FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20060208160601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
2006 Executive Compensation
On February 2, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Tesoro Corporation ("Tesoro" or the "Company") approved base salary increases effective February 5, 2006 and annual incentive bonus targets effective January 1, 2006 for the Company's named executive officers (as defined in Item 402 (a) (3) of Regulation S-K) and certain other executive officers. In addition, the Compensation Committee on February 2, 2006 approved long-term incentive awards for the Company's named executive officers and certain other key employees under the Amended and Restated Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan. The long-term incentive awards included stock options granted at an exercise price of $67.35 per share and restricted shares of our common stock. The awarded stock options and restricted shares vest ratably over a three-year period beginning in 2007. The following table summarizes the approved compensation for each of the Company's named executive officers.
Table of Contents
2006 Incentive Compensation Program
The Company's named executive officers, as well as other officers and employees of the Company, are eligible to participate in the 2006 Incentive Compensation Program (the "Program"). The Program's performance metrics were approved by the Compensation Committee on February 2, 2006. The performance metrics are: (i) cash flows from operations; (ii) total shareholder return relative to Tesoro's peer group; (iii) business improvement initiatives; (iv) safety and environmental goals; and (v) business unit/team goals. The performance period of the Program is one year through December 31, 2006.
2006 Long-Term Stock Appreciation Rights Plan
The Board of Directors approved the 2006 Long-Term Stock Appreciation Rights Plan (the "SAR Plan") on February 2, 2006. The SAR Plan permits the grant of stock appreciation rights ("SARs") to key managers and other employees of the Company. A SAR granted under the SAR Plan entitles an employee to receive cash in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of one share of common stock on the date of exercise over the grant price of the SAR. Unless otherwise specified, all SARs under the SAR Plan vest ratably during a three-year period following the date of grant. The term of a SAR granted under the SAR Plan shall be determined by the Compensation Committee provided that no SAR shall be exercisable on or after the tenth anniversary date of its grant. The SAR Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Executive Compensation Plan and Employment Agreement Amendments
On February 2, 2006 the Board of Directors approved amendments to certain of the Company's executive compensation plans and Employment Agreements between the Company and certain of its executive officers to, among other things, conform to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 which changed the income tax treatment of nonqualified deferred compensation and imposed new requirements on both the terms and operations of the plans and agreements under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The approved amendments also provide consistency between the terms of the Employment Agreements and the Amended and Restated Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "1993 Plan") and certain other of the Company's benefit plans. The amendments approved by the Board of Directors include the following:
1993 Plan
Executive Security Plan
Table of Contents
Employment Agreements
The Amended and Restated Executive Security Plan is effective as of January 1, 2005. The Amended and Restated 1993 Plan and the Employment Agreement Amendments are effective as of February 2, 2006. The Employment Agreements were amended for the following executive officers: (i) Bruce A. Smith, (ii) William J. Finnerty, (iii) Everett D. Lewis and (iv) Gregory A. Wright. The Amended and Restated Executive Security Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The Amended and Restated 1993 Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The form of the Employment Agreement Amendments are filed as Exhibits 10.4 through 10.7 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On February 2, 2006 Tesoro issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing that its Board of Directors had elected William J. Finnerty as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Finnerty was named Executive Vice President, Operations in January 2005. He joined Tesoro in 2003 as Vice President, Crude Oil and Logistics of Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company. Prior to joining Tesoro, Mr. Finnerty served in several capacities including, Vice President, Trading North America Crude for ChevronTexaco from October 2001 to November 2003, Vice President, Texaco Oil Trading and Transport Company from May 2001 to October 2001 and Senior Vice President, Trading and Operations for Equiva Trading Company from June 2000 to May 2001.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 8, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
Section
 
Section
 
     1.1 The Company hereby establishes a stock appreciation incentive compensation plan, to be known as "Tesoro Corporation 2006 Long-Term Stock Appreciation Rights Plan," as set forth in this document. The Plan permits the grant of Stock Appreciation Rights. The Plan shall become effective on the date the Plan is approved by the Board (the ""), and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3.
Establishment.
Effective Date
     1.2 The purpose of the Plan is to reward key managers and other employees of the Company and its Affiliates by enabling them to receive compensation based on the increase in value of the common stock of the Company. The Plan is intended to advance the best interests of the Company, its Affiliates and its stockholders by providing those persons who have substantial responsibility for the management and growth of the Company and its Affiliates with additional performance incentives, thereby encouraging them to continue in their employment with the Company and its Affiliates.
Purpose of the Plan.
     1.3 No Awards may be granted under the Plan on or after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. The applicable provisions of the Plan will continue in effect with respect to an Award granted under the Plan for as long as such Award remains outstanding.
Duration of Authority to Make Grants Under the Plan.
 
     The words and phrases defined in this Article shall have the meaning set out below throughout the Plan, unless the context in which any such word or phrase appears reasonably requires a broader, narrower or different meaning.
     2.1 "" means any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or association, trust or other entity or organization which, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company. For purposes of the preceding sentence, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any entity or organization, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power (a) to vote more than 50 percent (50%) of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of the controlled entity or organization, or (ii) to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the controlled entity or organization, whether through the ownership of voting securities or by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
     2.2 "" means a grant under the Plan of SARs subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan.
Award
     2.3 "" means an agreement that sets forth the terms and conditions applicable to an Award granted under the Plan.
Award Agreement
     2.4 "" means the board of directors of the Company.
Board
     2.5 "" means the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company
Chairman
     2.6 "" means (i) there shall be consummated (a) any consolidation or merger of Company in which Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of the Company's common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of the Company where a majority of the Board of Directors of the surviving corporation are, and for a one-year period after the merger continue to be, persons who were directors of the Company immediately prior to the merger or were elected as directors, or nominated for election as director, by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors of the Company immediately prior to the merger, or (b) any sale, lease, exchange or transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or (ii) the shareholders of the Company shall approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or (iii) (a) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or a subsidiary thereof or any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company or a subsidiary thereof, shall become the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13c-3 under the Exchange Act) of securities of the Company representing 35 percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing in special circumstances)
Change in Control
 
having the right to vote in the election of directors, as a result of a tender or exchange offer, open market purchases, privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, and (b) at any time during a period of one-year thereafter, individuals who immediately prior to the beginning of such period constituted the Board shall cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless the election or the nomination by the Board for election by the Company's shareholders of each new director during such period was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period.
     2.7 "" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
     2.8 "" means a committee of at least two persons, who are members of the Compensation Committee of the Board and are appointed by the Compensation Committee of the Board, or, to the extent it chooses to operate as the Committee, the Compensation Committee of the Board. Each member of the Committee in respect of his or her participation in any decision with respect to an Award intended to satisfy the requirements of section 162(m) of the Code must satisfy the requirements of "outside director" status within the meaning of section 162(m) of the Code; provided, however, that the failure to satisfy such requirement shall not affect the validity of the action of any committee otherwise duly authorized and acting in the matter.
Committee
     2.9 "" means Tesoro Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor (by reincorporation, merger or otherwise).
Company
     2.10 shall have the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 4.3(b).
"
Corporate Change
"
     2.11 "" means as determined by the Committee in its discretion exercised in good faith, a physical or mental condition of the Holder that would entitle him to payment of disability income payments under the Company's long-term disability insurance policy or plan for employees as then in effect; or in the event that the Holder is not covered, for whatever reason under the Company's long-term disability insurance policy or plan for employees or in the event the Company does not maintain such a long-term disability insurance policy, "Disability" means a permanent and total disability as defined in section 22(e)(3) of the Code. A determination of Disability may be made by a physician selected or approved by the Committee and, in this respect, the Holder shall submit to an examination by such physician upon request by the Committee.
Disability
     2.12 "" shall have the meaning ascribed to that term in Section 1.1.
Effective Date
     2.13 "" means a person employed by the Company or any Affiliate as a common law employee. The determination of whether a person is a common law employee shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Employee
     2.14 "" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
 
     2.15 "" of the Stock as of any particular date means (1) if the Stock is traded on a stock exchange, the closing sale price of the Stock on that date as reported on the principal securities exchange on which the Stock is traded, or (2) if the Stock is traded in the over-the-counter market, the average between the high bid and low asked price on that date as reported in such over-the-counter market; provided that (a) if the Stock is not so traded, (b) if no closing price or bid and asked prices for the stock was so reported on that date or (c) if, in the discretion of the Committee, another means of determining the fair market value of a share of Stock at such date shall be necessary or advisable, the Committee may provide for another means for determining such fair market value.
Fair Market Value
     2.16 "means the Company's fiscal year
Fiscal Year
"
.
     2.17 "" means a person who has been granted an Award.
Holder
     2.18 "means the amount the Company or an Affiliate is required to withhold for federal, state and local taxes based upon the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates required by the relevant tax authorities.
Minimum Statutory Tax Withholding Obligation"
     2.19 "" means Tesoro Corporation 2006 Long-Term Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, as set forth in this document and as it may be amended from time to time.
Plan
     2.20 "" means retirement in accordance with the terms of a retirement plan that is qualified under section 401(a) of the Code and maintained by the Company or an Affiliate in which the Holder is a participant.
Retirement
     2.21 "" means a stock appreciation right granted under the Plan pursuant to Article V.
SAR
     2.22 "" means section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury rules and regulations issued thereunder.
Section 409A
     2.23 "" means the common stock of the Company, $0.16/ par value per share (or such other par value as may be designated by act of the Company's stockholders).
Stock
2
3
     2.24 "" means the termination of the Award recipient's employment relationship with the Company and all Affiliates.
Termination of Employment
 
     3.1 The persons who are eligible to receive Awards under the Plan are Employees.
Eligibility.
     3.2 Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, and the approval of the Committee, the Chairman may, from time to time, select the Employees to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine the nature and amount of each Award.
Participation.
 
     4.1 The maximum aggregate amount with respect to which SARs may be awarded or credited to an Employee during a Fiscal Year may not exceed in value $1 million determined as of the date of grant. The foregoing numerical limit stated in this Section 4.1 shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.3.
Maximum Awards
.
     4.2 Except as specified in the applicable Award Agreements, Awards shall not be transferable by the Holder other than by will or under the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable, during the Holder's lifetime, only by him or her. In the discretion of the Committee, any attempt to transfer an Award other than under the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement may terminate the Award.
Non-Transferability
.
     4.3
Changes in the Company's Capital Structure.
     (a) The existence of outstanding Awards shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company, any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference shares ahead of or affecting the Stock or Stock rights, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.
     (b) If while unexercised Awards remain outstanding under the Plan (1) the Company shall not be the surviving entity in any merger, consolidation or other reorganization (or survives only as a subsidiary of an entity other than an entity that was wholly-owned by the Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or other reorganization), (2) the Company sells, leases or exchanges or agrees to sell, lease or exchange all or substantially all of its assets to any other person or entity (other than an entity wholly-owned by the Company), (3) the Company is to be dissolved or (4) the Company is a party to any other corporate transaction (as defined under section 424(a) of the Code and applicable Department of Treasury regulations) that is not described in clauses (1), (2) or (3) of this sentence (each such event is referred to herein as a ""), then, except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement (provided that such exceptions shall not apply in the case of a reincorporation merger), or as a result of the Committee's effectuation of one or more of the alternatives described below, there shall be no acceleration of the time at which any Award then outstanding may be exercised, and no later than ten days after the approval by the stockholders of the Company of such Corporate Change, the Committee, acting in its sole and absolute discretion without the consent or approval of any Holder, shall act to effect one or more of the following alternatives, which may vary among individual Holders and which may vary among Awards held by any individual Holder:
Corporate Change
 
     (1) accelerate the time at which some or all of the Awards then outstanding may be exercised so that such Awards may be exercised in full for a limited period of time on or before a specified date (before or after such Corporate Change) fixed by the Committee, after which specified date all such Awards that remain unexercised and all rights of Holders thereunder shall terminate;
     (2) require the mandatory surrender to the Company by all or selected Holders of some or all of the then outstanding Awards held by such Holders (irrespective of whether such Awards are then exercisable under the provisions of the Plan or the applicable Award Agreement evidencing such Award) as of a date, before or after such Corporate Change, specified by the Committee, in which event the Committee shall thereupon cancel such Award and the Company shall pay to each such Holder an amount of cash per share equal to the excess, if any, of the per share price offered to stockholders of the Company in connection with such Corporate Change over the exercise prices under such Award;
     (3) with respect to all or selected Holders, have some or all of their then outstanding Awards (whether vested or unvested) assumed or have a new award of a similar nature substituted for some or all of their then outstanding Awards under the Plan (whether vested or unvested) by an entity which is a party to the transaction resulting in such Corporate Change and which is then employing such Holder or which is affiliated or associated with such Holder in the same or a substantially similar manner as the Company prior to the Corporate Change, or a parent or subsidiary of such entity, provided that (A) such assumption or substitution is on a basis where the excess of the aggregate fair market value of the Stock subject to the Award immediately after the assumption or substitution over the aggregate exercise price of such Stock is equal to the excess of the aggregate fair market value of all Stock subject to the Award immediately before such assumption or substitution over the aggregate exercise price of such Stock, and (B) the assumed rights under such existing Award or the substituted rights under such new Award as the case may be will have the same terms and conditions as the rights under the existing Award assumed or substituted for, as the case may be;
     (4) provide that the number and class or series of Stock covered by an Award (whether vested or unvested) theretofore granted shall be adjusted so that such Award when exercised shall thereafter cover the number and class or series of Stock or other securities or property (including, without limitation, cash) to which the Holder would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the agreement or plan relating to such Corporate Change if, immediately prior to such Corporate Change, the Holder had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Stock then covered by such Award; or
 
     (5) make such adjustments to Awards then outstanding as the Committee deems appropriate to reflect such Corporate Change (provided, however, that the Committee may determine in its sole and absolute discretion that no such adjustment is necessary).
     In effecting one or more of alternatives in (3), (4) or (5) immediately above, and except as otherwise may be provided in an Award Agreement, the Committee, in its sole and absolute discretion and without the consent or approval of any Holder, may accelerate the time at which some or all Awards then outstanding may be exercised.
     (c) In the event of changes in the outstanding Stock by reason of recapitalizations, reorganizations, mergers, consolidations, combinations, exchanges or other relevant changes in capitalization occurring after the date of the grant of any Award and not otherwise provided for by this Section 4.3, any outstanding Award and any Award Agreements evidencing such Award shall be subject to adjustment by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion as to the number and price of Stock or other consideration subject to such Award.
     4.4 Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement, if the Committee finds by a majority vote that a Holder, before or after his Termination of Employment (a) committed a fraud, embezzlement, theft, felony or an act of dishonesty in the course of his employment by the Company or an Affiliate which conduct damaged the Company or an Affiliate or (b) disclosed trade secrets of the Company or an Affiliate, then as of the date the Committee makes its finding, any Awards awarded to the Holder that have not been exercised by the Holder (including all Awards that have not yet vested) will be forfeited to the Company. The findings and decision of the Committee with respect to such matter, including those regarding the acts of the Holder and the damage done to the Company, will be final for all purposes. No decision of the Committee, however, will affect the finality of the discharge of the individual by the Company or an Affiliate.
Forfeiture for Cause.
     4.5 The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Holder's rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events may include, but shall not be limited to, Termination of Employment for cause, termination of the Holder's provision of services to the Company or its Affiliates, violation of material policies of the Company and its Affiliates, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality, or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Holder, or other conduct by the Holder that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company and its Affiliates.
Forfeiture Events.
     4.6 Awards shall be designed and operated in such manner that they are either exempt from application of, or comply with, the requirements of Code section 409A.
Compliance with Section 409A.
 
     5.1 Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan and the approval the Committee, the Chairman at any time, and from time to time, may grant SARs under the Plan to those Employees in such number and upon such terms as the Chairman shall determine and the Committee shall approve. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, and the approval of the Committee, the Chairman shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Holder and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.
Authority to Grant SAR Awards.
     5.2 Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a SAR granted under the Plan shall confer on the recipient a right to receive, upon exercise thereof, an amount equal to the excess of (a) the Fair Market Value of one share of the Stock on the date of exercise over (b) the grant price of the SAR, which shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of one share of the Stock on the date of grant of the SAR. Unless otherwise specified in an individual Award Agreement, all SARs under the Plan shall vest during a three-year period following the grant, with one-third of the SARs granted becoming exercisable on each of the first, second and third anniversary of the date of its grant. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may approve the acceleration of vesting in response to specified events, provided no Award vests earlier than six months after the date of grant.
General Terms.
     5.3 Each Award of SARs granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify (a) the grant price of the SAR, (b) the term of the SAR, (c) the vesting and termination provisions of the SAR and (d) such other provisions as the Committee shall determine that are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan. The Committee may impose such additional conditions or restrictions on the exercise of any SAR as it may deem appropriate.
SAR Agreement.
     5.4 The term of a SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion; provided that no SAR shall be exercisable on or after the tenth anniversary date of its grant.
Term of SAR.
     5.5 A SAR may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes.
Exercise of SAR.
     5.6 Upon the exercise of a SAR, a Holder shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise over the grant price of the SAR by the number of shares of Stock with respect to which the SAR is exercised. Unless otherwise specified in an individual Award Agreement, payment upon SAR exercise shall be in cash, and under no circumstances shall a Holder receive payment in Stock, nor shall he or she have the ability to defer any payment from the exercise of SARs to any other qualified or nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
Payment of SAR Amount.
 
     5.7 Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if a Holder's employment with the Company terminates for any reason noted in this Section 5.7, any SARs that are either vested but unexercised or unvested at the time of termination shall be subject to the following provisions:
Termination of Employment.
     (a) Retirement. If the Holder terminates employment by reason of Retirement, all vested Awards must be exercised on or before the earlier of the date of expiration or the third anniversary of the date of Retirement. All unvested Awards shall be forfeited unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, approves the acceleration of vesting.
     (b) Death or Disability. If the Holder terminates employment by reason of death or Disability, all vested Awards must be exercised on or before the earlier of the date of expiration or the first anniversary of the date of termination. All unvested Awards shall be forfeited unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, approves the acceleration of vesting.
     (c) Death following termination by Disability or Retirement. The exercise period will be equal to the longer of one year following death or the remaining portion of the exercise period.
     (d) Termination by Company "for cause." If the Holder is terminated by the Company, all Awards shall be forfeited pursuant to Section 4.4.
     (e) Termination for any other reasons. If the Holder terminates employment for any reason other than those noted above, vested Awards must be exercised on or before the earlier of the date of expiration or three months following the date of termination. All unvested Awards shall be forfeited unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, approves the acceleration of vesting.
 
     6.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee or, in the absence of the Committee, the Plan shall be administered by the Board. The members of the Committee shall serve at the discretion of the Board. The Committee shall have full and exclusive power and authority to administer the Plan and to take all actions that the Plan expressly contemplates or are necessary or appropriate in connection with the administration of the Plan with respect to Awards granted under the Plan.
Awards.
     6.2 The Committee shall have full and exclusive power to interpret and apply the terms and provisions of the Plan and Awards made under the Plan, and to adopt such rules, regulations and guidelines for implementing the Plan as the Committee may deem necessary or proper, all of which powers shall be exercised in the best interests of the Company and in keeping with the objectives of the Plan. A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the vote of a majority of those members present at any meeting shall decide any question brought before that meeting. Any decision or determination reduced to writing and signed by a majority of the members shall be as effective as if it had been made by a majority vote at a meeting properly called and held. All questions of interpretation and application of the Plan, or as to award granted under the Plan, shall be subject to the determination, which shall be final and binding, of a majority of the whole Committee. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any act or omission of any other member of the Committee or for any act or omission on his own part, including but not limited to the exercise of any power or discretion given to him under the Plan, except those resulting from his own gross negligence or willful misconduct. In carrying out its authority under the Plan, the Committee shall have full and final authority and discretion, including but not limited to the following rights, powers and authorities, to:
Authority of the Committee.
     (a) approve the determination of the Chairman of the persons to whom and the time or times at which Awards will be made;
     (b) determine the number and exercise price of the SAR covered in each Award, subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan;
     (c) determine the terms, provisions and conditions of each Award, which need not be identical and need not match the default terms set forth in the Plan;
     (d) accelerate the time at which any outstanding Award will vest;
     (e) prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to administration of the Plan; and
     (f) make all other determinations and take all other actions deemed necessary, appropriate or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan.
     The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award to a Holder in the manner and to the extent the
 
Committee deems necessary or desirable to further the Plan's objectives. Further, the Committee shall make all other determinations that may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. As permitted by law and the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee may delegate its authority as identified in Section 6.3.
     The actions of the Committee in exercising all of the rights, powers, and authorities set out in this Article VI and all other Articles of the Plan, when performed in good faith and in its sole judgment, shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other persons, any of whom may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and Board shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons.
     6.3 All determinations and decisions made by the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders and resolutions of the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, Employees, Holders and the estates and beneficiaries of Employees and Holders.
Decisions Binding.
     6.4 Under no circumstances shall the Company, the Board or the Committee incur liability for any indirect, incidental, consequential or special damages (including lost profits) of any form incurred by any person, whether or not foreseeable and regardless of the form of the act in which such a claim may be brought, with respect to the Plan or the Company's, the Committee's or the Board's roles in connection with the Plan.
No Liability.
 
     7.1 . Subject to Section 7.2 the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or in part.
Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination
     7.2 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification of the Plan or an Award Agreement shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Holder holding such Award.
Awards Previously Granted
 
     8.1 Holders shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company or any of its Affiliates may make to aid in meeting obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Holder, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts, except as expressly set forth in the Plan. No property shall be set aside nor shall a trust fund of any kind be established to secure the rights of any Holder under the Plan. All Holders shall at all times rely solely upon the general credit of the Company for the payment of any benefit which becomes payable under the Plan. The Plan is not intended to be subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Unfunded Plan/No Establishment of a Trust Fund.
     8.2 The granting of any Award shall not constitute an employment contract, express or implied, nor impose upon the Company or any Affiliate any obligation to employ or continue to employ, or utilize the services of, any Holder. The right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate the employment of any person shall not be diminished or affected by reason of the fact that an Award has been granted to him, and nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or its Affiliates to terminate any Holder's employment at any time or for any reason not prohibited by law.
No Employment Obligation.
     8.3 The Company or any Affiliate shall be entitled to deduct from other compensation payable to each Holder any sums required by federal, state or local tax law (or such greater amount as the Holder may elect) to be withheld with respect to the vesting or exercise of an Award. In the alternative, the Company may require the Holder (or other person validly exercising the Award) to pay such sums (or such greater amount as the Holder may elect) for taxes directly to the Company or any Affiliate in cash or by check within one day after the date of vesting, exercise. The Company shall have no obligation upon vesting or exercise of any Award until the Company or an Affiliate has received payment sufficient to cover the Minimum Statutory Tax Withholding Obligation with respect to that vesting or exercise. Neither the Company nor any Affiliate shall be obligated to advise a Holder of the existence of the tax or the amount which it will be required to withhold.
Tax Withholding.
     8.4 Each Award shall be embodied in a written or electronic agreement or statement which shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Award Agreement shall be signed, written or electronically, by a member of the Committee on behalf of the Committee and the Company or by an executive officer of the Company, other than the Holder, on behalf of the Company, and may be signed, written or electronically, by the Holder to the extent required by the Committee. The Award Agreement may specify the effect
Written Agreement.
 
of a Change in Control on the Award. The Award Agreement may contain any other provisions that the Committee in its discretion shall deem advisable which are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan. "Electronic agreement" means an agreement created, generated, sent, communicated, received or stored by electronic means. An electronic signature shall be accomplished by an electronic symbol or process attached to or logically associated with an electronic agreement and executed or adopted by a person with intent to sign the agreement.
     8.5 The Company shall indemnify each present and future member of the Committee against, and each member of the Committee shall be entitled without further action on his or her part to indemnity from the Company for, all expenses (including attorney's fees, the amount of judgments and the amount of approved settlements made with a view to the curtailment of costs of litigation, other than amounts paid to the Company itself) reasonably incurred by such member in connection with or arising out of any action, suit or proceeding in which such member may be involved by reason of such member being or having been a member of the Committee, whether or not he or she continues to be a member of the Committee at the time of incurring the expenses, including, without limitation, matters as to which such member shall be finally adjudged in any action, suit or proceeding to have been negligent in the performance of such member's duty as a member of the Committee. However, this indemnity shall not include any expenses incurred by any member of the Committee in respect of matters as to which such member shall be finally adjudged in any action, suit or proceeding to have been guilty of gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of his duty as a member of the Committee. In addition, no right of indemnification under the Plan shall be available to or enforceable by any member of the Committee unless, within 60 days after institution of any action, suit or proceeding, such member shall have offered the Company, in writing, the opportunity to handle and defend same at its own expense. This right of indemnification shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors or administrators of each member of the Committee and shall be in addition to all other rights to which a member of the Committee may be entitled as a matter of law, contract or otherwise.
Indemnification of the Committee.
     8.6 If the context requires, words of one gender when used in the Plan shall include the other and words used in the singular or plural shall include the other.
Gender and Number.
     8.7 . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
     8.8 Headings of Articles and Sections are included for convenience of reference only and do not constitute part of the Plan and shall not be used in construing the terms and provisions of the Plan.
Headings.
     8.9 The adoption of the Plan shall not affect any other option, incentive or other compensation or benefit plans in effect for the Company or any Affiliate, nor shall the Plan preclude the Company from establishing any other forms of
Other Compensation Plans.
 
incentive compensation arrangements for Employees. In addition, payments made from the exercise of SARs shall not be included as compensation or earnings used in calculating any benefit from any retirement, life insurance, disability or annual bonus plans in effect for the Company or any Affiliate.
     8.10 The grant of an Award shall not confer upon the Holder the right to receive any future or other Awards under the Plan, whether or not Awards may be granted to similarly situated Holders, or the right to receive future Awards upon the same terms or conditions as previously granted.
Other Awards.
     8.11 All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Successors.
     8.12 . The granting of Awards under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies as may be required.
Law Limitations/Governmental Approvals
     8.13 Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company or any of its Affiliates operates or has Employees, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to:
Persons Residing Outside of the United States.
     (a) determine which Affiliates shall be covered by the Plan;
     (b) determine which persons employed outside the United States are eligible to participate in the Plan;
     (c) amend or vary the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of any Award granted to persons who reside outside the United States;
     (d) establish subplans and modify exercise procedures and other terms and procedures to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable  any subplans and modifications to Plan terms and procedures established under this Section 8.13 by the Committee shall be attached to the Plan document as Appendices; and
     (e) take any action, before or after an Award is made, that it deems advisable to obtain or comply with any necessary local government regulatory exemptions or approvals.
     Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted, that would violate the Exchange Act, the Code, any securities law or governing statute or any other applicable law.
     8.14 Any controversy arising out of or relating to the Plan or an Option Agreement shall be resolved by arbitration conducted pursuant to the arbitration
Arbitration of Disputes.
 
rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration shall be final and binding on the parties.
     8.15 The provisions of the Plan and the rights of all persons claiming thereunder shall be construed, administered and governed under the laws of the State of Texas.
Governing Law.
 
     this Plan has been executed effective the 2nd day of February, 2006.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
TESORO CORPORATION
By: /s/ Bruce A. Smith                Title: Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and           Chief Executive Officer

 
Exhibit 10.2
 
The principal objective of this Amended and Restated Executive Security Plan (the "Plan") is to ensure the payment of a competitive level of retirement income in order to attract, retain and motivate selected executives. The plan is designed to provide a benefit which, when added to other retirement income of the executive, will meet the objective described above. This Plan is a complete amendment and restatement of the Plan originally established as a restatement and amendment of the Tesoro Executive Post Retirement Benefit Plan and Tesoro Executive Death Benefit Plan. The Plan, as amended and restated is intended to conform to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code with regard to amounts not earned and vested as of December 31, 2004. With regard to those amounts earned and vested as of December 31, 2004, there is intended to be no material modifications to those grandfathered benefits and the terms of the Plan in effect immediately prior to the Amended and Restated Executive Security Plan shall govern grandfathered benefits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.3
Article 1. Establishment, Purpose, and Duration
Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:
 
 
 
 
Article 3. Administration
 
Article 4. Shares Subject to the Plan
 
Article 5. Eligibility and Participation
Article 6. Stock Options
 
6.8 Termination of Employment Due to Death, Disability, or Retirement.
 
 
.
Article 7
Stock Appreciation Rights
 
     At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in
 
 
 
Article 8. Restricted Stock
"The sale or other transfer of the Shares of stock represented by this certificate, whether voluntary, involuntary, or by operation of law, is subject to certain restrictions on transfer as set forth in the Tesoro Petroleum Corporation Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan, and in a Restricted Stock Agreement. A copy of the Plan and such Restricted Stock Agreement may be obtained from Tesoro Petroleum Corporation."
 
 
Article 9. Performance Units and Performance Shares
 
Article 10. Beneficiary Designation
Each Participant under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named-contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit. Each such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant's lifetime. In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
Article 11. [ Reserved]
Article 12. Rights of Employees
 
Article 13. Change In Control
Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, unless otherwise specifically prohibited by the terms of Section 18 herein:
Article 14. Amendment, Modification, and Termination
 
Article 15. Withholding
     The Insider must either:
(a) Awards Having Exercise Timing Within Participants' Discretion.
 
Article 16. Indemnification
Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf.
The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
.
Article 17. Successors
All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Article 18. Legal Construction
 

 
Exhibit 10.4
     This First Amendment (the "Amendment") is entered into as of , 2006 (the "Effective Date") as an amendment to the Amended and Restated Employment Agreement entered into by and between Tesoro Corporation (the "Company") and Bruce A. Smith (the "Executive") as of December 3, 2003 (the "Employment Agreement"),
                    
     , the Company and Executive have previously entered into the Employment Agreement; and
WHEREAS
     , the Company and Executive wish to amend the Employment Agreement by entering into this Amendment so as to (i) allow for extended exercise rights for stock options granted to the Executive in certain circumstances; (ii) effectuate certain changes to conform the Employment Agreement to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"); (iii) modify the provision of certain post-termination benefits; and (iv) provide certain payments in lieu of vesting under the Company's qualified retirement plans;
WHEREAS
     in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and conditions set forth herein, including but not limited to Executive's employment and the payments and benefits described herein, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Executive hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
     1. Section 4 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the first paragraph of subsection (f) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (f) . Executive (or his current spouse, Gail H. Smith, that survives Executive) shall be entitled to the Supplemental Annual Retirement Benefit payable by the Company set forth below (the
SUPPLEMENTAL ANNUAL RETIREMENT BENEFIT
 
"Supplemental Annual Retirement Benefit"). The first applicable Supplemental Annual Retirement Benefit shall become payable upon the termination of Executive's employment with the Company, and such Supplemental Annual Retirement Benefit shall be payable each year to Executive through the remainder of his life in quarterly calendar installments (with a prorated initial installment if necessary), with a 50% right of survivorship. The initial Supplemental Annual Retirement Benefit shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment.
     2. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (b) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (b) . In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Total Disability as determined in accordance with Section 5(b), the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
TERMINATION IN THE EVENT OF TOTAL DISABILITY
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period. Executive shall also be eligible for a pro-rata bonus of incentive compensation payment to the extent such awards are made to senior executives for the year in which Executive is terminated; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (ii) Any benefits to which Executive my be entitled pursuant to the plans, policies and arrangements (including those referred to in Section 4(f) hereof) shall be determined and paid in accordance with the terms of such plans, policies and arrangements;
          (iii) An amount equal to the Base Salary (at the rate in effect as of the date of Executive's Total Disability) which would have been payable to Executive if Executive had continued in active employment for two (2) years following termination of employment, less any payments under any long-term disability plan or arrangement paid for by the Company. Payment shall be made at the same time and in the same manner as such compensation would have been paid if Executive had remained in active employment until the end of such period, but shall not commence until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (iv) As of the date of termination by reason of Executive's Total Disability, Executive shall be fully vested in all stock option awards and the Restricted Stock Grant and Executive shall have up to one (1) year from the date of termination by reason of total disability to exercise all such options; and
 
          (v) As otherwise specifically provided herein.
     3. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (i) of subparagraph (c) and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
     4. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (i) of subparagraph (d) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
     5. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting subsection (e) thereof in its entirety and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
     (e) . In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for reasons other than death, Total Disability or Cause, or Executive terminates his employment for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY WITHOUT CAUSE; TERMINATION BY EXECUTIVE FOR GOOD REASON
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination, and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided however, that such earned but unpaid bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (ii) Any benefits to which Executive may be entitled pursuant to the plans, policies and arrangements referred to in Section 4(f) hereof shall be determined and paid in accordance with the terms of such plans, policies and arrangements;
 
          (iii) An amount equal to two times' the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus his Target Annual Bonus (in each case as then in effect), of which one-half shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months after such termination and one-half shall be paid during the two (2) year period beginning as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months after the date of Executive's termination and shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner as Base Salary would have been paid if Executive had remained in active employment until the end of such period;
          (iv) The Company at its expense will continue for Executive and Executive's spouse and dependent, all health benefit plans, programs or arrangements, whether group or individual, in which Executive was entitled to participate at any time during the twelve-month period prior to the date of termination; but only to the extent such arrangements are available to the Company's retirees; and for these purposes, Executive will for purposes of this paragraph 6(e)(iv) be considered a retiree regardless of whether he would otherwise qualify as one; and only until the earliest to occur of (A) two and one-half years after the date of termination; (B) Executive's death (provided that benefits payable to Executive's beneficiaries shall not terminate upon Executive's death); or (C) with respect to any particular plan, program or arrangement, the date Executive becomes covered by a comparable benefit by a subsequent employer;
          (v) Except to the extent prohibited by law, and except as otherwise provided herein, Executive will be 100% vested in all benefits, awards, and grants accrued but unpaid as of the date of termination under any supplemental and/or incentive compensation plans in which Executive was a participant as of the date of termination. Executive shall also be eligible for a bonus or incentive compensation payment, at the same time, on the same basis, and to the same extent payments are made to senior executive, pro-rated for the fiscal year in which the Executive is terminated; provided, however, that such payment of bonus or incentive compensation will be made as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months from the Executive's termination from employment with the Company;
          (vi) Executive shall continue to vest in all stock option awards or restricted stock awards over the two (2) year period commencing on the date of such termination of employment. Executive shall have two (2) years and six (6) months after the date of termination of employment to exercise all options, unless by virtue of the particular stock option award, the option grant expires on an earlier date; and
          (vii) As otherwise specifically provided herein.
 
     6. Section 7 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (a) in its entirety and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
     (a) . In the event a "Change in Control" occurs and before the end of the second year after such Change in Control, Executive's employment is terminated within two (2) years following such Change in Control by the Company for any reason other than for Cause, or by Executive for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
PAYMENTS FOLLOWING A CHANGE IN CONTROL
          (i) An amount equal to three times the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus his Target Annual Bonus (in each case as then in effect) payable in a lump sum six (6) months following termination of employment. if the Executive's employment with the company is terminated for any reason other than Cause on or after the date of the Change in Control, then (A) the amount provided in this Section 7(a)(i) shall be in lieu of any amounts otherwise due to the Executive under Section 6(e)(iii), and (B) benefits shall be continued for the period provided in Section 6(e)(iv), or for three years following the Change in Control, whichever provides the longer continuation period.
          (ii) Executive will be 100% vested in all benefits, awards, and grants (including stock option grants and stock awards, all of such stock options remaining exercisable for a period of at least three (3) years following the Change in Control) accrued but unpaid as of the Change in Control under any non-qualified pension plan, supplemental and/or incentive compensation or bonus plans, in which Executive was a participant as of the date of the Change in Control and will be fully vested in the $700,000 retirement benefit provided under Section 4(f) hereof. Executive shall also receive a bonus or incentive compensation payment (the "Bonus payment") equal to 250% of his then Base Salary, pro-rated as of the effective date of the termination. The bonus payment shall be payable six (6) months following termination of employment.
          Subject to Executive's right to terminate for Good Reason, which Executive shall fully retain, Executive agrees to continue to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Company for at least a one-year period following a Change in Control before exercising Executive's right to receive compensation payable following a Change in Control pursuant to this Section 7(a)
     For purposes of this Agreement, following a Change in Control, the term "Company" shall include the entity surviving such Change in Control.
     7. Section 7 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting subparagraph (c) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
 
     (c) means (i) there shall be consummated (A) any consolidation or merger of Company in which Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of Company's Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of Company where a majority of the Board of Directors of the surviving corporation are, and for a one-year period after the merger continue to be, persons who were directors of Company immediately prior to the merger or were elected as directors, or nominate for election as director, by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors of Company immediately prior to the merger, or (B) any sale, lease, exchange or transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of Company, or (ii) the shareholders of Company shall approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of Company, or (iii) (A) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Act), other than Company or a subsidiary thereof or any employee benefit plan sponsored by Company or a subsidiary thereof, shall become the beneficiary owner (within the meaning of Rule 13c-3 under the Securities Act) of securities of Company representing 35 percent or more of the combined voting power of Company's then outstanding securities ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing in special circumstances) having the right to vote in the election of directors, as a result of a tender or exchange offer, open market purchases, privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, and (B) at any time during a period of one-year thereafter, individuals who immediately prior to the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of Company shall cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless election or the nomination by the Board of Directors for election by Company's shareholders of each new director during such period was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period.
CHANGE IN CONTROL
     8. Section 19 of the Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following subsection (f) to read as follows:
     (f) This Agreement is intended to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and may be administered in a manner that is intended to meet those requirements and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. To the extent that an award or payment, or the settlement or deferral thereof, is subject to Section 409A of the Code, except as the Committee otherwise determines in writing, the award shall be granted, paid, settled or deferred in a manner that will meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including regulations or other guidance issued with respect thereto, such that the grant, payment, settlement or deferral shall not be subject to the excise tax applicable under Section 409A of the Code. Any provision of this Agreement that would cause the award or the payment, settlement or deferral thereof to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall be amended (in a manner that as closely as practicable achieves the original intent of this Agreement) to comply with Section 409A of the Code on a timely basis, which may be made on a retroactive basis, in accordance with regulations and other guidance issued
Deferred Compensation.
 
under Section 409A of the Code. In the event additional regulations or other guidance is issued under Section 409A of the Code or a court of competent jurisdiction provides additional authority concerning the application of Section 409A with respect to the payments described in Sections 4 and 6 of the Agreement, then the provisions of such Sections shall be amended to permit such payments to be made at the earliest time permitted under such additional regulations, guidance or authority that is practicable and achieves the original intent of this Agreement.
     , the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.5
     This First Amendment (the "Amendment") is entered into as of , 2006 (the "Effective Date") as an amendment to the Employment Agreement entered into by and between Tesoro Corporation (the "Company") and William J. Finnerty (the "Executive") as of February 2, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement"),
                    
     , the Company and Executive have previously entered into the Employment Agreement; and
WHEREAS
     , the Company and Executive wish to amend the Employment Agreement by entering into this Amendment so as to (i) allow for extended exercise rights for stock options granted to the Executive in certain circumstances; (ii) effectuate certain changes to conform the Employment Agreement to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"); (iii) modify the provision of certain post-termination benefits; and (iv) provide certain payments in lieu of vesting under the Company's qualified retirement plans;
WHEREAS
     in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and conditions set forth herein, including but not limited to Executive's employment and the payments and benefits described herein, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Executive hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
     1. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (b) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (b) . In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Total
TERMINATION IN THE EVENT OF TOTAL DISABILITY
 
Disability as determined in accordance with Section 5(b), the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period. Executive shall also be eligible for a pro-rata bonus of incentive compensation payment to the extent such awards are made to senior executives for the year in which Executive is terminated; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (ii) Any benefits to which Executive my be entitled pursuant to the plans, policies and arrangements (including those referred to in Section 4(f) hereof) shall be determined and paid in accordance with the terms of such plans, policies and arrangements;
          (iii) An amount equal to the Base Salary (at the rate in effect as of the date of Executive's Total Disability) which would have been payable to Executive if Executive had continued in active employment for one (1) year following termination of employment, less any payments under any long-term disability plan or arrangement paid for by the Company. Payment shall be made at the same time and in the same manner as such compensation would have been paid if Executive had remained in active employment until the end of such period, but shall not commence until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (iv) As of the date of termination by reason of Executive's Total Disability, Executive shall be fully vested in all stock option awards and the Restricted Stock Grant and Executive shall have up to one (1) year from the date of termination by reason of total disability to exercise all such options; and
          (v) As otherwise specifically provided herein.
     2. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (i) of subparagraph (c) and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
 
     3. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (i) of subparagraph (d) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
     4. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting subsection (e) thereof in its entirety and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (e) . In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for reasons other than death, Total Disability or Cause, or Executive terminates his employment for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY WITHOUT CAUSE; TERMINATION BY EXECUTIVE FOR GOOD REASON
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination, and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided however, that such earned but unpaid bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (ii) Any benefits to which Executive may be entitled pursuant to the plans, policies and arrangements referred to in Section 4(f) hereof shall be determined and paid in accordance with the terms of such plans, policies and arrangements;
          (iii) An amount equal to two times' the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus his Target Annual Bonus (in each case as then in effect), of which one-half shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months after such termination and one-half shall be paid during the two (2) year period beginning as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months after the date of Executive's termination and shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner as Base Salary would have been paid if Executive had remained in active employment until the end of such period;
          (iv) The Company at its expense will continue for Executive and Executive's spouse and dependent, all health benefit plans, programs or arrangements, whether group or individual, in which Executive was entitled to
 
participate at any time during the twelve-month period prior to the date of termination; but only to the extent such arrangements are available to the Company's retirees; and for these purposes, Executive will for purposes of this paragraph 6(e)(iv) be considered a retiree regardless of whether he would otherwise qualify as one; and only until the earliest to occur of (A) two and one-half years after the date of termination; (B) Executive's death (provided that benefits payable to Executive's beneficiaries shall not terminate upon Executive's death); or (C) with respect to any particular plan, program or arrangement, the date Executive becomes covered by a comparable benefit by a subsequent employer;
          (v) Except to the extent prohibited by law, and except as otherwise provided herein, Executive will be 100% vested in all benefits, awards, and grants accrued but unpaid as of the date of termination under any supplemental and/or incentive compensation plans in which Executive was a participant as of the date of termination. Executive shall also be eligible for a bonus or incentive compensation payment, at the same time, on the same basis, and to the same extent payments are made to senior executive, pro-rated for the fiscal year in which the Executive is terminated; provided, however, that such payment of bonus or incentive compensation will be made as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months from the Executive's termination from employment with the Company;
          (vi) In the event Executive is not otherwise vested in the Company's qualified defined benefit or defined contribution retirement plans, Executive will receive a lump sum payment (on an after-tax basis) equivalent to the difference between the value of his accrued benefit under the Company's qualified defined contribution and defined benefit plans as of the date of his termination of employment and the value of his accrued benefit under those qualified retirement plans had he been vested 100% in those accrued benefits as of the date of his termination of employment. Such payment will be made as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months from the Executive's termination of employment with the Company;
          (vii) Subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable executive long-term incentive plans governing the option awards or restricted stock awards, Executive shall continue to vest in all stock option awards or restricted stock awards over the two (2) year period commencing on the date of such termination of employment. With respect to option awards granted to Executive after the effective date of the Employment Agreement, Executive shall have two (2) years after the date of termination of employment to exercise all options, unless by virtue of the particular stock option award, the option grant expires on an earlier date; and
          (viii) As otherwise specifically provided herein.
 
     5. Section 7 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (a) in its entirety and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, should Employee at any time within two (2) years of a change in control cease to be an employee of the Company (or its successor), by reason of (i) involuntary termination by the Company (or its successor) other than for "Cause", or (ii) voluntary termination by Employee for "Good Reason", the Company (or its successor shall pay to Employee except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months from such termination of employment the following severance payments and benefits;
PAYMENTS FOLLOWING A CHANGE IN CONTROL
          (i) An amount equal to three (3) times the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus his Target Annual Bonus (in each case as then in effect) payable in a lump sump within five (5) days following the date the Executive ceases to be Executive Vice President, Operations of the Company. Payment of the amount specified under this Paragraph 7(a)(i) shall be in lieu of any amount payable under Paragraph 6(b)(iii) or Paragraph 6(e)(iii).
          (ii) Executive will receive three (3) years additional service credit under the current non-qualified supplemental pension plans, or successors thereto, of the Company applicable to the Executive.
          (iii) Executive will be 100% vested in all benefits, awards, and grants (including stock option grants and stock awards, all of such stock options granted after this Amendment remaining exercisable for a period of at least three (3) years following the Change in Control) accrued but unpaid as of the Change in Control under any non-qualified pension plan, supplemental and/or incentive compensation or bonus plans, in which Executive shall also receive a bonus or incentive compensation payment (the "bonus payment") equal to his Base Salary multiplied by his annual incentive target bonus percentage, each as then in effect, pro-rated as of the effective date of the termination. The bonus payment shall be payable within five (5) days following the date the Executive ceases to be Executive Vice President of the Company, and shall be in lieu of any bonus the Employee would otherwise be entitled to receive under Paragraph 6(b)(i) or Paragraph 6(e)(v).
     For purposes of this Agreement, following a Change in Control, the term "Company" shall include the entity surviving such Change in Control.
     6. Section 7 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting subparagraph (c) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
 
      (c) means (i) there shall be consummated (A) any consolidation or merger of Company in which Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of Company's Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of Company where a majority of the Board of Directors of the surviving corporation are, and for a one-year period after the merger continue to be, persons who were directors of Company immediately prior to the merger or were elected as directors, or nominate for election as director, by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors of Company immediately prior to the merger, or (B) any sale, lease, exchange or transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of Company, or (ii) the shareholders of Company shall approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of Company, or (iii) (A) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Act), other than Company or a subsidiary thereof or any employee benefit plan sponsored by Company or a subsidiary thereof, shall become the beneficiary owner (within the meaning of Rule 13c-3 under the Securities Act) of securities of Company representing 35 percent or more of the combined voting power of Company's then outstanding securities ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing in special circumstances) having the right to vote in the election of directors, as a result of a tender or exchange offer, open market purchases, privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, and (B) at any time during a period of one-year thereafter, individuals who immediately prior to the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of Company shall cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless election or the nomination by the Board of Directors for election by Company's shareholders of each new director during such period was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period.
CHANGE IN CONTROL
     7. Section 19 of the Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following subsection (f) to read as follows:
      (f) This Agreement is intended to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and may be administered in a manner that is intended to meet those requirements and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. To the extent that an award or payment, or the settlement or deferral thereof, is subject to Section 409A of the Code, except as the Committee otherwise determines in writing, the award shall be granted, paid, settled or deferred in a manner that will meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including regulations or other guidance issued with respect thereto, such that the grant, payment, settlement or deferral shall not be subject to the excise tax applicable under Section 409A of the Code. Any provision of this Agreement that would cause the award or the payment, settlement or deferral thereof to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall be amended (in a manner that as closely as practicable achieves the original intent of this Agreement) to comply with Section 409A of the Code on a timely basis, which may be made on a retroactive basis, in accordance with regulations and other guidance issued
Deferred Compensation.
 
under Section 409A of the Code. In the event additional regulations or other guidance is issued under Section 409A of the Code or a court of competent jurisdiction provides additional authority concerning the application of Section 409A with respect to the payments described in Sections 4 and 6 of the Agreement, then the provisions of such Sections shall be amended to permit such payments to be made at the earliest time permitted under such additional regulations, guidance or authority that is practicable and achieves the original intent of this Agreement.
     , the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.6
     This First Amendment (the "Amendment") is entered into as of , 2006 (the "Effective Date") as an amendment to the Employment Agreement entered into by and between Tesoro Corporation (the "Company") and Everett D. Lewis (the "Executive") as of February 2, 2005 (the "Employment Agreement"),
                    
     , the Company and Executive have previously entered into the Employment Agreement; and
WHEREAS
     , the Company and Executive wish to amend the Employment Agreement by entering into this Amendment so as to (i) allow for extended exercise rights for stock options granted to the Executive in certain circumstances; (ii) effectuate certain changes to conform the Employment Agreement to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"); (iii) modify the provision of certain post-termination benefits; and (iv) provide certain payments in lieu of vesting under the Company's qualified retirement plans;
WHEREAS
     in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and conditions set forth herein, including but not limited to Executive's employment and the payments and benefits described herein, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Executive hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
     1. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (b) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (b) . In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Total Disability as determined in accordance with Section 5(b), the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
TERMINATION IN THE EVENT OF TOTAL DISABILITY
 
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period. Executive shall also be eligible for a pro-rata bonus of incentive compensation payment to the extent such awards are made to senior executives for the year in which Executive is terminated; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (ii) Any benefits to which Executive my be entitled pursuant to the plans, policies and arrangements (including those referred to in Section 4(f) hereof) shall be determined and paid in accordance with the terms of such plans, policies and arrangements;
          (iii) An amount equal to the Base Salary (at the rate in effect as of the date of Executive's Total Disability) which would have been payable to Executive if Executive had continued in active employment for one (1) year following termination of employment, less any payments under any long-term disability plan or arrangement paid for by the Company. Payment shall be made at the same time and in the same manner as such compensation would have been paid if Executive had remained in active employment until the end of such period, but shall not commence until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (iv) As of the date of termination by reason of Executive's Total Disability, Executive shall be fully vested in all stock option awards and the Restricted Stock Grant and Executive shall have up to one (1) year from the date of termination by reason of total disability to exercise all such options; and
          (v) As otherwise specifically provided herein.
     2. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (i) of subparagraph (c) and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
     3. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (i) of subparagraph (d) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed
 
under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
     4. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting subsection (e) thereof in its entirety and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (e) . In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for reasons other than death, Total Disability or Cause, or Executive terminates his employment for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY WITHOUT CAUSE; TERMINATION BY EXECUTIVE FOR GOOD REASON
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination, and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided however, that such earned but unpaid bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (ii) Any benefits to which Executive may be entitled pursuant to the plans, policies and arrangements referred to in Section 4(f) hereof shall be determined and paid in accordance with the terms of such plans, policies and arrangements;
          (iii) An amount equal to two times' the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus his Target Annual Bonus (in each case as then in effect), of which one-half shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months after such termination and one-half shall be paid during the two (2) year period beginning as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months after the date of Executive's termination and shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner as Base Salary would have been paid if Executive had remained in active employment until the end of such period;
          (iv) The Company at its expense will continue for Executive and Executive's spouse and dependent, all health benefit plans, programs or arrangements, whether group or individual, in which Executive was entitled to participate at any time during the twelve-month period prior to the date of termination; but only to the extent such arrangements are available to the Company's retirees; and for these purposes, Executive will for purposes of this paragraph 6(e)(iv) be considered a retiree regardless of whether he would otherwise qualify as one; and only until the earliest to occur of (A) two and one-half years after the date of termination; (B) Executive's death (provided that benefits payable to Executive's beneficiaries shall not terminate upon Executive's death); or (C) with respect to any particular plan, program or arrangement, the
 
date Executive becomes covered by a comparable benefit by a subsequent employer;
          (v) Except to the extent prohibited by law, and except as otherwise provided herein, Executive will be 100% vested in all benefits, awards, and grants accrued but unpaid as of the date of termination under any supplemental and/or incentive compensation plans in which Executive was a participant as of the date of termination. Executive shall also be eligible for a bonus or incentive compensation payment, at the same time, on the same basis, and to the same extent payments are made to senior executive, pro-rated for the fiscal year in which the Executive is terminated; provided, however, that such payment of bonus or incentive compensation will be made as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months from the Executive's termination from employment with the Company;
          (vi) Subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable executive long-term incentive plans governing the option awards or restricted stock awards, Executive shall continue to vest in all stock option awards or restricted stock awards over the two (2) year period commencing on the date of such termination of employment. With respect to option awards granted to Executive after the effective date of the Employment Agreement, Executive shall have two (2) years after the date of termination of employment to exercise all options, unless by virtue of the particular stock option award, the option grant expires on an earlier date; and
          (vii) As otherwise specifically provided herein.
     5. Section 7 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (a) in its entirety and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, should Employee at any time within two (2) years of a change in control cease to be an employee of the Company (or its successor), by reason of (i) involuntary termination by the Company (or its successor) other than for "Cause", or (ii) voluntary termination by Employee for "Good Reason", the Company (or its successor shall pay to Employee except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months from such termination of employment the following severance payments and benefits;
PAYMENTS FOLLOWING A CHANGE IN CONTROL
          (i) An amount equal to three (3) times the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus his Target Annual Bonus (in each case as then in effect) payable in a lump sump within five (5) days following the date the Executive ceases to be Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning of the Company. Payment of the amount specified under this Paragraph 7(a)(i) shall be in lieu of any amount payable under Paragraph 6(b)(iii) or Paragraph 6(e)(iii).
 
          (ii) Executive will receive three (3) years additional service credit under the current non-qualified supplemental pension plans, or successors thereto, of the Company applicable to the Executive.
          (iii) Executive will be 100% vested in all benefits, awards, and grants (including stock option grants and stock awards, all of such stock options granted after this Amendment remaining exercisable for a period of at least three (3) years following the Change in Control) accrued but unpaid as of the Change in Control under any non-qualified pension plan, supplemental and/or incentive compensation or bonus plans, in which Executive shall also receive a bonus or incentive compensation payment (the "bonus payment") equal to his Base Salary multiplied by his annual incentive target bonus percentage, each as then in effect, pro-rated as of the effective date of the termination. The bonus payment shall be payable within five (5) days following the date the Executive ceases to be Executive Vice President of the Company, and shall be in lieu of any bonus the Employee would otherwise be entitled to receive under Paragraph 6(b)(i) or Paragraph 6(e)(v).
     For purposes of this Agreement, following a Change in Control, the term "Company" shall include the entity surviving such Change in Control.
     6. Section 7 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting subparagraph (c) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (c) means (i) there shall be consummated (A) any consolidation or merger of Company in which Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of Company's Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of Company where a majority of the Board of Directors of the surviving corporation are, and for a one-year period after the merger continue to be, persons who were directors of Company immediately prior to the merger or were elected as directors, or nominate for election as director, by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors of Company immediately prior to the merger, or (B) any sale, lease, exchange or transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of Company, or (ii) the shareholders of Company shall approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of Company, or (iii) (A) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Act), other than Company or a subsidiary thereof or any employee benefit plan sponsored by Company or a subsidiary thereof, shall become the beneficiary owner (within the meaning of Rule 13c-3 under the Securities Act) of securities of Company representing 35 percent or more of the combined voting power of Company's then outstanding securities ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing in special circumstances) having the right to vote in the election of directors, as a result of a tender or exchange offer, open market purchases, privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, and (B) at any time during a period of one-year thereafter, individuals who immediately prior to the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of Company shall cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless election or the nomination by the Board of Directors for election
CHANGE IN CONTROL
 
by Company's shareholders of each new director during such period was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period.
     7. Section 19 of the Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following subsection (f) to read as follows:
      (f) This Agreement is intended to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and may be administered in a manner that is intended to meet those requirements and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. To the extent that an award or payment, or the settlement or deferral thereof, is subject to Section 409A of the Code, except as the Committee otherwise determines in writing, the award shall be granted, paid, settled or deferred in a manner that will meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including regulations or other guidance issued with respect thereto, such that the grant, payment, settlement or deferral shall not be subject to the excise tax applicable under Section 409A of the Code. Any provision of this Agreement that would cause the award or the payment, settlement or deferral thereof to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall be amended (in a manner that as closely as practicable achieves the original intent of this Agreement) to comply with Section 409A of the Code on a timely basis, which may be made on a retroactive basis, in accordance with regulations and other guidance issued under Section 409A of the Code. In the event additional regulations or other guidance is issued under Section 409A of the Code or a court of competent jurisdiction provides additional authority concerning the application of Section 409A with respect to the payments described in Sections 4 and 6 of the Agreement, then the provisions of such Sections shall be amended to permit such payments to be made at the earliest time permitted under such additional regulations, guidance or authority that is practicable and achieves the original intent of this Agreement.
Deferred Compensation.
     , the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.7
     This First Amendment (the "Amendment") is entered into as of , 2006 (the "Effective Date") as an amendment to the Employment Agreement entered into by and between Tesoro Corporation (the "Company") and Gregory A. Wright (the "Executive") as of August 3, 2004 (the "Employment Agreement"),
                    
     , the Company and Executive have previously entered into the Employment Agreement; and
WHEREAS
     , the Company and Executive wish to amend the Employment Agreement by entering into this Amendment so as to (i) allow for extended exercise rights for stock options granted to the Executive in certain circumstances; (ii) effectuate certain changes to conform the Employment Agreement to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"); (iii) modify the provision of certain post-termination benefits; and (iv) provide certain payments in lieu of vesting under the Company's qualified retirement plans;
WHEREAS
     in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and conditions set forth herein, including but not limited to Executive's employment and the payments and benefits described herein, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Executive hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
     1. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (b) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (b) . In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Total Disability as determined in accordance with Section 5(b), the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
TERMINATION IN THE EVENT OF TOTAL DISABILITY
 
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period. Executive shall also be eligible for a pro-rata bonus of incentive compensation payment to the extent such awards are made to senior executives for the year in which Executive is terminated; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (ii) Any benefits to which Executive my be entitled pursuant to the plans, policies and arrangements (including those referred to in Section 4(f) hereof) shall be determined and paid in accordance with the terms of such plans, policies and arrangements;
          (iii) An amount equal to the Base Salary (at the rate in effect as of the date of Executive's Total Disability) which would have been payable to Executive if Executive had continued in active employment for one (1) year following termination of employment, less any payments under any long-term disability plan or arrangement paid for by the Company. Payment shall be made at the same time and in the same manner as such compensation would have been paid if Executive had remained in active employment until the end of such period, but shall not commence until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (iv) As of the date of termination by reason of Executive's Total Disability, Executive shall be fully vested in all stock option awards and the Restricted Stock Grant and Executive shall have up to one (1) year from the date of termination by reason of total disability to exercise all such options; and
          (v) As otherwise specifically provided herein.
     2. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (i) of subparagraph (c) and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
     3. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting clause (i) of subparagraph (d) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed
 
under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided that such bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
     4. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting subsection (e) thereof in its entirety and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (e) . In the event that Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for reasons other than death, Total Disability or Cause, or Executive terminates his employment for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the following amounts to Executive:
TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY WITHOUT CAUSE; TERMINATION BY EXECUTIVE FOR GOOD REASON
          (i) Any accrued but unpaid Base Salary for services rendered to the date of termination, any accrued but unpaid expenses required to be reimbursed under this Agreement, any vacation accrued to the date of termination, and any earned but unpaid bonuses for any prior period; provided however, that such earned but unpaid bonuses shall not be paid until six (6) months have elapsed from Executive's termination of employment;
          (ii) Any benefits to which Executive may be entitled pursuant to the plans, policies and arrangements referred to in Section 4(f) hereof shall be determined and paid in accordance with the terms of such plans, policies and arrangements;
          (iii) An amount equal to two times' the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus his Target Annual Bonus (in each case as then in effect), of which one-half shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months after such termination and one-half shall be paid during the two (2) year period beginning as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months after the date of Executive's termination and shall be paid at the same time and in the same manner as Base Salary would have been paid if Executive had remained in active employment until the end of such period;
          (iv) The Company at its expense will continue for Executive and Executive's spouse and dependent, all health benefit plans, programs or arrangements, whether group or individual, in which Executive was entitled to participate at any time during the twelve-month period prior to the date of termination; but only to the extent such arrangements are available to the Company's retirees; and for these purposes, Executive will for purposes of this paragraph 6(e)(iv) be considered a retiree regardless of whether he would otherwise qualify as one; and only until the earliest to occur of (A) two and one-half years after the date of termination; (B) Executive's death (provided that benefits payable to Executive's beneficiaries shall not terminate upon Executive's death); or (C) with respect to any particular plan, program or arrangement, the
 
date Executive becomes covered by a comparable benefit by a subsequent employer;
          (v) Except to the extent prohibited by law, and except as otherwise provided herein, Executive will be 100% vested in all benefits, awards, and grants accrued but unpaid as of the date of termination under any supplemental and/or incentive compensation plans in which Executive was a participant as of the date of termination. Executive shall also be eligible for a bonus or incentive compensation payment, at the same time, on the same basis, and to the same extent payments are made to senior executive, pro-rated for the fiscal year in which the Executive is terminated; provided, however, that such payment of bonus or incentive compensation will be made as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months from the Executive's termination from employment with the Company;
          (vi) Executive shall continue to vest in all stock option awards or restricted stock awards over the two (2) year period commencing on the date of such termination of employment. Executive shall have two (2) years after the date of termination of employment to exercise all options, unless by virtue of the particular stock option award, the option grant expires on an earlier date; and
          (vii) As otherwise specifically provided herein.
     5. Section 7 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting subparagraph (a) in its entirety and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, should Employee at any time within two (2) years of a change in control cease to be an employee of the Company (or its successor), by reason of (i) involuntary termination by the Company (or its successor) other than for "Cause", or (ii) voluntary termination by Employee for "Good Reason", the Company (or its successor shall pay to Employee except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, as soon as administratively practicable following six (6) months from such termination of employment the following severance payments and benefits;
PAYMENTS FOLLOWING A CHANGE IN CONTROL
          (i) An amount equal to three (3) times the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus his Target Annual Bonus (in each case as then in effect) payable in a lump sump within five (5) days following the date the Executive ceases to be Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Payment of the amount specified under this Paragraph 7(a)(i) shall be in lieu of any amount payable under Paragraph 6(b)(iii) or Paragraph 6(e)(iii).
          (ii) Executive will receive three (3) years additional service credit under the current non-qualified supplemental pension plans, or successors thereto, of the Company applicable to the Executive.
 
          (iii) Executive will be 100% vested in all benefits, awards, and grants (including stock option grants and stock awards, all of such stock options granted after this Amendment remaining exercisable for a period of at least three (3) years following the Change in Control) accrued but unpaid as of the Change in Control under any non-qualified pension plan, supplemental and/or incentive compensation or bonus plans, in which Executive shall also receive a bonus or incentive compensation payment (the "bonus payment") equal to his Base Salary multiplied by his annual incentive target bonus percentage, each as then in effect, pro-rated as of the effective date of the termination. The bonus payment shall be payable within five (5) days following the date the Executive ceases to be Executive Vice President of the Company, and shall be in lieu of any bonus the Employee would otherwise be entitled to receive under Paragraph 6(b)(i) or Paragraph 6(e)(v).
     For purposes of this Agreement, following a Change in Control, the term "Company" shall include the entity surviving such Change in Control.
     6. Section 7 of the Agreement is hereby further amended by deleting subparagraph (c) thereof and substituting the following in its stead to read as follows:
      (c) means (i) there shall be consummated (A) any consolidation or merger of Company in which Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of Company's Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other property, other than a merger of Company where a majority of the Board of Directors of the surviving corporation are, and for a one-year period after the merger continue to be, persons who were directors of Company immediately prior to the merger or were elected as directors, or nominate for election as director, by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors of Company immediately prior to the merger, or (B) any sale, lease, exchange or transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of Company, or (ii) the shareholders of Company shall approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of Company, or (iii) (A) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Act), other than Company or a subsidiary thereof or any employee benefit plan sponsored by Company or a subsidiary thereof, shall become the beneficiary owner (within the meaning of Rule 13c-3 under the Securities Act) of securities of Company representing 35 percent or more of the combined voting power of Company's then outstanding securities ordinarily (and apart from rights accruing in special circumstances) having the right to vote in the election of directors, as a result of a tender or exchange offer, open market purchases, privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, and (B) at any time during a period of one-year thereafter, individuals who immediately prior to the beginning of such period constituted the Board of Directors of Company shall cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof, unless election or the nomination by the Board of Directors for election by Company's shareholders of each new director during such period was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period.
CHANGE IN CONTROL
 
     7. Section 19 of the Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following subsection (f) to read as follows:
      (f) This Agreement is intended to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and may be administered in a manner that is intended to meet those requirements and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. To the extent that an award or payment, or the settlement or deferral thereof, is subject to Section 409A of the Code, except as the Committee otherwise determines in writing, the award shall be granted, paid, settled or deferred in a manner that will meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including regulations or other guidance issued with respect thereto, such that the grant, payment, settlement or deferral shall not be subject to the excise tax applicable under Section 409A of the Code. Any provision of this Agreement that would cause the award or the payment, settlement or deferral thereof to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall be amended (in a manner that as closely as practicable achieves the original intent of this Agreement) to comply with Section 409A of the Code on a timely basis, which may be made on a retroactive basis, in accordance with regulations and other guidance issued under Section 409A of the Code. In the event additional regulations or other guidance is issued under Section 409A of the Code or a court of competent jurisdiction provides additional authority concerning the application of Section 409A with respect to the payments described in Sections 4 and 6 of the Agreement, then the provisions of such Sections shall be amended to permit such payments to be made at the earliest time permitted under such additional regulations, guidance or authority that is practicable and achieves the original intent of this Agreement.
Deferred Compensation.
     , the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
     Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected William J. Finnerty Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS  February 2, 2006 
     "Bill has been instrumental in our ability to achieve record earnings and throughput levels at our six refineries during the past year," said Bruce A. Smith, Chairman, President and CEO of Tesoro. "He has brought an increased level of sophistication to our operations and strategy. I am proud of his fine work and pleased to announce his promotion to Chief Operating Officer."
     Finnerty was named Executive Vice President, Operations in January 2005. He joined Tesoro in 2003 as Vice President, Crude Oil and Logistics of Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company. Prior to joining Tesoro, Finnerty served in senior executive positions for other major oil and gas companies. Finnerty earned his bachelor's degree from State University Maritime College in New York.


