FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20070305171708.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 5, 2007, Tesoro Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing that J.W. (Jim) Nokes had been elected to the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Nokes was elected on March 1, 2007 and will stand for reelection at the 2007 Annual Meeting to be held on May 1, 2007. The Company's Board of Directors will appoint Mr. Nokes to one or more committees of the Board at a later date, in which this Current Report on Form 8-K will be amended to report Mr. Nokes' committee assignments. The Press Release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
99.1 Press Release issued on March 5, 2007 by Tesoro Corporation.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:March 5, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) announced that J.W. (Jim) Nokes has been elected to serve as the eleventh member of its Board of Directors.
SAN ANTONIO, TX (March 2, 2007) 
     "The Board of Directors and our management team believe the knowledge and global experience that Jim has obtained over his 36 years in the oil industry will benefit our shareholders as we continue to evaluate ways to add value," said Bruce Smith, Chairman, President and CEO of Tesoro Corporation.
     Nokes joined Conoco in 1970 and held various administrative, planning and operating management positions with Conoco Pipe Line Company. In 1981, he became the commercial manager of the natural gas and gas processing department of Conoco Inc. He returned to the transportation business in 1987 as general manager of transportation and president of Conoco Pipe Line Company.
     In 1989, Nokes transferred to London as director and general manager of business development of Conoco's exploration and production affiliate. He became vice president and general manager of product marketing, supply and transportation in 1993. Nokes capped his career with seven years as the executive vice president of refining, marketing, supply and transportation for ConocoPhillips' global downstream business.
     Nokes holds a bachelor's degree in business administration from Fort Hays State University in Kansas and a master of business administration from the University of Arkansas.
 
About Tesoro's Board Members
     Tesoro's board members are: Patrick J. Ward, Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Caltex Petroleum Corporation, serves on Tesoro's compensation and governance committees; William J. Johnson, President of JonLoc Inc., a petroleum consulting firm, chair of the company's governance committee and serves on the compensation and audit committees; Steven H. Grapstein, Lead Director of Tesoro Corporation and chair of the company's audit committee, is Chief Executive Officer of Kuo Investment Company; Bruce A. Smith, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Tesoro Corporation; Donald H. Schmude, Retired Vice President, Texaco and Retired President and Chief Executive Officer of Texaco Refining and Marketing, Inc, chair of the company's environmental, health & safety committee and also serves on the finance committee.; A. Maurice Myers, Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Waste Management, Inc., chair of the company's compensation committee and serves on the governance committee; Michael E. Wiley, Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Baker Hughes Incorporated, serves on the environmental, health & safety and finance committees; Robert W. Goldman, Retired Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Conoco, Inc., chair of the finance committee and serves on the audit and environmental, health & safety committees; Rodney Frank Chase, Non-Executive Chairman of Petrofac Ltd. in Europe and Deputy Chairman of Tesco plc in London serves on the audit and governance committees; John F. Bookout III Retired Director of McKinsey & Company, serves on the audit and compensation committees.
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 Company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro operates six refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 560,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 450 branded retail stations, of which over 200 are company owned and operated under the Tesoroand Mirastar brands.
About Tesoro


