FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20070129093520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Tesoro Corporation ("Tesoro" or the "Company") on January 29, 2007 issued a press release announcing financial results for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2006. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information above is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On January 29, 2007, Tesoro issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has approved agreements for the Company to purchase the Los Angeles refinery (Wilmington), Wilmington Products Terminal, and approximately 250 Southern California Shell-branded retail sites from Shell Oil Products US. The purchase price of Shell's assets will be $1,630 million, plus the value of petroleum inventory at the time of closing, which at current prices, would be $180 to $200 million. Tesoro also signed a long-term agreement allowing the Company to continue to operate the retail sites under the Shell brand. The transaction will require regulatory approval and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2007. The purchase will be paid for by using cash on-hand, which at year-end was approximately $1.0 billion and borrowings. The exact amount of both is yet to be determined. The executed purchase agreement for the Los Angeles refinery will be filed in a subsequent Current Report on Form 8-K. The above press release is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Tesoro also announced in a press release on January 29, 2007 announcing that its Board of Directors has approved an agreement for the Company to purchase 140 USA Petroleum retail sites located primarily in California, a terminal located in New Mexico and select sites in other states. The purchase price of the assets and the USA brand is $277 million, plus the value of inventory at the time of closing which is currently estimated to be $10 to $15 million. The transaction requires regulatory approval and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2007. The executed purchase agreement will be filed in a subsequent Current Report on Form 8-K. The above press release is filed as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Tesoro has scheduled a conference call on January 29, 2007 to discuss the transactions. Additional information describing the transactions (the "Acquisitions Presentation") will be presented by certain executives of Tesoro during the conference call. The Acquisitions Presentation will be available on the Company's website at at 9:00 a.m. CST on January 29, 2007. The Acquisitions Presentation is filed as Exhibit 99.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
www.tsocorp.com
The information above is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including Exhibits 99.2 through 99.4, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          (c)      Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 29, 2007
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Investors: Scott Phipps, Manager, Investor Relations, (210) 283-2882
Media: Natalie Silva, Manager, Public Relations, (210) 219-8189
     -Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) today reported record 2006 fourth quarter net income of $158 million, or $2.28 per share, and full year 2006 net income of $801 million, or $11.46 per share. Earnings for 2006 were almost $300 million ahead of last year.
SAN ANTONIO  January 29, 2007
     Quarterly gross refining margin rose 16% compared to 2005 more than offsetting the lower throughput primarily caused by a turnaround at the Anacortes refinery. Quarterly refining operating income of $284 million was nearly $40 million more than a year ago. "Our knowledge and experience in optimizing our system continues to develop and our decisions around crude oil purchasing and clean product management are significantly improving earnings. Our management team is excited because we continue to find new opportunities to add value," said Bruce Smith, Chairman, President and CEO.
     Heavy turnaround activity on the West Coast in the fourth quarter strengthened margins versus last year. Jet fuel demand strengthened during the quarter, leading to
 
Page 2 of 3 Tesoro Reports Fourth Quarter Results
improved performance at our Alaska refinery. In addition, strong diesel demand in the mid-continent region contributed to the company's profitability in this region. Increasingly favorable dynamics in our Salt Lake City and Mandan refining markets are improving the balance of the company's earnings. "In 2005, these assets represented 19% of our total refining operating income. This year they contributed 26% as we have successfully and safely increased throughput and the production of clean fuels," said Smith.
     Capital spending for the year was approximately $570 million of which $117 million was for turnaround expenditures. The company continues to reinvest cash flow to improve reliability, environmental compliance and operating income from our assets. EBITDA contributions from many of the projects initiated in 2006 are expected to be between $80-$125 million pre-tax in 2007.
     Cash at the end of the year was $986 million as compared to $440 million on December 31, 2005. The ratio of debt-to-capitalization was 29% compared to 36% a year ago.
Board Declares Quarterly Dividend
     Tesoro announced today that its Board of Directors has approved a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share. The dividend is payable March 15, 2007 to shareholders of record as of March 1, 2007.
Public Invited to Listen to Analyst Conference Call via Internet
     At 9:00 a.m. CST Monday, January 29, 2007 Tesoro will broadcast its conference call with analysts regarding fourth quarter 2006 results. Interested parties may listen to the live conference call over the Internet by logging on to Tesoro's Internet
th
site at .
http://www.tsocorp.com
 
Page 3 of 3 Tesoro Reports Fourth Quarter Results
     Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 Company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro operates six refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 560,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 450 branded retail stations, of which nearly 200 are company owned and operated under the Tesoro and Mirastar brands.
     
This earnings release contains certain statements that are "forward-looking" statements concerning future cash flows and capital expenditures within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For more information concerning factors that could affect these statements see our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q
, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which we become aware of, after the date hereof."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Investors: Scott Phipps, Manager, Investor Relations, (210) 283-2882
Media: Natalie Silva, Manager, Public Relations, (210) 219-8189
-Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) announced today that the Board has approved agreements for the company to purchase the Los Angeles refinery (Wilmington), Wilmington Products Terminal, and approximately 250 Southern California Shell-branded retail sites from Shell Oil Products US. The purchase price of Shell's assets will be $1,630 million, plus the value of petroleum inventory at the time of closing, which at current prices, would be $180 to $200 million. Tesoro also signed a long-term agreement allowing the company to continue operating the retail sites under the Shell brand. The transaction will require regulatory approval and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2007.
SAN ANTONIO  January 29, 2007
 
Page 2 of 4 Tesoro Reports Fourth Quarter Results
"These assets are a tremendous complement to our existing operations on the West Coast and will be immediately accretive to our earnings and cash flow," said Bruce Smith, Chairman, President and CEO. "The refinery fits perfectly with our system, and we expect to quickly integrate the facility into our network. With the unique focus we have as an independent refiner-marketer in the region, we expect to realize synergies immediately through crude purchasing and shipping logistics, as well as by optimizing the output of our refineries to maximize the production of clean fuel products for the California market."
Shell Assets
Shell's Wilmington refinery, located south of Los Angeles, is a 100,000 barrel per day (bpd) heavy, sour crude refinery producing clean fuels that meet California's stringent requirements. Tesoro expects to generate significant system synergies through integrating the supply of heavy, sour crudes with our Golden Eagle refinery and by utilizing our unique West Coast shipping logistics capabilities. These system synergies are expected to generate EBITDA of $100 million in our first 12 months of ownership. Additionally, Tesoro plans to make investments at Wilmington to improve reliability, upgrade environmental performance, and increase the production of clean products at the plant over the next several years. These investments are anticipated to generate an additional $125 to $150 million of annual EBITDA and should be fully implemented by 2011.
The plant's major processing units include a 40,000 bpd Delayed Coker, a 36,000 bpd Fluid Catalytic Cracker, a 32,000 bpd Hydrocracking Unit, 32,500 bpd of Reforming capacity in two units, and 101,250 bpd of hydrotreating capacity in four units. The facility has a Nelson Complexity Index rating of 16.4.
 
Page 3 of 4 Tesoro Reports Fourth Quarter Results
The acquisition also includes approximately 250 high volume Shell-branded retail sites located in Southern California which average approximately 225,000 gallons per month per site. These sites match the current output of California-grade gasoline from the Los Angeles refinery. The purchase includes the underlying real estate at many of the sites.
"We are excited about adding new talent and intellectual capital to Tesoro," said Smith. "We have grown through acquisitions, and each time we have added people to our organization who have been able to take our company to a new level of performance. We also look forward to working with the local communities and extending our commitment to community giving and volunteerism in Los Angeles and Wilmington."
Transaction Financing
The purchase will be paid for by using cash on-hand, which at year-end was approximately $1.0 billion and borrowings. The exact amount of both is yet to be determined, but the pro-forma debt-to-capitalization ratio is expected to be less than 50% at the time of closing. The company plans to quickly reduce debt through internally generated cash flow and has set a goal to reduce debt to 40% of capitalization by the end of 2007. Lehman Brothers served as Tesoro's financial advisor for the transaction.
Conference Call
Tesoro has scheduled a conference call to discuss these transactions today at 10:00 a.m. EST / 7 a.m. PST. Interested parties may listen to the live conference call and view the webcast on the Investor Relations section of the Tesoro website at www.tsocorp.com
 
Page 4 of 4 Tesoro Reports Fourth Quarter Results
     Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 Company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro operates six refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 560,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 450 branded retail stations, of which over 200 are company owned and operated under the Tesoro and Mirastar brands.
     
This earnings release contains certain statements that are "forward-looking" statements concerning future cash flows, debt reduction and capital expenditures within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For more information concerning factors that could affect these statements see our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q
, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which we become aware of, after the date hereof."

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Investors:
Scott Phipps, Manager, Investor Relations, (210) 283-2882
Media:
Natalie Silva, Manager, Media Relations, (210) 219-8189
-Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved an agreement for the company to purchase 140 USA Petroleum retail sites located primarily in California, a terminal located in New Mexico and select sites in other states.
SAN ANTONIO  January 29, 2007
     The purchase price of the assets and the USA brand is $277 million, plus the value of inventory at the time of closing which is currently estimated to be $10  $15 million. Of the 140 retail sites, 125 use the USA brand and 15 use other major brands.
     "USA Petroleum has been an independent marketer in California for many years," said Bruce Smith, Chairman, President and CEO. "We are committed to maintaining the independent USA retail brand and growing our business with other independent customers."
 
     "The acquisition provides us with locations near our California refineries that allow us to run the refineries at full capacity, invest in refinery improvements and deliver more clean products into the market," said Smith. "As an independent refiner and marketer, our strategy is to meet the product demand of a diverse customer base, including other independent retailers while also working to increase the amount of clean products available in the market."
     "We value the unique experience that new employees bring to Tesoro," said Smith. "We are excited to welcome the USA Petroleum employees into the Tesoro family and look forward to the contributions they will make toward achieving operational excellence. We also plan to extend our commitment to community giving and volunteerism in the communities in which we operate."
     The transaction requires regulatory approval and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2007.
USA Petroleum Assets
     The 140 high volume retail sites include 132 operating sites in California, six sites in the Pacific Northwest and two sites and a terminal in New Mexico. The high volume locations average 185,000 gallons per month and most sites include the underlying real estate, contributing to the high value of the sites.
     The USA Petroleum sites are estimated to contribute approximately $30 million per year in additional EBITDA.
Conference Call
     Tesoro has scheduled a conference call to discuss this transaction today at 10:00 a.m. EST / 7 a.m. PST. Interested parties may listen to the live conference call and view the webcast on the Investor Relations section of the Tesoro website at www.tsocorp.com
     Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 Company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro operates six refineries in the western United
 
States with a combined capacity of approximately 560,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 450 branded retail stations, of which over 200 are company owned and operated under the Tesoroand Mirastar brands.
     
This earnings release contains certain statements that are "forward-looking" statements concerning future cash flows and capital expenditures within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For more information concerning factors that could affect these statements see our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q
, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which we become aware of, after the date hereof."

 
EXHIBIT  99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


