FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20070201142038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 29, 2007, Tesoro Corporation ("Tesoro") entered into two purchase agreements (the "Shell Agreements") with Shell Oil Products US ("Shell") to purchase a 100,000 barrels per day ("bpd") refinery and a 42,000 bpd products terminal located south of Los Angeles, California along with approximately 250 Shell-branded retail sites located throughout Southern California (the "Los Angeles Assets"). Tesoro also signed a long-term agreement allowing us to continue to operate the retail sites under the Shell brand. The purchase price of the Los Angeles Assets is $1.63 billion, plus the value of petroleum inventories at the time of closing, which at current prices, would be $180 million to $200 million. Upon closing of the acquisitions Shell has agreed, subject to certain limitations, to retain certain obligations, responsibilities, liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of the pre-closing operations of the assets. Tesoro has agreed to assume certain obligations, responsibilities, liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of or incurred in connection with decrees, orders and settlements Shell entered into with governmental and non-governmental entities prior to closing. This transaction, which will require regulatory approval from the Federal Trade Commission and the office of the Attorney General of the State of California, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2007. The Shell Agreements are filed as Exhibits 2.1 and 2.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
On January 26, 2007, Tesoro entered into a purchase and sale agreement (the "USA Petroleum Agreement") with USA Petroleum to purchase 140 USA Petroleum retail sites and a terminal located in New Mexico. The retail sites are located primarily in California, with 6 sites in Washington and 2 sites in New Mexico. The purchase price of the assets and the USA brand is $277 million, plus the value of inventory at the time of closing which based on current prices is estimated to be $10 million to $15 million. Tesoro will assume the obligations under the seller's leases, contracts, permits or other agreements arising after the closing date. USA Petroleum, subject to certain limitations, will retain pre-closing liabilities including environmental. This transaction, which will require regulatory approval from the Federal Trade Commission and the office of the Attorney General of the State of California, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2007. The USA Petroleum Agreement is filed as Exhibit 2.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The acquisitions of the Los Angeles Assets and the USA Petroleum retail sites will be paid for with a combination of debt and cash on-hand, which at December 31, 2006 was $986 million. The exact amount of each is yet to be determined.
9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 2.1
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     This ASSET PURCHASE AGREEMENT for the purchase and sale of assets is made and entered into as of January 29, 2007, by and between d/b/a Shell Oil Products US, a Delaware limited liability company and a Delaware company
("
Agreement
"),
EQUILON ENTERPRISES LLC
("
Seller
"),
TESORO REFINING AND
MARKETING COMPANY,
("
Buye
r").
     Seller is the owner of a crude oil refinery complex commonly known as the Los Angeles Refinery located in the cities of Los Angeles, California and Wilmington, California;
WHEREAS,
     Seller desires to sell or cause the sale of the Purchased Assets, as hereinafter defined; and
WHEREAS,
     Buyer desires to buy the Purchased Assets on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.
WHEREAS,
     in consideration of the mutual promises made herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby expressly acknowledged, and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, the Parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
      Terms that are defined in Sections other than this of this Agreement shall have the meanings attributed to them where defined. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below, unless the context otherwise requires:
1.01
Definitions.
Section 1.01
     has the meaning set forth in
"1031 Exchange"
Section 14.05.
     has the meaning set forth in
"AAA Rules"
Section 16.01.
     means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. It is understood that (i) an entity (hereinafter referred to as the "parent entity") directly "controls" another entity (hereinafter referred to as the "controlled entity") if the parent entity holds shares or equivalent ownership interest or contractual rights carrying more than fifty percent (50%) of the votes exercisable at a general meeting (or its equivalent) of the controlled entity or the right to appoint a majority of the members of the board of directors (or its equivalent) of the controlled entity, and (ii) a parent entity indirectly "controls" a controlled entity if a series of entities can be specified beginning with the parent entity and ending with the controlled entity such that each entity of the series owns, either directly or through one or more entities in the series, more than a fifty percent (50%) interest in a later entity in the series or otherwise holds (directly or indirectly) the rights with respect to the controlled entity.
"Affiliate"
 
     has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
"Agreement"
     means any applicable statute, law, ordinance, code (including the Code), rule or regulation of any Governmental Authority and any applicable order, decision, injunction, judgment, award and decree or consent of or agreement with any Governmental Authority.
"Applicable Law"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Arbitration Notice"
Section 16.01.
     has the meaning set forth in .
"Assumed Liabilities"
Section 2.05(a)
     means the Blend Plant Real Property, the Blend Plant Improvements and the Blend Plant Personal Property.
"Blend Plant Assets"
     has the meaning set forth in .
"Blend Plant Deed"
Section 2.08(c)
     means any and all buildings, structures, fixtures or other improvements owned by or leased to Seller that are attached or affixed to the Blend Plant Real Property including blending units, storage tanks, control houses, loading racks and other facilities.
"Blend Plant Improvements"
     has the meaning set forth in .
"Blend Plant Lease"
Section 2.08(b)(v)
     has the meaning set forth in
"Blend Plant Memorandum of Right to Reconveyance"
Section 2.08(e)
     means the lube oil blend plant located on the Blend Plant Real Property and associated lube truck loading rack and lube tankage and all raw material, intermediate product and finished product inventories, all as more particularly described on including furnishings, furniture, computer hardware, telecommunications equipment, fittings, machinery, tools, spare parts, apparatus, tanks, meters, pumps, engines, compressors, pipes, valves, connections, regulators, sewers, appliances, signs and all other articles of tangible personal property of every kind whatsoever in all cases owned by or leased to Seller that in the normal course of business are located on the Blend Plant Real Property or are used in or held for use by Seller primarily in the operations of such blend plant.
"Blend Plant Personal Property"
Schedule 1.01 A,
     has the meaning set forth in
"Blend Plant Real Property"
Section 2.08(a)(i).
     means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in Los Angeles, California are authorized by law to close.
"Business Day"
     has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
"Buyer"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Buyer Indemnified Party(ies)"
Section 13.02.
     means damage to or destruction by fire or other casualty to all or any portion of the Refinery.
"Casualty"
     means a dispute, claim, or controversy whether based on contract, tort, strict liability, statute or other legal or equitable theory (including any claim of fraud, misrepresentation or fraudulent inducement or any question of validity or effect of an agreement).
"Claim"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Claim Notice"
Section 13.05.
     means the closing of the purchase and sale contemplated hereunder.
"Closing"
 
     means the time and date established for the Closing pursuant to
"Closing Date"
Section 3.01.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Closing Date Payment"
Section 2.03.
     means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code"
     means the agreements listed in .
"Commercial Agreements"
Section 3.02(c)(vii)
      has the meaning set forth in
"Commitments"
Section 4.10.
     means that certain Confidentiality Agreement between Seller and Buyer dated August 7, 2006.
"Confidentiality Agreement"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Confidential Information"
Section 17.14(a).
     means all of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including: (A) the sale of the Purchased Assets to Buyer; (B) the execution and delivery of the Related Agreements; (C) the performance by the Parties of their respective covenants and obligations under this Agreement; and (D) Buyer's acquisition and ownership of the Purchased Assets. The term "Contemplated Transactions" does NOT include the transactions contemplated by the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement.
"Contemplated Transactions"
     means any contract, agreement, commitment, lease or other obligation or arrangement (whether written or oral), and any responsibility, liability, cost or expense of whatever kind or nature relating to the foregoing in all cases that arise out of, or is incurred in connection with, the ownership or use of the Purchased Assets or the Operations, but excluding any Employee Benefit Plan and any Excluded Contract.
"Contract"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Defaulting Party"
Section 15.06.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Deliverable Items"
Section 9.08.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Dispute"
Section 16.01.
     has the meaning set forth in
"DOJ"
Section 8.01.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Effective Time"
Section 3.03.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Electing Party"
Section 14.05.
     means those emissions credits described on .
"Emissions Credits"
Schedule 1.01J
     has the meaning set forth in on
"Employee"
Section 10.01(c)
Schedule 10.01.
     means any "employee benefit plan", as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, whether or not subject to ERISA, and any bonus, incentive or deferred compensation, severance, termination, retention, supplemental unemployment benefit, premium reduction, mortgage assistance, employee loan, change of control, stock option, stock appreciation, stock purchase, phantom stock or other equity-based, performance or other employee or retiree benefit or compensation plan, program, arrangement, agreement, policy or understanding, whether written or unwritten, funded or unfunded, registered or unregistered, that provides or may provide benefits or compensation in respect of any Employee or the beneficiaries or dependents of any such Employee or under which any Employee is
"Employee Benefit Plan"
 
or may become eligible to participate or derive a benefit and that is or has been established, maintained or contributed to by Seller or its Affiliates.
     means the Effective Time, except that in the case of any Transferred Employee who is an Inactive Employee at the Effective Time, "Employment Commencement Date" shall mean the date, if ever, on which such Transferred Employee returns to active employment in the Operations.
"Employment Commencement Date"
     means all furnishings, furniture, computer hardware, telecommunications equipment, fittings, machinery, refining process units, tools, spare parts, apparatus, tanks, meters, pumps, engines, compressors, pipes, valves, connections, regulators, sewers, appliances, signs and all other articles of tangible personal property of every kind whatsoever (excluding Improvements), in all cases owned by or leased to Seller, that in the normal course of business are located on the Real Property or are used in or held for use by Seller primarily in the Operations.
"Equipment"
     has the meaning set forth in on .
"ERISA"
Section 10.04(a)
Schedule 10.01
     means those assets described on
"Excluded Assets"
Schedule 1.01B.
     means those contracts described on
"Excluded Contracts"
Schedule 1.01C.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Field Inspector"
Section 2.06(b).
     has the meaning set forth in
"Field Inspector Report"
Section 2.06(b)
     has the meaning set forth in
"Financial Statements"
Section 6.04.
     means any (l)fire, explosion, casualty or accident; (2) act of God, including epidemic, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, cyclone or flood; (3) war, revolution, civil commotion, act of enemies, blockade, or embargo; or (4) other similar occurrences or acts beyond the reasonable control of a Party, which act or occurrence shall make it impossible for the Party concerned to carry out the obligations of such Party under this Agreement (but lack of financial ability shall not be a Force Majeure Event).
"Force Majeure Event"
     has the meaning set forth in
"FTC"
Section 8.01.
     means the United States and any foreign, state, county, city or other political subdivision and any department, commission, board, bureau, agency, commission, officer, official, court, tribunal, arbitrator, board or bureau or other instrumentality thereof and any self-regulatory organization, such as a securities exchange.
"Governmental Authority"
     means that certain 15 million standard cubic foot per day hydrogen generation unit located on the Refinery Real Property including the unit boiler, steam turbine generator, surface condenser and related equipment and all alterations or additions thereto and modifications or replacements thereof.
"HGU Unit"
     means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976, as amended.
"HSR Act"
     has the meaning set forth in
"HSE Agreement"
Section 3.02(c)(iv).
     has the meaning set forth in the HSE Agreement.
"HSE Claim"
 
      has the meaning as set forth in the HSE Agreement.
"HSE Law"
      has the meaning set forth in the HSE Agreement.
"HSE Permit"
     means all hydrocarbon inventories owned by Seller as of the Effective Time for use in or resulting from the Operations including each of the following as of the Effective Time (i) all crude oil, blendstock, feedstock and intermediate petroleum products owned by Seller and that are located at the Refinery as of the Effective Time (in each case which shall be measured and valued for all purposes of this Agreement in accordance with and A-2) or, to the extent previously agreed in writing by the Parties, that are in transit to the Refinery or held in off-site storage as of the Effective Time but excluding hydrocarbons in process units or in interconnecting lines at the Refinery; (ii) all refined and intermediate product inventories, including petroleum coke and sulfur; and (iii) all additives (excluding additives used by Seller in finished products); but in all cases excluding all finished and unfinished products that have left the Refinery and are en route to any customer (including Seller's Affiliate(s)) where title has passed to the customer. Hydrocarbon Inventories shall include tank bottoms and heels.
"Hydrocarbon Inventories"
Exhibits A-l
     means any and all buildings, structures, fixtures or other improvements owned by or leased to Seller that are attached or affixed to the Refinery Real Property, the SRP Real Property or the LBT Real Property including process units, storage tanks, control houses, office buildings, laboratory facilities, warehouses, boiler houses, power plants, waste water treatment facilities and other similar facilities (but excluding improvements comprising the Blend Plant Improvements).
"Improvements"
     means any Employee not actively at work in the Operations at the Effective Time on account of (1) illness or injury, occupational or otherwise, except where the Employee's return to work from such illness or injury is reasonably expected at the Effective Time within twelve (12) months of onset of illness or injury, or (2) military service.
"Inactive Employee"
     shall refer to the Person or Persons indemnified, or entitled, or claiming to be entitled to be indemnified, held harmless or defended pursuant to this Agreement including a Buyer Indemnified Party and a Seller Indemnified Party.
"Indemnified Party"
     shall refer to the Party having the obligation to indemnify, defend and hold harmless pursuant to this Agreement.
"Indemnifying Party"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Inspector"
Section 2.06(c).
     means intellectual and similar property of every kind and nature that is being used in the Operations as of the Effective Time (i) that was licensed by Texaco Inc. and certain of its Affiliates, or Shell Oil Company and certain of its Affiliates to Seller on a non-exclusive basis for Seller's Use and for which Seller enjoys a right to grant a sublicense to a purchaser of the Purchased Assets or (ii) that is owned by Seller and that Seller has a right to grant a non-exclusive license to Use including patents, patent applications and divisions, continuations, continuations-in-part, extensions and reissues of same, inventions, invention disclosures, copyrights, including registrations and applications to register copyrights, moral rights, formulae, processes, engineering data, designs, know-how, show-how, confidential or proprietary technical information and trade secrets or other similar data or information and Software, but excluding Trademarks.
"Intellectual Property"
     means the period of time from the date of this Agreement until the earlier of the Closing or the termination hereof.
"Interim Period"
 
     means the Hydrocarbon Inventories and the Non-Hydrocarbon Inventories.
"Inventories"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Inventory Balance"
Section 2.06(d).
     has the meaning set forth in
"Inventory Deposit"
Section 2.06(a).
     has the meaning set forth in
"Inventory Notice Date"
Section 2.06(c).
     has the meaning set forth in
"Inventory Statement"
Section 2.06(c).
     has the meaning set forth in
"Inventory Value"
Section 2.06(c).
     means any judgments, orders, decisions, injunctions, decrees or awards of any federal, state, local or foreign court, arbitrator or administrative or other Governmental Authority.
"Judgments"
     means Seller's rights to capacity on the Kinder Morgan product system to the extent such rights arise directly out of Seller's historic use of such system, subject to applicable rules on file with appropriate Regulatory Agencies including FERC and CPUC, as follows:
"Kinder Morgan Pipeline Histories"
 Seller's line time shipping history consideration on the Kinder Morgan system to the Shell Colton Terminal required to support all volumes associated with the "Purchased Premises" and the "Open Dealer Premises" as such terms are defined in the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement, as determined by 2006 pipeline receipt and lifting patterns.
Shell Colton Terminal
 Seller's line time shipping history consideration on the Kinder Morgan system to the Shell San Diego Terminal required to support all volumes associated with the "Purchased Premises" and the "Open Dealer Premises" as such terms are defined in the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement, as determined by 2006 pipeline receipt and lifting patterns.
Shell San Diego Terminal
     or or means in the case of Seller, the actual knowledge after reasonable due inquiry of the indicated individuals listed on and, in the case of Buyer, the actual knowledge after reasonable due inquiry of the indicated individuals listed on . For the avoidance of doubt, none of the individuals listed on is personally making any representations or warranties herein.
"Known" "Knowledge"
"To the Knowledge of"
"Within the knowledge of"
Schedule 1.01D
Schedule 1.01D
Schedule 1.01D
     means that certain Lease dated October 18, 1966 by and between the City of Long Beach and Texaco, Inc., as amended and extended, related to the lease of the LBT Real Property.
"LBT Lease"
     means the tract(s) (or parcel(s)) of land described on
"LBT Real Property"
Schedule 4.04(c).
     means intellectual and similar property of every kind and nature, except Intellectual Property, licensed by third parties to Seller or its Affiliates before the Effective Time, for the Operations including patents, patent applications and divisions, continuations, continuations-in-part, extensions and reissues of same, inventions, invention disclosures, copyrights, including registrations and applications to register copyrights, moral rights, formulae, processes, engineering data, designs, know-how, show-how, confidential or proprietary technical information and trade secrets or other similar data or information and Software, but excluding all Trademarks.
"Licensed Technology Rights"
     means any and all liens, mortgages, charges, pledges, security interests, burdens, easements, rights of way, zoning ordinances, mineral exceptions, rights of first offer, rights of first
"Liens"
 
refusal, purchase options or other encumbrances of any nature whatsoever, including such as has arisen under any Contracts.
     means the docking terminal at the LBT Real Property for the loading or unloading of crude oil or products, all Improvements thereon and all other related Personal Property.
"Long Beach Terminal"
     means any and all costs, Claims, losses (but excluding lost profits except to the extent awarded to a non-Affiliate third party), liabilities, fines, penalties, obligations (including corrective and remedial obligations), damages (but excluding any indirect, special, punitive, exemplary and consequential damages other than such damages as may be awarded to a non-Affiliate third party), and expenses (including reasonable legal fees and expenses and reasonable fees and expenses of other consultants, in each case as may be incurred in the investigation or defense of any of the same or in asserting any of their respective rights hereunder).
"Losses"
     means the result of any act(s), omission(s), conduct, occurrence(s), condition(s) or situation(s), or any combination thereof, if the same have or could reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, (a) result in Losses with respect to the value of the Purchased Assets in excess of One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), or (b) if not quantifiable, materially impair the ownership or use of the Purchased Assets or the Operations, each taken as a whole.
"Material Adverse Effect"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Mediation Notice"
Section 16.01.
     means the non-hydrocarbon inventories owned by Seller as of the Effective Time for use in the Operations consisting of (i) chemicals and catalyst inventories located at the Refinery, (ii) any precious metals and other non-hydrocarbon inventories located at the Refinery and held primarily for use in the Operations, and (iii) the stores inventories, including maintenance and capital spares, joints, valves and parts are located (A) at the Refinery and used primarily in the Operations, (B) at any off-site storage facility and used exclusively in the Operations or (C) at any off-site storage facility used in the Operations and at Seller's other facilities to the extent that such off-site stores inventories can be allocated among the Refinery and Seller's other facilities in a manner that is fair and equitable.
"Non-Hydrocarbon Inventories"
     has the meaning set forth in on
"Non-Represented Employee"
Section 10.01(b)
Schedule 10.01.
     means any duties, responsibilities, liabilities and obligations, costs and expenses of whatever kind and nature, whether vested, absolute or contingent, primary or secondary, direct or indirect, known or unknown, asserted or unasserted, accrued or unaccrued, liquidated or unliquidated, due or to become due, and whether based in common law or statute or arising under Contract or by action of any Government Authority or otherwise.
"Obligations"
     means those activities conducted by Seller in the ordinary course of operating the Refinery including activities associated with the intake of crude oil and the distribution of refined products from the Refinery but excluding activities conducted in the operation of Excluded Assets.
"Operations"
     means the articles of incorporation, certificate of incorporation, charter, bylaws, articles or certificate of formation, regulations, operating or company agreement, certificate of limited partnership, partnership agreement, and all other similar documents, instruments or certificates executed, adopted, or filed in connection with the creation, formation, or organization of a Person, including any amendments thereto.
"Organizational Documents"
     means each of Seller and Buyer and collectively Seller and Buyer.
"Party" and "Parties"
 
     means any permits, temporary permits to construct or operate, licenses, approvals, registrations, rights of way, orders, waivers, variances or other authorizations issued or granted by any Governmental Authority.
"Permits"
     means, with respect to the Purchased Assets, any of the following matters:
"Permitted Encumbrances"
     (a) such items as set forth in
Schedule 1.01E;
     (b) any (i) undetermined or inchoate liens or charges constituting or securing the payment of expenses which were incurred incidental to the conduct of the Operations or the operation, repair, construction, improvement or maintenance of the Purchased Assets and (ii) materialman's, mechanics', repairman's, employees', contractors', operators' or other similar liens, security interests or charges for liquidated amounts arising in the ordinary course of Operations incidental to the conduct of the Operations or the operation, repair, construction, improvement or maintenance of the Purchased Assets, securing amounts the payment of which is not delinquent and that will be paid by Seller in the ordinary course of Operations or, if delinquent, that are being contested in good faith with any action to foreclose or attach any of the Purchased Assets on account thereof properly stayed; provided, that, Seller shall be responsible for, and shall promptly pay when due, all amounts finally determined to be owed that are the subject of such contest, other than amounts which are the obligation of Buyer pursuant to this Agreement;
     (c) any Liens for Taxes not yet delinquent or, if delinquent, that are being contested by Seller or its Affiliates in good faith with any pending action to foreclose any of the Purchased Assets on account thereof properly stayed; provided, that, Seller shall be responsible for, and shall promptly pay when due, all amounts finally determined to be owed that are the subject of such contest, other than amounts which are the obligation of Buyer pursuant to this Agreement;
     (d) any Liens created by Law or which arise from leases, easements, rights-of-way or other real property interests for rental or for compliance with the terms of such leases, rights-of- way or other real property interests, provided all payments by Seller of the debt secured is not delinquent or, if delinquent, is being contested by Seller in good faith in the ordinary course of Operations with any action to foreclose or attach any of the Purchased Assets on account thereof properly stayed; provided, that, Seller shall be responsible for, and shall promptly pay or perform when due, all amounts or obligations finally determined to be owed that are the subject of such contest, other than amounts which are the obligation of Buyer pursuant to this Agreement;
     (e) all reservations of record of minerals (without right of surface entry) in and under or that may be produced from any of the lands constituting part of the Real Property or on which any of the Purchased Assets are located, other than mineral reservations that materially interfere with the Operations;
     (f) all easements, rights-of-way and restrictive covenants of record, and all discrepancies, shortages in area, conflicts in boundary lines, encroachments or protrusions, or overlapping of improvements, defects, irregularities and other matters affecting the Real Property or the Improvements which individually or in the aggregate do not (i) have a Material Adverse Effect on the ordinary operations of the Refinery as conducted by Seller on an historical basis for the twelve (12) months prior to the Closing Date or (ii) have a Material Adverse Effect on the value of the Refinery taken as a whole as of the Closing Date;
 
     (g) any defect that has been cured by the applicable statutes of limitations or statutes for prescription;
     (h) any defect affecting (or the termination or expiration of) any easement, right-of-way, leasehold interest, license or other real property interest which has been replaced prior to Closing at Seller's sole cost by an easement, right-of-way, leasehold interest, license or other real property interest of record constituting part of the Purchased Assets covering substantially the same rights to use the land or the portion thereof used by Seller in connection with the Operations;
     (i) rights reserved to or vested in any Governmental Authority to control or regulate any of the Purchased Assets or the Operations and all Applicable Laws of such authorities, including any building or zoning ordinances and all HSE Laws;
     (k) existing leases, licenses and similar agreements to the extent such constitute assumed Contracts;
     (l) the exposure restrictions contained in the deeds attached hereto as
Exhibit B;
     (m) the limitations on use of certain parcels of the Real Property for, residential, agricultural and day care uses, all as more particularly described in the deeds attached hereto as
inter alia,
Exhibit B;
     (n) acts done or suffered to be done by, and judgments against, Buyer and those claiming by, through or under Buyer;
     (o) any agreement or contract entered into by the Parties in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or the Related Agreements; and
     (p) all matters of record as of the date hereof but excluding any monetary Liens, purchase options and rights of first refusal, excepting there from all Taxes and assessment liens which are not yet due and payable and which shall be prorated at the Closing pursuant to
Section 14.02.
     means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, trust, limited liability company or any other entity or organization, including a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof.
"Person"
     means the Equipment, Rolling Stock, and other tangible personal property owned or leased by Seller and used or held for use primarily in the Operations (including idle personal property located at the Refinery that has been used primarily in the Operations), as of the Effective Time, including those items set forth in
"Personal Property"
Schedule 1.01F.
     means (i) those certain intrastate pipelines currently operated by Seller and its Affiliates for the delivery or receipt of feedstock or product to or from the Refinery, whether owned by Seller or any of Seller's Affiliates, set forth in , and (ii) all related off-site meters and equipment (excluding meters located at Seller's terminal located in Carson, California).
"Pipeline Assets"
Schedule 1.01G
     means all easements, licenses and rights of way of Seller described in
"Pipeline Easements"
Schedule 4.04(d).
     has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(f) on
"Post-Retirement Funds"
Schedule 10.01.
 
     has the meaning set forth in
"Processing Unit Real Property"
Section 2.08(a)(ii).
     means the properties, assets and rights of every nature, kind and description, tangible and intangible (including goodwill), whether real, personal or mixed, whether accrued, contingent or otherwise and whether now existing or hereafter acquired which are primarily used or held for use by Seller at the Refinery, or in connection with the Operations, as the same may exist on the date hereof and on the Closing Date. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "Purchased Assets" includes the Real Property, the Improvements, the Personal Property, the Pipeline Assets, the Refinery Records, the Emissions Credits, the Kinder Morgan Pipeline Histories, and the Inventories, but excludes the Excluded Assets.
"Purchased Assets"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Purchase Price"
Section 2.03.
     means the Refinery Real Property, the SRP Real Property, the LBT Real Property and the Pipeline Easements.
"Real Property"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Receiving Party"
Section 17.14.
     means the crude oil refinery and related equipment and facilities of Seller located on the Real Property including the Improvements. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "Refinery" includes the Long Beach Terminal, the Wilmington Terminal and the Sulfur Plant, and excludes the Blend Plant Assets.
"Refinery"
     has the meaning set forth in on Schedule 10.01.
"Refinery Collective Bargaining Agreement"
Section 10.02
     means the tract(s) (or parcel(s)) of land described on together with all easements, appurtenances, rights and leases, and other hereditaments appurtenant to such land and all the estates and rights of Seller in and to such land and all other easements, rights of way, licenses and similar rights used exclusively in connection with the Operations, in each case subject to Permitted Encumbrances. For the avoidance of doubt, the Blend Plant Real Property is not included in the definition of "Refinery Real Property" except to the extent appropriate for purposes of .
"Refinery Real Property"
Schedule 4.04(a)
Section 2.08
     means all operating records and data in the possession of Seller or any of Seller's Affiliates and relating primarily to and necessary for the Operations subject to Seller's record retention policy, including all books, records, cost and pricing information, accounting records, supplier lists and records, training materials and equipment, training records (including certifications), maintenance and inspection reports, equipment lists, repair notes and archives, and technical drawings. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, "Refinery Records" specifically excludes (i) any of Seller's or its Affiliates' business plans, strategies and financial records that address or reflect activities outside of the Operations; (ii) any of Seller's or its Affiliates' company minute books and records, Tax Returns or other materials that do not pertain to the Purchased Assets or ongoing day-to-day operation of the Operations; (iii) personnel or medical records for which the Transferred Employee's written consent to the release of such record is not obtained; (iv) hiring exams for Refinery operators; and (v) materials that are subject to any applicable legal privileges.
"Refinery Records"
     means the agreements listed in and any other agreements or documents executed in connection with or as required under this Agreement but excluding the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement and any agreements or documents executed in connection with or as required under the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement.
"Related Agreements"
Section 3.02
 
     has the meaning set forth in on
"Represented Employee"
Section 10.01 (a)
Schedule 10.01.
     means that certain Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of even date herewith between Buyer and Seller and relating to the purchase by Buyer from Seller of Seller's interest in and to approximately 250 retail gasoline stations located in the Southern California region.
"Retail Asset Purchase Agreement"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Retail Closing"
Section 11.12.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Retained Liabilities"
Section 2.05(c).
     means all vehicles, trucks, tractors, trailers, and rail cars, all whether owned, leased or subject to a contract of purchase and sale, or lease commitment, that are primarily used by Seller in the Operations, excluding trucks and trailers used for delivery of refined petroleum products to retail gasoline stations. The rail cars that are included in the term "Rolling Stock" are set forth in
"Rolling Stock"
Schedule 1.01H.
     has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
"Seller"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Seller Environmental Policies"
Section 7.06.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Seller Indemnified Party(ies)"
Section 13.01.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Seller Threshold Amount"
Section 13.09.
     has the meaning set forth in on
"Severance Benefit"
Section 10.04(e)
Schedule 10.01.
     means computer software including computer programs, applications and databases in any form, including source code and object code, operating systems and specifications, firmware, data, databases, database management code, utilities, graphical user interfaces, menus, images, icons, forms, methods of processing, software engines, platforms, data formats, internet web sites, web content and links, all versions, updates, corrections, enhancements and modifications thereof, and all related documentation, developer notes, comments and annotations.
"Software"
     means the tract(s) (or parcel(s)) of land described on together with all easements, appurtenances, rights and leases, and other hereditaments appurtenant to such land and all the estates and rights of Seller in and to such land, subject to Permitted Encumbrances.
"SRP Real Property"
Schedule 4.04(b)
     of a Person means (i) any corporation more than 50% of the outstanding securities having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or (ii) any partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or similar business organization more than 50% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.
"Subsidiary"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Subdivision Condition"
Section 2.08(a)(iii).
     means the sulfur recovery plant at the SRP Real Property and all related Improvements and Personal Property.
"Sulfur Plant"
     means taken by condemnation or eminent domain or by agreement in lieu thereof with any Person authorized to exercise such rights.
"Taking"
 
     has the meaning set forth in
"Tax Allocation"
Section 14.04.
     means all United States federal, state, local or foreign income, profits, gross receipts, windfall profits, severance, real or personal property, intangible property, occupation, production, franchise, capital gains, employment, withholding, social security (or similar), disability, registration, stamp, payroll, goods and services, alternative or add-on minimum tax, or any other taxes, charges, fees, imposts, duties, levies, withholdings or other assessments imposed by any governmental entity, including environmental taxes imposed pursuant to Chapter 38 of the Code, and similar state laws, excise taxes, customs duties, utility, property, sales, use, value added, transfer and fuel taxes, or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, together with any interest, fines, penalties or additions to tax attributable to or imposed on or in respect thereof imposed by any Governmental Authority, whether or not disputed, including all applicable sales, use, excise, business, occupation or other tax, if any, relating to this or any other service, supply or operating agreement.
"Taxes"
     means any return, declaration, report or similar statement required to be filed with respect to any Taxes (including any attached schedules) including any information return, claim for refund, amended return and declaration of estimated Taxes.
"Tax Return"
     has the meaning set forth in
"Termination Date"
Section 15.01.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Title Company"
Section 8.11.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Title Policies"
Section 8.11.
     means, with respect to the Real Property:
"Title Policy Exceptions"
     (a) all matters of record as of the date hereof that are set forth in Schedule B of the title commitments for the Title Policies but excluding any monetary Liens, purchase options and rights of first refusal, excepting there from all Taxes and assessment liens which are not yet due and payable and which shall be prorated at the Closing pursuant to
Section 14.02;
     (b) all discrepancies, shortages in area, conflicts in boundary lines, encroachments or protrusions, or overlapping of improvements, defects, irregularities and other matters affecting the Real Property or the Improvements which individually or in the aggregate do not (i) have a Material Adverse Effect on the ordinary operations of the Refinery as conducted by Seller on an historical basis for the twelve (12) months prior to the Closing Date or (ii) have a Material Adverse Effect on the value of the Refinery taken as a whole as of the Closing Date;
     (c) existing leases, licenses and similar agreements to the extent such constitute Contracts assumed by Buyer;
     (d) acts done or suffered to be done by, and judgments against, Buyer and those claiming by, through or under Buyer; and
     (e) any agreement or contract entered into by the Parties in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or the Related Agreements.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Third Party Claim"
Section 13.06(a).
 
     means improvements, equipment, inventory and any other tangible personal property located on the Real Property as of the Effective Time that arc not owned by or leased or rented to Seller, including those items listed on
"Third Party Property"
Schedule 1.011.
     means with regard to Seller and Shell Trademark Management BV: (i) any and all trademarks, trademark registrations, trademark applications, service marks, service mark registrations, service mark applications, trade dress, word marks, word mark registrations, word mark applications and trade names owned by Seller or Shell Trademark Management BV, including the name Shell, and the Shell emblem and logos used by or licensed to Seller in connection with any of the Operations; and (ii) the goodwill of the Operations in connection with which such Trademarks have been used.
"Trademarks"
     has the meaning set forth in on
"Transferred Employee"
Section 10.03(c)
Schedule 10.01.
     has the meaning of
"Transition Services Agreement"
Section 8.03.
     has the meaning of
"TTA"
Section 9.01.
     has the meaning set forth in
"Turnaround Activities"
Section 6.05.
     or its derivative words means make, use, have made and sell, offer to sell, import, export and reproduce, distribute, publicly perform, publicly display and make a derivative work.
"Use"
     has the meaning set forth in on
"USW"
Section 10.02
Schedule 10.01.
     has the meaning set forth in on
"WARN Act"
Section 10.05(a)
Schedule 10.01.
     has the meaning set forth in on
"Wilmington Collective Bargaining Agreement"
Section 10.02
Schedule 10.01.
     means that certain refined products loading rack terminal commonly referred to as the "Wilmington Terminal" which is located on the Refinery Real Property.
"Wilmington Terminal"
      Unless expressly provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with the following provisions:
1.02
Interpretation.
               (a) All references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules are to Articles and Sections of and Exhibits and Schedules attached to and forming part of this Agreement, unless the contrary is specifically stated;
               (b) The headings of the Articles, Sections and subsections of this Agreement and the headings contained in the Exhibits and Schedules hereto are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not in any way define or affect the meaning, construction, or scope of any of the provisions hereof or thereof;
               (c) a defined term has its defined meaning throughout this Agreement and each Exhibit and Schedule to this Agreement, regardless of whether it appears before or after the place where it is defined;
               (d) In the event of any conflict between the main body of this Agreement and the Exhibits and Schedules hereto, the provisions of the main body of this Agreement shall prevail;
 
               (e) Except where specifically stated otherwise, any reference to any statute, regulation, rule, or agreement shall be a reference to the same as amended, supplemented or re-enacted from time to time;
               (f) Whenever the words "include," "including." or "includes" appear in this Agreement, they shall be read as if followed by the words "without limitation" or words having similar import;
               (g) Whenever the context may require, any pronoun used in this Agreement shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine, or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plural and vice versa;
               (h) A reference to any agreement or document (including a reference to this Agreement) is to the agreement or document as amended, varied, supplemented, novated or replaced, except to the extent prohibited by this Agreement or that other agreement or document;
               (i) A reference to any party to this Agreement or another agreement or document includes the party's permitted successors and assigns;
               (j) A reference to a writing includes a facsimile transmission of it and any means of reproducing of its words in a tangible and permanently visible form;
               (k) A reference to a statute, regulation or law shall include any amendment thereof or any successor thereto and any rules and regulations promulgated thereunder;
               (1) The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement;
               (m) The term "cost" includes expense and the term "expense" includes cost;
               (n) The word "or" will have the inclusive meaning represented by the phrase "and/or";
               (o) The phrase "and/or" when used in a conjunctive phrase, means any one or more of the Persons specified in or the existence or occurrence of any one or more of the events, conditions or circumstances set forth in that phrase; that when used to describe the obligation of one or more Persons to do any act, it means that the obligation is the obligation of each of the Persons but that it may be satisfied by performance by any one or more of them;
provided, however,
               (p) "Shall" and "will" have equal force and effect;
               (q) Unless otherwise specified, all references to a specific time of day in this Agreement shall be based upon Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Savings Time, as applicable on the date in question in Houston, Texas;
               (r) References to "$" or to "dollars" means the lawful currency of the United States of America; and
               (s) All references to "day" or "days" means calendar days unless specified as a "Business Day".
 
      Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Seller agrees to sell, assign, convey, transfer and deliver (or make available pursuant to or or cause such sale, assignment, conveyance, transfer and delivery by Seller's Affiliates, to Buyer, as of the Effective Time, and Buyer agrees to purchase and take assignment and delivery from Seller as of the Effective Time, of all of Seller's right, title and interest in and to the Purchased Assets.
2.1
Purchase and Sale.
Section 8.02
ARTICLE IX),
      The Purchased Assets shall not include any Excluded Assets. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Seller (or, as applicable, any Affiliate of Seller) shall retain and not sell, convey, transfer or deliver to Buyer, and Buyer shall not purchase or have any rights in, the Excluded Assets. To the extent that any Excluded Assets remain located at the Refinery or any other owned or leased real property constituting part of the Purchased Assets after the Closing Date, (a) with respect to those Excluded Assets Seller will remove from the Refinery, Buyer shall grant to Seller and its Affiliates and their respective representatives reasonable access to such property from and after the Closing Date for a reasonable period of time not to exceed one hundred-eighty (180) days to permit Seller and such persons to review and remove such Excluded Assets and make any other appropriate arrangements with respect thereto, and (b) with respect to those Excluded Assets that will remain at the Refinery, Buyer and Seller will enter into appropriate access agreements (pursuant to for Seller's access to such Excluded Assets. Seller agrees that it will consult with Buyer in advance of taking any such actions following the Closing Date with a view towards establishing a mutually agreeable plan for such review and removal so that these actions will not unreasonably interfere with the normal operation of the Refinery.
2.2
Excluded Assets.
Section 7.03)
      In consideration for the Purchased Assets and the assets sold and purchased pursuant to the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement: Buyer shall pay and perform the following (collectively, the
2.3
Purchase Price.
"Purchase Price"):
          (A) Pay ONE BILLION SIX HUNDRED THIRTY MILLION DOLLARS ($1,630,000,000) (the subject to adjustment pursuant to plus
"Closing Dale Payment"),
Section 2.07:
          (B) Pay the purchase price for the Hydrocarbon Inventory which shall be determined and paid pursuant to plus
Section 2.06;
          (C) Assume and agree to pay and perform and discharge when due the Assumed Liabilities as more particularly set forth in
Section 2.05(a).
      All amounts to be disbursed pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall be made in immediately available U.S. funds, by wire transfer (i) to a U.S. bank account designated by Seller or by any other means acceptable to Seller if payable to Seller and (ii) to a U.S. bank account designated by Buyer or by any other means acceptable to by Buyer if payable to Buyer.
2.4
Method of Payment.
     
2.5
Assumed Liabilities and Retained Liabilities.
               (a) As of the Effective Time, Buyer shall, without any further action on the part of Buyer or Seller, assume and agree to pay, perform and discharge when due, subject to the other provisions of this Agreement and the Related Agreements, each of the following Obligations
 
(collectively, the (provided that the Assumed Liabilities shall not include the Retained Liabilities):
"Assumed Liabilities"
)
          (i) all Obligations to the extent arising out of, incurred in connection with or related to the ownership or use of the Purchased Assets or the operation of the Refinery after the Effective Time (excluding all Obligations related to or arising from HSE Laws which are addressed in the HSE Agreement); and
          (ii) all Obligations of Seller or any of its Affiliates to the extent arising out of, incurred in connection with or related to the Contracts (excluding the Excluded Contracts) but only such Obligations for goods or services received by or on behalf of Buyer after the Effective Time or are otherwise performable on or after the Effective Time.
               (b) Buyer is not assuming, nor shall Buyer be deemed to have assumed, any Obligation of Seller or its Affiliates of any kind or nature whatsoever, except as expressly provided in this Section or as otherwise expressly provided for in this Agreement or in the Related Agreements. Without limiting the forgoing, Buyer is not assuming Contracts or Obligations that by their terms are not assignable to Buyer except that the process described in shall be followed where permitted.
Section 8.02(b)
               (c) Seller shall retain and agree to pay, perform and discharge when due, subject to the other provisions of this Agreement and the Related Agreements, all Obligations of Seller not specifically assumed by Buyer herein (excluding all Obligations related to or arising from HSE Laws which are addressed in the HSE Agreement) (collectively, the
"Retained Liabilities"
).
     
2.06
Hydrocarbon Inventory.
               (a) Seller shall make a good faith estimate five (5) Business Days prior to the Closing Date of the estimated value of the Hydrocarbon Inventory as of such date and provide a copy thereof to Buyer setting forth the ownership, types, characteristics and volumes, on a tank, trunk, pipeline or other location basis, of all Hydrocarbon Inventory. Seller shall value the Hydrocarbon Inventory in accordance with the measurement procedures set forth in and in accordance with the valuation procedures set forth in Buyer shall be permitted to have representatives present to observe any measurements taken by Seller. At the Closing, Buyer shall pay Seller an amount (the equal to 90% of such estimated Inventory Value as reasonably estimated by Seller five (5) Business Days prior to the Closing Date.
Exhibit A-l
Exhibit A-2.
)
"Inventory Deposit"
               (b) An independent inspector (the shall be engaged by agreement of Seller and Buyer. The Field Inspector shall measure the Hydrocarbon Inventory as of Effective Time at the respective locations of the Hydrocarbon Inventory on the Closing Date. The Hydrocarbon Inventory shall be measured by the Field Inspector in accordance with the procedures set forth in The Field Inspector shall issue a written report (the to both Buyer and Seller within ten (10) Business Days after the Closing Date setting forth the volumes and quantities of the Hydrocarbon Inventory as of the Effective Time. The fees and expenses of the Field Inspector shall be borne fifty percent (50%) by Seller and fifty percent (50%) by Buyer.
"Field Inspector"
)
Exhibit A-l.
"Field Inspector Report"
)
               (c) As soon as practicable, but in any event no later than ten (10) days following receipt of the Field Inspector Report, Seller shall cause to be prepared and delivered to Buyer a statement, together with supporting calculations and information (the setting forth the volume of the Hydrocarbon Inventory as measured by the Field Inspector as of the Effective Time and the value of the Hydrocarbon Inventory (the which shall be determined in
"Inventory Statement"
)
"Inventory Value"
),
 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Buyer shall give Seller notice of its acceptance of or objection to the computations in the Inventory Statement no later than twenty (20) days following its receipt of the Inventory Statement (the date of Seller's receipt of such acceptance or rejection, or the expiration of such 20 day period with no notice having been given, shall be the If Buyer fails to give such notice before the end of such twenty (20) day period, then the Inventory Statement will be deemed final and binding upon the Parties. If Buyer gives such notice to Seller of Buyer's objection within such twenty (20) days, and Buyer and Seller are unable to resolve the issues in dispute within seven (7) days after delivery of such notice of objection, each of Buyer's and Seller's positions with respect to the computation of the Inventory Value will be submitted to an independent and qualified party mutually selected by the Parties (the such as an accounting firm or independent inspector, for final resolution. If the computation of the Inventory Value is submitted to the Inspector for resolution, (x) each Party will furnish to the Inspector such work papers and other documents and information relating to the disputed issues as the Inspector may request and are available to that Party, and will be afforded the opportunity to present to the Inspector any material relating to such issues and to discuss the same with the Inspector; (y) the Inspector's determination or computation of the Inventory Value shall be binding and conclusive on the Parties and will be deemed to be the final Inventory Value (and judgment thereupon may be entered in any court having jurisdiction over the Party against which the same is sought to be enforced); and (z) the fees and expenses of the Inspector for such determination will be borne fifty percent (50%) by Seller and fifty percent (50%) by Buyer.
Exhibit A-2.
"Inventory Notice Date"
).
"Inspector"
)
               (d) If the sum of the Inventory Value minus the Inventory Deposit (the is greater than zero, then Buyer shall pay to Seller, without offset or deduction, an amount equal to the Inventory Balance by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account or accounts of Seller, as may be designated by Seller. If the amount of the Inventory Balance is less than zero, then Seller shall pay to Buyer, without offset or deduction, an amount equal to such deficit by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such account or accounts of Buyer, as may be designated by Buyer. All such undisputed amounts shall be paid by the relevant Party to the other Party within five (5) Business Days of the Inventory Notice Date. All disputed amounts shall be paid by the relevant Party to the other Party within five (5) Business Days of the resolution of such disputed amounts. All amounts payable pursuant to this (both disputed and undisputed amounts) shall bear interest from and including the date payment is scheduled to be made to, but excluding, the date of payment at a rate per annum equal to ten percent (10%) for the first thirty (30) days such payment is past due and at a rate per annum equal to fifteen percent (15%) for all subsequent periods such payment is past due, in either event not to exceed the maximum rate permitted by Applicable Law. Such interest shall be payable at the same time as the payment to which it relates and shall be calculated on the basis of a year of 365 days and the actual number of days for which due.
"Inventory Balance"
)
Section 2.06
               (e) Each Party agrees that, following the Closing, it shall not take any actions with respect to the accounting books, records, policies and procedures of itself or its Affiliates that would obstruct or prevent the preparation of the Inventory Statement as provided in this From the Closing through the final determination of the Inventory Value in accordance with this (i) Seller shall provide Buyer with access at all reasonable times to the personnel and working papers utilized in determining the Inventory Statement for purposes of confirming Seller's calculation of same and (ii) Seller and Buyer shall provide one another access at all reasonable times to the personnel, properties, and books and records of the Refinery for purposes of determining the Inventory Value, including permitting the Parties and their respective advisors to participate in the taking of the physical inventory. The Parties shall cooperate with each other in the preparation of the Inventory Statement, if requested by another Party.
Section 2.06.
Section 2.0.6,
 
               (f) Except as expressly set forth in this , Buyer and Seller shall each bear its own expenses incurred in connection with the preparation and review of the Inventory Statement.
Section 2.06
      At the Closing, the amount of the Closing Date Payment payable by Buyer shall be adjusted by the following:
2.07
Closing Adjustments.
               (a) Reduced by an amount equal to the credit, if any, payable pursuant to
Section 8.07(b);
               (b) Increased or reduced, as applicable, by an amount, if any, equal to the pro- ration of lease and rental payments pursuant to
Section 8.08(a);
               (c) Reduced by an amount, if any, equal to the pro-ration of property Taxes pursuant to ;
Sections 14.02 and 14.03
               (d) Increased or reduced, as applicable, as set forth in the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement; and
               (e) Increased or reduced, as applicable, by any other amounts agreed to in writing by the Parties.
     
2.08
Conveyance/Re-Conveyance of Blend Plant Property.
               (a) As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
          (i) means that certain portion of the Refinery Real Property labeled as "Parcel 1" on the subdivision map set forth in that contains the Blend Plant Personal Property together with all easements, appurtenances, rights and leases, and other hereditaments appurtenant to such land and all the estates and rights of Seller in and to said land.
"Blend Plant Real Property"
Schedule 2.08(a)
           (ii) means that portion of the Refinery Real Property other than the Blend Plant Real Property. The Processing Unit Real Property is the portion of the Refinery Real Property labeled as "Parcel 2" on the subdivision map set forth in .
"Processing Unit Real Property"
Schedule 2.08(a)
          (iii) means, and such condition shall be satisfied upon the occurrence of, either (i) the recordation of a map approved by the County of Los Angeles, State of California and any other applicable Governmental Authority that subdivides the Refinery Real Property into two parcels one of which shall consist of the Blend Plant Real Property and the other of which shall consist of the Processing Unit Real Property, or (ii) such other action as may be taken or approved by the County of Los Angeles and any other applicable Governmental Authority that allows the land comprising the Processing Unit Real Property to be conveyed independent of the Blend Plant Real Property, or the Blend Plant Real Property to be conveyed independent of the land comprising the Processing Unit Real Property, without violating the California Subdivision Map Act or any other Applicable Law.
"Subdivision Condition
"
               (b) During the Interim Period, Seller will prepare and file an application with the County of Los Angeles, State of California, or any other applicable Governing Authority to separately
 
plat the Blend Plant Real Property and the Processing Unit Real Property. Buyer shall have the right to review and approve such application prior to filing (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). Because of certain public notice, hearing and other legal requirements, the platting process may not be completed by the Closing Date, and therefore, the Subdivision Condition may not be satisfied as of the Closing Date. In the event the Subdivision Condition has not been satisfied as of the Closing Date, then, notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the entire Refinery Real Property (including the Blend Plant Real Property) shall be conveyed to Buyer at the Closing, subject, however to the following agreements:
          (i) from and after the Closing, each of Seller and Buyer shall use commercially reasonable efforts and cooperate with each other to facilitate the satisfaction of the Subdivision Condition as soon as practicable thereafter;
          (ii) Seller shall pay any filing fees and other governmental charges associated with completion of the platting process, including any incremental sales, use, transfer or similar Taxes, fees or charges that arise as a result of this and shall be responsible for paying for and fulfilling any and all conditions to approval imposed by the County of Los Angeles, State of California, or any other applicable Governing Authority in connection with the subdivision;
Section 2.08,
          (iii) each Party shall promptly take such action, execute such documents, and do so other things as may be reasonably necessary or expedient to complete the platting requirement and satisfy the Subdivision Condition, provided Buyer shall not incur, except as otherwise provided herein, any costs or obligations in connection therewith;
          (iv) Buyer shall have the right to approve, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, any restrictions or commitments that would materially affect Buyer's use of the Refinery Real Property after the satisfaction of the Subdivision Condition;
          (v) Buyer and Seller shall enter into and execute and deliver a Blend Plant Lease, substantially in the form of (the pursuant to which Buyer shall license the Blend Plant Real Property and lease the Blend Plant Improvements to Seller from the Closing Date until the Subdivision Condition has been satisfied; and
Exhibit D
"Blend Plant Lease"
)
          (vi) the Blend Plant Personal Property will be Excluded Assets and the Blend Plant Real Property and the Blend Plant Improvements will not be Excluded Assets until the Subdivision Condition is satisfied.
               (c) Promptly after the Subdivision Condition has been satisfied, Buyer shall execute and deliver to Seller without additional consideration, and Seller shall accept from Buyer, a grant deed (the covering the Blend Plant Real Property (including the Blend Plant Improvements) in form and content substantially similar to subject only to those matters to which the Blend Plant Real Property was subject on the Closing Date (as modified pursuant to real property rights granted pursuant to and subject to matters created or caused by Seller or any agreement or contract entered into by the Parties pursuant to this Agreement) and such other documents or instruments reasonably requested by Seller to evidence and effect the transfer and assignment to Seller of the Blend Plant Real Property and Blend Plant Improvements. Seller shall pay all recording fees for recording the Blend Plant Deed and such other transfer Taxes and documents.
"Blend Plant Deed"
)
Exhibit B
Section 2.08(f)
 
               (d) Upon such recording of the Blend Plant Deed, the Blend Plant Lease shall terminate and the Blend Plant Real Property and the Blend Plant Improvements will automatically become Excluded Assets.
               (e) Buyer agrees that it shall not lease the Blend Plant Real Property or the Blend Plant Improvements or grant or create any right, Lien or other encumbrance thereon that cannot and are not removed upon satisfaction of the Subdivision Condition or that are prior to Seller's right to purchase the Blend Plant Real Property and Blend Plant Improvements. In order to protect Seller's interest in the Blend Plant Real Property and the Blend Plant Improvements, Buyer shall execute and deliver to Seller at Closing a Memorandum of Right to Reconveyance (the substantially in the form of , to be recorded in the Official records of Los Angeles, California, immediately after the recordation of the Grant Deed that conveys the Refinery Real Property from Seller to Buyer and prior to any monetary Liens created by Buyer.
"Blend Plant Memorandum of Right to Reconveyance"
),
Exhibit E
               (f) Prior to the conveyance of the Blend Plant Real Property to Seller as contemplated hereunder, Buyer and Seller shall grant to each other such easements and rights of way on the Blend Plant Real Property and the Processing Unit Real Property the other party reasonably requests in connection with its ownership and operation of the Processing Unit Real Property and the Blend Plant Real Property, respectively.
                (g)  Buyer and Seller each acknowledge that, subject to the consideration for the conveyance and re-conveyance of the Blend Plant Real Property and the Blend Plant Improvements has been fully included in the Purchase Price, and that no further consideration shall be paid by Buyer to Seller in the event the Blend Plant Real Property is conveyed to Buyer at the Closing and no further consideration shall be paid by Seller to Buyer upon the re-conveyance of the Blend Plant Real Property and the Blend Plant Improvements upon satisfaction of the Subdivision Condition.
Section 2.08(b)(ii),
      Subject to the Parties' satisfaction or waiver of the conditions precedent set forth in and the Closing shall take place at 11:00 a.m., Central Time, at the offices of Seller's counsel at 1301 McKinney, Suite 5100, Houston, TX 77002, on a Business Day that is either five (5) Business Days after the later of (i) the expiration of the waiting period, or any extension thereof (without challenge), provided for in the HSR Act or (ii) completion of the Turnaround Activities as provided pursuant to or on any later date on or prior to the Termination Date as the Parties may otherwise agree.
3.01
Place and Time.
ARTICLE XI
ARTICLE XII,
Section 11.11,
     
3.02
Transactions and Deliveries at or Prior to Closing.
               (a) 
At the Closing, Seller shall deliver to Buyer the following:
          (i) duly-executed grant deed(s) for the Refinery Real Property and the SRP Real Property, substantially in the form of , conveying fee simple title to the Refinery Real Property and the SRP Real Property, respectively, subject to the Permitted Encumbrances (in the event the Subdivision Condition has not been satisfied as of the Closing Date then the grant deed for the Refinery Real Property shall include the Blend Plant Real Property);
Exhibit B
 
          (ii) appropriately executed instruments of sale, assignment, transfer and conveyance evidencing and effecting the sale and transfer to Buyer of the Purchased Assets (it being expressly understood by the Parties, however, that such instruments shall not require Seller or any other Person to make any additional representations, warranties or covenants, express or implied, not contained in this Agreement or the Related Agreements);
          (iii) a certificate dated as of the Closing Date and signed by an authorized officer of Seller, certifying as to (A) the fulfillment by Seller of the conditions set forth in and (B) the non-occurrence, to Seller's Knowledge, of material adverse changes to the Purchased Assets or the Operations to the extent provided pursuant to
Sections 11.01 and 11.02
Section 11.07;
          (iv) an instrument to transfer and assign to Buyer, effective as of the Closing, the Kinder Morgan Line Histories;
          (v) copies of the resolutions of Seller and each Affiliate that is a party to a Related Agreement, certified as being correct and complete and then in full force and effect, authorizing the execution of this Agreement and the Related Agreements to which it is a party and the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions and the Related Agreements to which it is a party (in each case to the extent required by such Person's Organizational Documents);
          (vi) an incumbency certificate, duly executed by an authorized officer of Seller attesting to the due appointment and authorization of individuals signing this Agreement on behalf of Seller, any agreement contemplated hereby or any agreement related to the Contemplated Transactions;
          (vii) a short-form Good Standing Certificate issued by the Secretary of State for the State of Delaware in respect of Seller;
          (viii) a current certificate of Seller's qualification to do business in California;
          (ix) the affidavit referred to in Section 1445(b)(2) of the Code in customary form;
          (x) copies of all consents and authorizations to assignments of Contracts and Permits, Intellectual Property and Licensed Technology Rights obtained by Seller as contemplated hereunder.
          (xi) grants of Intellectual Property as set forth in
ARTICLE IX;
          (xii) any other documents, instruments or agreements contemplated hereby or reasonably necessary or appropriate to consummate the Contemplated Transactions (it being expressly understood by the Parties, however, that such instruments shall not require Seller or any other Person to make any additional representations, warranties or covenants, express or implied, not contained in or as contemplated by this Agreement or the Related Agreements); and
          (xiii) all rights of ownership and possession of the Purchased Assets.
 
     (b) 
At the Closing, Buyer shall deliver to Seller the following:
          (i) the payments specified in
Section 2.03;
          (ii) instruments of assumption evidencing and effecting the assumption by Buyer of the Assumed Liabilities and such other documents as are required by this Agreement or the Related Agreements (it being expressly understood by the Parties, however, that such instruments shall not require Buyer or any other Person to make any additional representations, warranties or covenants, express or implied, not contained in or as contemplated by this Agreement or the Related Agreements);
          (iii) a certificate dated as of the Closing Date and signed by an authorized officer of Buyer, certifying as to the fulfillment of the conditions set forth in
Sections 12.01 and 12.02;
          (iv) copies of the resolutions of Buyer and its Affiliate that is a party to a Related Agreement, certified as being correct and complete and then in full force and effect, authorizing the execution of this Agreement and the Related Agreements to which it is a party, and the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions to which it is a party (in each case to the extent required by such Person's Organizational Documents);
          (v) an incumbency certificate, duly executed by authorized officers of Buyer attesting to the due appointment and authorization of individuals signing this Agreement on behalf of Buyer, any agreement contemplated hereby or any agreement related to the Contemplated Transactions;
          (vi) a short-form Good Standing Certificate issued by the Secretary of State for the State of Delaware in respect of Buyer:
          (vii) current certificates of Buyer's qualification to do business and good standing in California;
          (viii) a resale certificate and any other certificates or instruments necessary for the sale and transfer of the Inventory without any sales, excise or use Taxes of any Governmental Authority all to be in form reasonably satisfactory to Seller; and
          (ix) any other documents, instruments or agreements contemplated hereby or reasonably necessary or appropriate to consummate the Contemplated Transactions (it being expressly understood by the Parties, however, that such instruments shall not require Buyer or any other Person to make any additional representations, warranties or covenants, express or implied, not contained in or as contemplated by this Agreement or the Related Agreements).
                (c) 
At the Closing, Seller or Seller's Affiliates and Buyer shall enter into and deliver to each other the following agreements:
          (i) an Assignment and Assumption of Lease, substantially in the form of assigning and transferring the LBT Lease to Buyer;
Exhibit C,
           (ii) the Blend Plant Lease, substantially in the form of , in the event the Subdivision Condition has not been satisfied as of the Closing Date;
Exhibit D
 
          (iii) a Transition Services Agreement, substantially in the form of
Exhibit F;
          (iv) an HSE Agreement, substantially in the form of (the
Exhibit G
"HSE Agreement"
);
          (v) a Blend Plant Shared Services Agreement, substantially in the form of
Exhibit H;
          (vi) the Blend Plant Memorandum of Right to Reconveyance;
          (vii) each of the following Commercial Agreements:
(A) a Crude Supply Agreement, substantially in the form of
Exhibit I;
(B) a Product Purchase Agreement, substantially in the form of
Exhibit J;
(C) a Terminalling Agreement, substantially in the form of
Exhibit K;
(D) a Products Exchange Agreement, substantially in the form of and
Exhibit L;
          (viii) any other documents, instruments or agreements contemplated hereby or reasonably necessary or appropriate to consummate the Contemplated Transactions.
               (d) All of the transactions identified in this shall occur simultaneously, and none shall be deemed completed until all are completed.
Section 3.02
      Unless otherwise expressly provided for herein, possession and control of operations, risk of loss, and transfer of title to the Purchased Assets from Sellers to Buyer shall be effective as of 11:59:59 p.m. Pacific Time on the Closing Date (the
3.03
Possession and Control.
"Effective Time"
).
Except for matters set forth in the Schedules referred to below, subject to Seller hereby represents and warrants to Buyer as follows:
Section 17.08,
      Seller is a limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with full limited liability company power and authority to carry on its business and to own or lease and to operate its properties as and in the places where such business is conducted and such properties are owned, leased or operated.
4.1
Organization and Good Standing.
      Seller has full limited liability company power and authority to execute, deliver and enter into this Agreement, the Related Agreements and the Contemplated Transactions, to
4.2
Authority.
 
fully perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the Contemplated Transactions. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Related Agreements and the Contemplated Transactions have been duly authorized by all requisite limited liability company action of Seller and this Agreement, the Related Agreements and the Contemplated Transactions have been duly executed and delivered by Seller and constitute legal, valid and binding agreements of Seller enforceable against Seller in accordance with respective terms, except as such enforceability is limited by general principles of equity and applicable provisions of bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or similar laws (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
      Except for (i) the HSR Act, (ii) obtaining the consents and waivers set forth in (iii) as otherwise contemplated in this Agreement and in the Related Agreements, and (iv) such consents and waivers that, if not obtained prior to the Effective Time as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, then the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Related Agreements and the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions and the compliance by Seller with any of the provisions hereof and thereof does not and will not (A) violate or conflict with, or result in a breach of, any provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in the creation of any Lien upon the Purchased Assets under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of the Organizational Documents of Seller or under any Contract to which Seller is a party, or by which the Purchased Assets are otherwise bound, (B) violate any Applicable Law to which Seller is subject, or by which Seller or its assets or properties may be bound or (C) require the consent or approval of any third party Person.
4.3
No Breach, Conflict.
Schedule 4.03,
     
4.4
Real Property.
               (a)  sets forth a complete and correct legal description of the real property included in the Refinery Real Property.
Schedule 4.04(a)
               (b)  sets forth a complete and correct legal description of the real property included in the SRP Real Property except for matters as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 4.04(b)
               (c)  sets forth a complete and correct legal description of the real property included in the LBT Lease except for matters as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 4.04(c)
               (d)  sets forth a complete and correct description of the easements, licenses and rights of way of Seller uses in the operation of the Pipeline Assets except for matters as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 4.04(d)
               (e) Schedules 4.04(a). 4.04(b). and 4.04(c) list of all the real property used or held for use in the Operations. No portion of the Real Property is leased by or to Seller except as set forth in the LBT Lease and as set forth in
Schedule 1.01E.
               (f) All water, sewer, gas, electric, telephone and drainage facilities and all other utilities necessary for the Operations are adequately available to service the Real Property and the Operations (this is not a representation or warranty that such utilities will continue to be available to Buyer after the Closing).
 
                    (g) The Real Property (excluding Pipeline Easements) has access to a public street adjoining such Real Property, and such access is not dependent upon any land or other real property interest that is not included in such Real Property.
                    (h) Seller has not received any written notice of any pending or, to Seller's Knowledge, contemplated special assessment or reassessment of any parcel included in the Real Property that would result in a material increase in the real property Taxes with respect to such parcel excluding any reassessment of the parcels included in the Real Property related to the Contemplated Transactions.
                    (i) Except as set forth in there are no pending, or to Seller's Knowledge, threatened condemnation or eminent domain proceedings or contemplated sales in lieu thereof, involving a partial or total taking of any of the Real Property.
Schedule 4.04(i),
      Seller has not retained any broker or finder or incurred any liability or obligation for any brokerage fees, commissions, finder's fees or similar compensation with respect to this Agreement, the Related Agreements or the Contemplated Transactions.
4.05
Brokers.
      Except as set forth in , Seller has good and indefeasible title to, or a valid leasehold interest in, all of the Purchased Assets, except for Purchased Assets sold, consumed or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business in accordance with the procedures set forth in and consistent with past practices, free and clear of any Liens, other than Permitted Encumbrances. The Permitted Encumbrances and the matters set forth in do not constitute a Material Adverse Effect.
4.06
Title.
Schedule 4.06
Section 6.02
Schedule 4.06
      Other than with respect to HSE Laws (which are addressed in the HSE Agreement), the Purchased Assets and the Operations are in compliance with all Applicable Laws, as they are currently enforced, except for violations, non-compliance or other matters, if any, that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
4.07
Compliance With Laws.
      contains a true and complete list of Seller's material Permits (excluding HSE Permits) used in connection with the Purchased Assets or the Operations as of the date of this Agreement; Seller is not making any representation or warranty that any such Permits can be transferred as of the Effective Time or can be maintained by Buyer from and after the Closing. The Permits set forth in are all of the Permits (excluding HSE Permits) which are necessary for the Operations as of the date of this Agreement except for such Permits with respect to which the failure to possess would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. Seller has performed all obligations required to be performed by it to date under the Permits set forth in and is not in default under any Obligation of any such Permits, except where such default would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
4.08
Permits.
Schedule 4.08
provided, however,
Schedule 4.08
Schedule 4.08,
      Except for such matters as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and except as set forth in the
4.09
Actions and Proceedings.
Schedule 4.09:
                    (a) there is no Claim (excluding HSE Claims which are addressed in the HSE Agreement), action, suit, demand, proceeding, arbitration, grievance, citation, summons, subpoena or, to Seller's Knowledge, any inquiry or investigation, of any nature, civil, criminal, regulatory or otherwise, in law or in equity, pending, or to Seller's Knowledge, threatened against Seller or any of Seller's Affiliates involving or affecting the Purchased Assets or the Operations, and there are no Judgments (excluding Judgments related to HSE Laws which are addressed in the HSE Agreement) outstanding against Seller or any of Seller's Affiliates relating to or affecting the Purchased Assets; and
 
                    (b) no Claim, action, suit, demand, proceeding, arbitration, grievance, citation, summons, subpoena or to Seller's Knowledge any inquiry or investigation, of any nature, civil, criminal, administrative, regulatory or otherwise, in law or in equity, that is pending, or to Seller's Knowledge, threatened seeking to restrain or prohibit this Agreement, the Related Agreements or any agreement, instrument or transaction contemplated hereby or thereby, or to obtain damages, a discovery order or other relief in connection with this Agreement, the Related Agreements or the Contemplated Transactions.
      contains an accurate and complete list of each Contract as of the date of this Agreement but not otherwise listed in to which Seller or any of its Affiliates is a party and that requires total payments to or by Seller or any of its Affiliates of at least Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) annually relating to the Operations or by which any of the Purchased Assets are bound (other than crude contracts, product contracts, and transportation contracts (the The LBT Lease shall be deemed to be included in the definition of Commitments. Seller has delivered to Buyer accurate and complete copies of all written Commitments, together with all amendments thereto, and accurate descriptions of all material terms of all oral Commitments, set forth in . Each Commitment is in full force and effect and is a legal, valid and binding obligation of Seller, enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms (and to the Knowledge of Seller, against each counterparty thereto), except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity). Except as specified in , Seller is not, nor, to Seller's Knowledge, is any other party thereto, in default under any of the Commitments where such defaults would result in a Material Adverse Effect. Except as specified in Seller has not received written notice of any actual or threatened cancellation or termination of any Commitment from any party thereto. Seller shall be permitted to supplement and amend prior to the Closing with Commitments to which Seller has entered in the normal course of business between the date of this Agreement and the Closing.
4.10
Contracts and Commitments.
Schedule 4.10
Schedule 1.01 C  Excluded Contracts
"Commitments").
Schedule 4.10
Schedule 4.10
Schedule 4.10,
Schedule 4.10
      Subject to the provisions of the tangible Purchased Assets will be as of the Closing in substantially the same condition and repair,ordinary wear and tear excepted, as of the date of this Agreement. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, SELLER HAS NOT MADE, AND SELLER MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,AND WHETHER BY COMMON LAW, STATUTE, OR OTHERWISE, REGARDING ANY PURCHASED ASSET'S (I) QUALITY, CONDITION, OR OPERABILITY,(II) MERCHANTABILITY, (III) FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR(IV) CONFORMITY TO MODELS, SAMPLES OF MATERIALS OR MANUFACTURER DESIGN;ALL TANGIBLE PURCHASED ASSETS SHALL BE DELIVERED "AS IS, WHERE IS" IN THE CONDITION IN WHICH THE SAME EXISTS AS OF THE CLOSING DATE.
4.11
Condition of Purchased Assets.
Section 8.07,
      There are no tax Liens open, pending against or, to Seller's Knowledge threatened against the Purchased Assets. Neither the IRS nor any other Governmental Authority is asserting or, to Seller's Knowledge, threatening to assert against Seller or any of its Affiliates any deficiency or claim for additional Taxes or any adjustment of Taxes that could result in the placing of a tax Lien upon the Purchased Assets. Seller or its Affiliates have filed (or will cause to be filed on or before the Closing Date) all Tax Returns relating to the Operations and Purchased Assets that are required to be filed on or before the Closing Date, and such Tax Returns are (and will be) true, correct and complete in all material respects and were (and will be) prepared in conformity with all Applicable Law,and Seller or its Affiliates have paid (or will pay when due) all Taxes whether or not shown as due on such Tax Returns that are attributable to any taxable period or portion thereof that ends on or before the
4.12
Taxes.
 
Closing Date except for amounts being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings. Buyer will not be liable, as a result of the Contemplated Transactions, for Taxes of Seller whether by law, contract or otherwise except to the extent expressly provided in this Agreement or the Related Agreements.
      Except as set forth in Seller is not currently a party to any material Contract with any Affiliate of Seller that provides for the purchase or sale of goods to or from, or the provision of services to or from, the Refinery excluding Contracts for hydrocarbons or Contracts for administrative services provided by Shell Oil Company in the areas of human resources, benefits management, legal, finance, risk and insurance, public and governmental affairs, and other such administrative functions.
4.13
Affiliate Agreements.
Schedule 4.13,
      No event has occurred and no condition exists with respect to any Employee Benefit Plan, or any plan, program, arrangement otherwise within the term "Employee Benefit Plan" but without regard to whether it benefits or may benefit an Employee, that will subject Buyer or the Purchased Assets subsequent to the Closing to any Tax, Lien or Loss under Applicable Laws.
4.14
Employee Benefit Plans.
      Except as set forth in Seller has not received any written charges of discrimination, notification of any unfair labor practice charges or complaints pending before any court or agency having jurisdiction thereof nor are there any current union representation claims involving any of the Employees. To Seller's Knowledge, there are no strikes, work stoppages, work slowdowns or lockouts or of any threats thereof, with respect to the Operations except for routine grievance matters, by or with respect to any of the Employees. Since January 1, 2006, there have been no significant labor disputes, strikes, slowdowns, work stoppages, lockouts or similar matters except for routine grievance matters involving Employees.
4.15
Labor Matters.
Schedule 4.15,
      The Financial Statements have been prepared (or will be prepared to the extent the Financial Statements are to be delivered after the Closing) on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered thereby, are correct and complete, and are consistent with the books and records of Seller.
4.16
Financial Statements.
     Buyer hereby represents and warrants to Seller as follows:
      Buyer is a Delaware corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with full corporate power and authority to carry on its business and to own or lease and to operate its properties as and in the places where such business is conducted and such properties are owned, leased or operated.
5.01
Organization and Good Standing.
      Buyer has full corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and enter into this Agreement, the Related Agreements and the Contemplated Transactions, to fully perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the Contemplated Transactions. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Related Agreements and the Contemplated Transactions have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action of Buyer and this Agreement, the Related Agreements and the Contemplated Transactions have been duly executed and delivered by Buyer and constitute legal, valid and binding agreements of Buyer enforceable against Buyer in accordance with respective terms, except as such enforceability is limited by general principles of equity and applicable
5.02
Authority.
 
provisions of bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or similar laws (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
      Other than with respect to the HSR Act or any other consents obtained by Buyer prior to the date hereof, no consent, approval of or by, or filing with or notice to any other Persons is required with respect to Buyer in connection with the execution, delivery or enforceability of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions provided for hereby. Other than with respect to (i) the HSR Act, and (ii) as is otherwise contemplated in this Agreement and in the Related Agreements, no consent, approval of or by, or filing with or notice to any other Person is required to be obtained with respect to Buyer or any of its Affiliates in connection with the execution, delivery or enforceability of this Agreement, the Related Agreements or the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions, except where the failure to obtain such consent or approval, make such filing or give such notice would not have a material adverse effect on Buyer's ability to consummate the Contemplated Transactions.
5.03
Consents.
      The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Related Agreements and the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions and the compliance by Buyer with any of the provisions hereof and thereof does not and will not (i) violate or conflict with, or result in a breach of, any provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in termination of, or accelerate the performance required by any of the terms, conditions or provisions of the Organizational Documents of Buyer or under any material agreement, instrument or obligation to which Buyer is a party, or by which Buyer or its assets or properties may be bound, or (ii) violate any Applicable Law to which Buyer is subject, or by which Buyer or its assets or properties may be bound.
5.04
No Breach, Conflict.
      No Claim, action, suit, demand, proceeding, arbitration, grievance, citation, summons, subpoena or to Buyer's Knowledge any inquiry or investigation, of any nature, civil, criminal, regulatory or otherwise, in law or in equity, that is pending, or to Buyer's Knowledge, threatened seeking to restrain or prohibit this Agreement, the Related Agreements or any agreement, instrument or transaction contemplated hereby or thereby, or to obtain damages, a discovery order or other relief in connection with this Agreement, the Related Agreements or the Contemplated Transactions.
5.05
Litigation.
      Buyer has not retained any broker or finder or incurred any liability or obligation for any brokerage fees, commissions, finders' fees or similar compensation with respect to this Agreement, the Related Agreements or the Contemplated Transactions.
5.06
Brokers.
      At Closing, Buyer will have cash available to enable it to consummate the Contemplated Transactions.
5.07
Availability of Funds.
      Buyer acknowledges that Buyer has made its own independent analysis and judgment of the commercial potential, condition and usefulness of the Purchased Assets, taking into consideration all current Applicable Laws and the likelihood that such laws and requirements will change in the future, and is not relying upon any projections from Seller regarding prospective operations of the Purchased Assets. Buyer has such knowledge and experience in business and financial affairs in general as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of purchasing the Purchased Assets. BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THERE ARE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES RELATED
5.08
Independent Decision.
Except as expressly provided in this Agreement or the Related Agreements, in no event shall any projection as to the financial condition, financial results, status of assets, projects, availability of feedstock or markets or any other projections made by or on behalf of Seller to Buyer be relied upon by Buyer, and Buyer acknowledges that Seller makes no representation or warranty and specifically disclaims any representation or warranty with regard to same.
 
TO THE PURCHASED ASSETS OR THE OPERATIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT AND THE RELATED AGREEMENTS.
     Without limiting the generality of the preceding, Buyer acknowledges that, except as provided herein, no representations or warranties are made by or on behalf of Seller with respect to any information, documents or materials made available to Buyer in "data rooms," management presentations or any other form in expectation of the contemplated Transactions.
     Seller covenants and agrees as follows:
      Subject to the provisions of and upon reasonable notice, Seller shall grant, or cause to be granted to, Buyer and its representatives access during normal business hours throughout the Interim Period to the Purchased Assets and the books and records and other information relating to the Operations and the Purchased Assets (subject to any confidentiality agreements, applicable legal restrictions and any applicable legal privileges). During the Interim Period Seller shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to furnish, or cause to be furnished to, Buyer and its representatives all data and information concerning the Refinery and concerning operations of the Refinery that which may reasonably be requested by Buyer and shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to make available, or cause to be made available, such personnel of Seller as may reasonably be requested. Notwithstanding the preceding sentences to the contrary, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to permit Buyer or its representatives to have access to and the Refinery Records shall not include any files, records, contracts or documents of Seller or its Affiliates relating to (i) Seller's or its Affiliate's inter-company or intra-company feedstock and product pricing information, internal transfer prices, hedging activity records and hydrocarbon inventory valuation procedures and records or (ii) the negotiation or execution of this Agreement.
6.01
Access and Information.
Section 17.14
     
6.02
.
Conduct of Business
          (a) During the Interim Period, Seller shall conduct the Operations in the ordinary course of business consistent with Seller's customary practices (taking into account the planned Turnaround Activities) including routine maintenance and routine preventive maintenance activities, and capital expenditures and projects as are in Seller's operational plan for such period. Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain satisfactory relationships with employees, suppliers, distributors, customers, collective bargaining units and others having business relationships with the Refinery. Without limiting the generality of the preceding provisions, Seller shall not during the Interim Period, without the prior written consent of Buyer, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.,
               (i) sell, lease, exclusively license to others or otherwise dispose of any assets that would constitute Purchased Assets if held as of the Effective Time, or Intellectual Property or Licensed Technology Rights, except for Inventory sold in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, or acquire any asset other than in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice;
               (ii) except as made in the ordinary course of Seller's compensation program (including annual consideration for increases in base salary and bonus pay), make any material change in the rate of compensation, commission, bonus or other direct or
 
indirect remuneration payable, or paid or agreed or orally promised to pay, conditionally or otherwise, any bonus, incentive, retention or other compensation, retirement, welfare, fringe or severance benefit or vacation pay, to or in respect of any Employee (excluding retention and related bonuses paid or payable by Seller in connection with the transition activities contemplated herein);
               (iii) fail to maintain levels of catalyst, supplies and spare parts at levels consistent with Seller's practices;
               (iv) enter into any settlement of any pending or threatened litigation, or enter into any amendment of any existing settlement agreement, where the provisions thereof will materially and adversely impact the Purchased Assets, the Intellectual Property or Licensed Technology Rights or the ordinary operations of the Refinery as conducted by Seller on an historical basis (Seller shall provide Buyer with reasonable prior notice in the event Seller enters into any settlement of any pending or threatened litigation related to the Operations, or enters into any amendment of any existing settlement agreement, where the provisions thereof exceed Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000);
               (v) enter into any settlement of any pending or threatened litigation, or enter into any amendment of any existing settlement agreement, where the provisions thereof would require Buyer to hire any former employee of Seller;
               (vi) consent to the entry of (or amendment to) any decree or order by, or enter into (or amend) any other agreements with, any Government Authority that will materially and adversely impact the Purchased Assets, the Intellectual Property, Licensed Technology Rights or the ordinary operations of the Refinery as conducted by Seller on an historical basis;
               (vii) amend existing Commitments or enter into additional Commitments where the provisions thereof exceed Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) without the consent of Buyer, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; or
               (viii) take any action or omit to take any action that would result in the occurrence of any of the foregoing.
          (b) Seller agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to manage the Operations such that Hydrocarbon Inventory levels as of the Effective Time approximate such desired levels designated in writing by Buyer with appropriate advance notice, in all cases taking into account the planned Turnaround Activities. Buyer and Seller acknowledge that Seller is not obligated to reach such desired levels and nothing in this shall modify, alter or impair Buyer's obligations regarding the purchase of Hydrocarbon Inventories pursuant to .
Section 6.02
Section 2.06
          (c) Buyer and Seller acknowledge that the initial term of LBT Lease has terminated in accordance with its terms, and that Seller is in negotiations for a new lease or lease extension with the Port of Long Beach for use of the Long Beach Terminal. During the Interim Period, Seller shall consult with Buyer on a regular basis as is necessary or desirable to keep Buyer informed as to the status of such negotiations. Seller shall not enter into any new lease for the Long Beach Terminal without the prior written consent of Buyer, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. The execution of a new lease or lease extension for the Long Beach Terminal shall not be a condition to the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions. Rather, if no such lease or extension shall have been
 
entered into prior to the Closing Date, as of the Effective Time Buyer shall step into the shoes of Seller in the continuing negotiations with the Port of Long Beach with respect to such lease or renewal.
     
6.03
.
Schedules
          (a) Prior to the Closing, Seller shall notify Buyer of additions or changes to the Schedules to this Agreement or the HSE Agreement solely required to reflect events occurring subsequent to the date of this Agreement or facts discovered by Seller after the date hereof, so as to cause Seller's representations and warranties expressly contained herein or the HSE Agreement (other than any which speak as to a particular date) to be true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date. Subject to the following sentence, notices given by Seller pursuant to this will be deemed to have amended the Schedules, to have qualified the representations and warranties contained in and in the HSE Agreement, and to have corrected any misrepresentation or breach of warranty that otherwise might have existed hereunder by reason of the fact, circumstance, event or development (with the result that no misrepresentation or breach shall be deemed to have occurred), in each case to the extent of the disclosure contained in such notice, including for purposes of . If such additions or changes are reasonably estimated (as determined by the Parties acting in good faith) to result (individually or in the aggregate) in a Material Adverse Effect, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to determine a reasonable adjustment to the Purchase Price to fully reflect any Losses estimated to be incurred by Buyer resulting from such matters; in the event such Losses are reasonably estimated (as determined by the Parties acting in good faith) to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) then either Party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to
Section 6.03(a)
ARTICLE IV
Section 11.02
provided, however,
Section 15.01.
          (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of to the contrary, the Parties acknowledge and agree that the Schedules described on are not complete as of the date hereof. Seller shall have the right to make additions and changes to such Schedules to the extent provided on the applicable Schedule, and such additions and changes shall have the effect of amending each affected Schedule as if the applicable additions and changes were included or reflected on such Schedule as of the date hereof so long as such additions and changes reflect facts and information that are consistent with and arise out of or are incidental to Seller's conduct of the Operations in the ordinary course of business consistent with Seller's customary practices (taking into account the planned Turnaround Activities) including routine maintenance and routine preventive maintenance activities, and capital expenditures and projects as arc in Seller's operational plan for any applicable period.
Section 6.03(a)
Schedule 6.03(b)
      Seller shall cause to be prepared and delivered to Buyer the following financial statements of the operations of the Refinery (collectively the
6.04
Financial Statements.
""):
Financial Statements
          (a) audited balance sheet, statement of income and retained earnings and a statement of cash flow as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 that comply in all material respects with the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation S-X together with the opinion of nationally recognized independent certified public accountants which shall be delivered to Buyer on or before the Closing;
          (b) unaudited balance sheets, statements of income and retained earnings and statements of cash flow as of and for the three (3) months ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and March 31, 2007 all of which shall be delivered to Buyer on or before the Closing;
          (c) unaudited balance sheets, statements of income and retained earnings and statements of cash flow as of and for the three (3) months ended June 30, 2007 which shall be delivered to Buyer on or before September 30, 2007;
 
      During the Interim Period, Seller shall, at its expense,conduct at the Refinery the turnaround activities set forth in (collectively, the
6.05
Turnaround Activities.
Schedule 6.05
"Turnaround Activities").
      During the Interim Period, Seller shall, at its expense, exercise its right to purchase the HGU Unit and acquire indefeasible title to the HGU Unit. Seller shall terminate that certain HGU Lease dated as of October 1, 1990 between Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company of California (as Owner Trustee) and Texaco Refining and Marketing Inc. (as Lessee).
6.06
HGU Unit.
      After the Closing, Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide Buyer with access to any of Seller's easements, rights of way, licenses and similar rights that were used in and necessary to the Operations prior to Closing that are not part of the Purchased Assets.
6.07
Easement Access.
     Buyer covenants and agrees as follows:
      Buyer acknowledges that all information provided to any of it and its Affiliates, directors, officers, employees, counsel, auditors, accountants, agents, advisors and other representatives by Seller and its Affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, counsel,auditors, accountants, agents, advisors and other representatives is subject to the terms of .
7.01
Confidentiality.
Section 17.14
     
7.02
Pre-Closing Access and Inspections.
                    (a) During the Interim Period, Buyer shall not contact or communicate with any employees, customers, suppliers or distributors of the Refinery except as expressly provided in this Agreement or with Seller's prior written consent.
                    (b) Any inspection or investigation conducted by Buyer, its agents, consultants, or other authorized representatives prior to the Closing (i) shall be conducted in accordance with Applicable Laws including any applicable HSE Laws and in such manner as not to interfere unreasonably with the Operations or the Purchased Assets; or (ii) shall not entitle Buyer to conduct Phase II environmental assessments or any other sampling or testing of soil or ground or surface water at, or under, any real property associated with the Refinery or the other Purchased Assets, without the prior written consent of Seller, Buyer being limited to the review of Seller's or its Affiliate's records or any other publicly available materials or information with regard to these matters. Buyer bears the risk of injury to any of its employees, agents or representatives conducting any inspection or investigation of the Refinery, the other Purchased Assets or the Operations and shall indemnify, defend and hold the Seller Indemnified Parties harmless (subject to for all Losses to the extent caused by, arising from or related to the acts or omissions of Buyer and its employees, agents or representatives in conducting any inspection or investigation of the Refinery, the other Purchased Assets or the Operations (other than notifications by Buyer of possible violations of HSE Laws or breaches of representations, warranties or covenants of Seller contained herein).
ARTICLE XIII)
                    (c) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement. Buyer's obligations under this Section 7.02 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions.
 
      From and after the Effective Time, Buyer will, and will cause its Affiliates to, afford to Seller and its representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to personnel and to such properties and records that were transferred to Buyer and permission to take from the Refinery copies of any books, records or accounts relating to the Refinery through and including the Closing Date and, if requested, will furnish to Seller such additional information and cooperate with Seller in such other respects, including the making of employees available to Seller at Seller's expense as witnesses or deponents as Seller may reasonably request for each of the following to the extent such matter does not involve a Dispute between Buyer and Seller: (i) financial reporting, (ii) tax or similar purposes, (iii) purposes of investigating claims, or conducting litigation or administrative proceedings with third parties or Governmental Authorities or (iv) any other proper purpose, provided that Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold the Buyer Indemnified Parties harmless (subject to for all Losses to the extent caused by, arising from or related to the acts or omissions of Seller and its representatives from such access. Buyer will, and will cause its Affiliates to, keep and maintain the records that Seller and its representatives have access to pursuant to this such records to be maintained for a period of ten (10) years from the Closing Date or such longer periods as may be required by Applicable Laws, provided that if Buyer desires to destroy or dispose of such records during such period then Buyer will first offer to Seller in writing at least sixty (60) days before such destruction or disposition to surrender them to Seller and if Seller does not accept such offer within twenty (20) days after receipt of such offer, then Buyer may take such action. Seller's right to post-Closing access to the Refinery shall include the right to access Excluded Assets that remain located at the Refinery pursuant to
7.03
Post-Closing Access.
ARTICLE XIII)
Section 7.03,
Section 2.02.
      With respect to all litigation and other matters set forth in the Schedules and any other matters that constitute Retained Liabilities and for so long as Seller is contesting or defending such matter, Buyer shall cooperate to the extent commercially reasonable with Seller and Seller Affiliates and their respective counsel, at Seller's expense, in their efforts to conduct or resolve such litigation, including by making available to them such documents and witnesses as may be deemed necessary or useful therefor in Seller's sole but reasonable discretion. With respect to any dispute or litigation involving any terminated Employee seeking reinstatement, Buyer shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary for Seller to comply with the terms of any judgment, decision or order of any proper authority issued in connection with such dispute or litigation (including by offering to employ and employing, at Buyer's expense, such former Employee) and shall treat any former Employee who is ordered to be reinstated at the Refinery as a Transferred Employee for all purposes hereunder. The preceding sentence shall not relieve Seller from the obligations of .
7.04
Litigation.
Section 6.02(a)(v)
      No license to any of the Trademarks is granted by this Agreement, the Related Agreements or by the transfer of the Purchased Assets to Buyer, and Buyer is precluded from any use and agrees not to make any use of Trademarks on or in connection with the sale of any of its products or services as a means of identity or in any of its communications or in connection with Buyer's operation of the Purchased Assets. Buyer acknowledges and agrees with Seller that the Trademarks, and all rights to which, and the goodwill represented thereby and pertaining thereto, are being retained by Seller and its Affiliates. Without limiting the generality of the preceding, Buyer will not be entitled to use the name"Shell" or any variations or derivations thereof (including any logo, trademark or design containing such name) or any logo, service mark, trade name or trademark that constitutes an Excluded Asset except to the extent as may be expressly provided otherwise pursuant to the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement. Accordingly, as soon as reasonably practical after the Closing, but in any event within sixty (60) days after the Closing Date with regards to Purchased Assets that are visible to the public, and within one hundred eighty (180) days after the Closing Date with regards to Purchased Assets that are not visible tothe general public, Buyer shall remove from or paint or cover over, as appropriate, any logo, servicemark, trade name or trademark indicating that such assets were owned or operated by Seller or any of its Affiliates (including signs displaying Seller's or its Affiliate's emergency contact telephone number or
7.05
Trademarks.
 
otherwise using or displaying the name "Shell", in whole or in part). As promptly as practical after the Closing but in any event within ten (10) days, Buyer shall post Buyer's emergency contact telephone number in place of Seller's or its Affiliate's emergency contact telephone number. In the event that Buyer breaches this Seller shall be entitled to specific performance of this and to injunctive relief against further violations, as well as any other remedies at law or in equity available to Seller.
Section 7.05,
Section 7.05
      Seller shall have the right, but not the obligation,to purchase and maintain, at its expense, pollution legal liability insurance and cost containment insurance to insure Seller against Seller's obligations pursuant to the HSE Agreement (collectively, the Buyer agrees to provide reasonable assistance to Seller in applying for and maintaining the Seller Environmental Policies including providing Seller and its insurers reasonable access to the Purchased Assets after the Closing Date for purposes of maintaining, monitoring, renewing or other proper purposes related to the Seller Environmental Policies.
7.06
Environmental Insurance Policy.
"Seller Environmental Policies").
      Buyer shall grant or continue to grant such rights of ingress or egress necessary to allow any third party that holds any Third Party Property to have access to such Third Party Property for the purposes of repairing, maintaining or otherwise utilizing such property, for so long as the Third Party Property lawfully remains on the Real Property.
7.07
Third Party Property.
     Buyer and Seller covenant and agree as follows:
      Buyer and Seller shall each file or cause to be filed with the Federal Trade Commission (the and the United States Department of Justice any notifications or reports required to be filed under the HSR Act with respect to the Contemplated Transactions, and shall provide copies of such notifications or reports to the Attorney General of any State upon request by the State Attorney General. Any such notification and report form and supplemental information will be in substantial compliance with the requirements of the HSR Act. Buyer and Seller shall each bear the costs and expenses of their respective filings; provided that Buyer shall pay 100% of the filing fees in connection therewith. Buyer and Seller shall respectively use all commercially reasonable efforts to make such filings promptly (and in any event within fifteen (15) Business Days) following the date hereof, to respond promptly to any requests for additional information and documentary materials made by either the DOJ or the FTC, or any State Attorney General, to make any further filings that may be necessary, proper or advisable in connection therewith and to cause the waiting periods under the HSR Act to terminate or expire at the earliest possible date and to resist in good faith, at each of their respective cost and expense (including the institution or defense of legal proceedings), any assertion that the Contemplated Transactions constitute a violation of the antitrust laws, all to the end of expediting consummation of the Contemplated Transactions. Each of Buyer, on the one hand, and Seller, on the other, shall consult with the other prior to any meetings, by telephone or in person, with the staff of the applicable governmental authorities, and each of Buyer and Seller shall have the right to have a representative present at any such meeting.
8.01
HSR.
"FTC"
)
("DOJ")
     
8.02
Assignments.
                    (a) With respect to any Contract, easement, right-of-way or Permit that (1) is intended to be assigned to Buyer hereunder and (2) requires consent for the assignment thereof to Buyer, Seller shall take such actions as are commercially reasonable and necessary, and Buyer shall
 
cooperate with Seller in all commercially reasonable respects, to effect assignment thereof to Buyer as of the Closing Date. It is understood that such actions by Seller shall not include any requirement of Seller to expend money, commence any litigation or offer or grant any accommodation (financial or otherwise) to any third party. Seller shall initiate termination procedures on any Contracts requested by Buyer to be effective upon the Closing provided that such terminations do not require Seller to expend money or grant any accommodation (financial or otherwise) to the counter parties to such Contracts.
                    (b) In the event that Seller is unable to obtain the requisite approval for assignment of any such Contract, easement, right-of-way or Permit, or in the event such Contract, easement, right-of-way or Permit is required to be amended or supplemented and is not so amended or supplemented as of the Closing Date, and such assignment is reasonably necessary to operate the Refinery in the ordinary course of business as conducted by Seller on an historical basis for the twelve (12) months prior to the Closing Date without giving rise to a material adverse affect on the Purchased Assets or the operation of the Refinery, at the written request of Buyer on or before the Closing Date or within thirty (30) days after the Closing Date (except where such action would be unlawful or prohibited by such Contract, easement, right-of-way or Permit), Seller shall (x) retain any such Contract, easement, right-of-way or Permit and shall enter into an arrangement with Buyer (including, to the extent appropriate amending the Transition Services Agreement) to provide Buyer with the economic and functional benefits of such Contract, easement, right-of-way or Permit, provided, that Buyer shall perform Seller's obligations thereunder arising on or after the Closing Date (and indemnify, defend and hold Seller harmless, pursuant to against Losses suffered in the event Buyer breaches any obligations thereunder) until such Contract, casement, right-of-way or Permit is assigned to Buyer or expires at the earliest opportunity in accordance with its terms, or is properly amended or supplemented, and (y) take all commercially reasonable and necessary actions required to assign to Buyer, or amend or supplement, any such Contract, easement, right-of-way or Permit as soon as practicable after the Closing Date.
ARTICLE XIII,
                    (c) Notwithstanding Seller's obligations pursuant to the assignment of any Contract, easement, right-of-way or Permit to be transferred to Buyer that requires consent for assignment, or amendment or supplement, may be effected after the Closing Date. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement including the Purchase Price shall not be subject to adjustment, and the Closing of the Contemplated Transactions shall not be delayed, by reason of any inability to obtain consent for assignment of any Contract, easement, right-of-way or Permit or any such amendment or supplement. Buyer acknowledges that certain consents to the Contemplated Transactions may be required from parties to Contracts, easements, rights-of-way or Permits (written or otherwise) to which any of Seller is a party, and such consents may not be obtained (provided that Seller has complied with its obligations under Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Buyer agrees that Seller shall not have any liability whatsoever to Buyer arising out of or relating to the failure to obtain any consents that may have been or may be required in connection with the Contemplated Transactions by this Agreement or because of the default, acceleration or termination of any such agreement, contract, license, lease, easement, right-of-way or permit as a result thereof (provided that Seller has complied with its obligations under Buyer further agrees that no representation, warranty or covenant of Seller contained herein shall be breached or deemed breached and no condition of Buyer shall be deemed not to be satisfied (other than pursuant to as a result of the failure to obtain any consent or as a result of any such default, acceleration or termination or any lawsuit, action, claim, proceeding or investigation commenced or threatened by or on behalf of any persons arising out of or relating to the failure to obtain any consent or any such default, acceleration or termination (provided that Seller has complied with its obligations under
Section 8.02(a),
Section 11.09,
Section 8.02(b)).
Section 8.02(b)).
Section 11.09)
Section 8.02(b)).
      Promptly following the execution of this Agreement, representatives of Buyer and Seller shall meet to develop a transition plan which shall identify services, service periods and service charges to be provided by Seller subsequent to the Closing. Such services,
8.03
Transition Services.
 
     service periods and service charges, if agreed, shall be added prior to Closing to the terms and conditions of the Transition Services Agreement (the as set forth in the form of
"Transition Services Agreement"),
Exhibit F.
      Buyer and Seller shall cooperate with each other and take all reasonable steps necessary to obtain authorization for the sale of the Purchased Assets from all other applicable Governmental Authorities.
8.04
Other Governmental Approvals.
      Buyer and Seller shall otherwise use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause the satisfaction of all conditions precedent in this XI and and the Closing to occur as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of this Agreement.
8.05
Other Actions.
ARTICLE VIII, ARTICLE
ARTICLE XII
      In the event any Party receives any funds or other property that belongs to another Party then the receiving Party shall receive and hold such funds and property in trust for the benefit of the rightful Party and shall promptly forward such funds and property to the rightful Party. It is the intention of the Parties that, as between the Parties, Seller shall been titled to all income attributable to the operations conducted prior to the Effective Time and Buyer shall be entitled to all income attributable to the operations conducted after the Effective Time. Each Party shall pay to the other Party, promptly after receipt thereof, any amount received by said Party from any third party with respect to (i) rentals, fees or other revenues relating to the Operations and attributable to the ownership period of the other Party; and (ii) products delivered, services performed or other obligations performed by the other Party and attributable to the ownership period of such other Party.
8.06
Collection of Amounts Owed to a Party.
     
8.07
Repairs.
                    (a) Seller agrees that if any of the Purchased Assets (i) require repairs or maintenance prior to the Effective Time outside of the normal scope of general repairs or maintenance consistent with Seller's operation of the Purchased Assets, or (ii) are destroyed or damaged, in whole or in part, by fire or other casualty prior to the Closing Date then, Seller shall repair or replace (with similar grade, quality and condition) such Purchased Assets with reasonable promptness prior to the Closing Date, that (A) if the cost of such repairs or replacements, individually or in the aggregate, are reasonably estimated (as determined by the Parties in good faith) to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000), then Seller shall have the option to terminate this Agreement pursuant to and (B) if the cost of such repairs or replacements, individually or in the aggregate, are reasonably estimated (as determined by the Parties in good faith) to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) and it is reasonably estimated (as determined by the Parties in good faith) that such repairs or replacements cannot be completed by June 1, 2007, then Buyer shall have the option to terminate this Agreement pursuant to
provided
Section 15.01
Section 15.01.
                    (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of to the contrary, in the event the cost of such repairs or replacements, individually or in the aggregate, are reasonably estimated to not exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000), Buyer may elect to waive such repairs or replacements by Seller and accept at the Closing either (i) a credit against the Purchase Price or (ii) a payment by Seller (or an assignment at the Closing from Seller of insurance proceeds, if any) in an amount equal to the estimated amount for such repairs or replacements. Any insurance proceeds exceeding the cost of repair or replacement of the damaged Purchased Assets shall be an Excluded Asset.
Section 8.07(a)
                    (c) Seller and Buyer shall negotiate in good faith the estimated amount of such repairs or replacements.
 
                    (d) In the event Seller and Buyer disagree over the amount of such estimated Losses then the Parties will resolve such dispute pursuant to The arbitrator(s) shall decide the amount of the estimated repairs or replacements based upon all facts and circumstances.
ARTICLE XVI.
     
8.08
Payment of Certain Expenses Due and Payable After the Closing Date.
          (a) The Closing Date Payment shall be increased by the pro-rated amount of all lease and rental payments made by Seller prior to the Closing Date in respect of the Purchased Assets but that are attributable to periods after the Closing Date. The Closing Date Payment shall be decreased by the pro-rated amount of all lease and rental payments in respect of the Purchased Assets to be made by Buyer subsequent to the Closing Date but that are attributable to periods on or prior to the Closing Date. The Parties shall share information among themselves prior to the Closing Date to identify and pro-rate such amounts.
          (b) Buyer shall pay, as and when due, all emissions fees, permit fees and utility bills due and payable after the Closing Date, and Seller shall reimburse Buyer within thirty (30) days after invoice for any amounts under such bills attributable to any period prior to the Effective Time.
          (c) If a Party makes any payment to a third party pursuant to any assigned Contract; and (i) such payment is made in respect of work performed, services provided or goods delivered during a period of time that includes the Effective Time; or (ii) the Effective Time intervenes between the making of such payment and the performance of the work or services or delivery of goods,the Parties will allocate the burden of such payment in a manner that reflects the relative benefit of such work performed, services provided or goods delivered to each Party; it shall be presumed that any work performed, services provided or goods delivered prior to the Effective Time are for the benefit of Seller and any work performed, services provided or goods delivered after the Effective Time are for the benefit of Buyer.
provided, however,
      Nothing in this Agreement or the Related Agreements shall be construed to create any joint venture, partnership, agency or other similar fiduciary relationship between the parties hereto or thereto. Under this Agreement and the Related Agreements the Parties and their respective Affiliates are nothing other than independent contractors for the sale or purchase of specific property, goods or services. The Parties acknowledge that, for purposes of this Agreement and the Related Agreements, (i) none of the Parties or their respective Affiliates shall be considered to be the agent, representative, employee, master, or servant of the others for any purpose, (ii) except as expressly provided in this Agreement, none of the Parties or their respective Affiliates shall have any obligation to manage or operate any of their respective businesses with any duty or standard of care to the other Party or their respective Affiliates, and (iii) none of the Parties or their respective Affiliates have any authority, right or power to enter into a contract or commitment, assume any obligation or make any representation or warranty on behalf of the others (except as expressly specified in this Agreement or the Related Agreements). The Parties agree and acknowledge that except as expressly provided herein or in the Related Agreements, none of the Parties or their respective Affiliates shall owe duties, fiduciary or otherwise to the other. The Parties and their respective Affiliates are, and will be after Closing, competitors with the right to pursue any business opportunity for their respective individual benefit and make no representation or warranty regarding the manner in that they will conduct their respective businesses and operations. None of the Parties or their respective Affiliates shall have any obligation to refrain from (i) engaging in the same or similar activities or lines of business as the Parties or their respective Affiliates, (ii) developing or marketing any products or services that compete, directly or indirectly with those Parties or their respective Affiliates, (iii) investing or owning any interest publicly or privately in, or developing a business relationship with, any Person engaged in the same or similar activities or lines of business as, or otherwise in direct or indirect competition with, the Parties or their
8.09
Relationship of the Parties.
 
respective Affiliates, or (iv) doing business with any client or customer of the Parties or their respective Affiliates. None of the Parties or their respective Affiliates shall have any obligation to offer any business opportunity (except as expressly specified in this Agreement or the Related Agreements) and may modify or otherwise change any of their respective businesses or operations at any time.
      Promptly after the execution hereof, Seller and Buyer shall use commercially reasonable efforts and shall assist each other to obtain from all applicable Governmental Authorities the environmental consents, waivers and amendments set forth in
8.10
Environmental Consents/Waivers/Amendments.
Schedule 8.10.
      Promptly after the execution of this Agreement, the Parties shall obtain from a nationally recognized title company mutually acceptable to the Parties (the a CLTA commitment (and deliver a copy thereof to Buyer) for owner's title insurance with respect to the Refinery Real Property and the SRP Real Property and leasehold title insurance with respect to the LBT Real Property, insuring title subject only to the Title Policy Exceptions (collectively, theUnless the Parties agree otherwise, the amount of such insurance coverage for the respective properties shall be based upon the most recent assessed property valuations from the applicable Governing Authority for Tax purposes. The Parties shall diligently cooperate in good faith to enable the Title Company to issue final/binding commitments or actual policies for the Title Policies at Closing. Buyer and Seller shall each pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the premium for the Title Policies. In the event Buyer elects to purchase extended coverage/owner's title policies (ALTA), the incremental cost of such coverage/policies and any required surveys shall be paid solely by Buyer. Additionally, Buyer shall be solely responsible for the purchase of any lenders policies of title insurance. Nothing in this shall relieve Seller from a remedy Buyer may have from Seller's breach of any representation or warranty contained in ; Buyer agrees to use all commercially reasonable efforts to pursue claims, if any, that it may have against the Title Company pursuant to the Title Policies before making any claim against Seller for any breach of Seller's representations or warranties contained in and related to the Real Property; that Buyer and Seller shall cooperate, including entering into any tolling agreements and take any other action reasonably required to preserve Buyer's claims against Seller during the pendency of Buyer's pursuit of claims against the Title Company.
8.11
Title Policies.
"Title
")
Company
"Title
").
Policies
ad valorem
Section 8.11
ARTICLE IV
provided, however,
Sections 4.04
4.06
provided further
      During the Interim Period and to the extent necessary, after the Closing, Seller and Buyer will file a request with the Los Angeles County Sanitation District to split Seller's existing Permit for Industrial Waster Water Discharge that relates to both the Refinery and to Seller's Carson Terminal facility into two independent permits allocating the capacity units to each facility such that each facility has adequate units for current operations. In the event that the Los Angeles County Sanitation District charges a fee for such new permits, Seller shall be responsible for payment of such that Buyer shall reasonably cooperate in any actions that mitigate the cost to Seller so long as such actions are at no net cost to Buyer.
8.12
POTW PERMIT.
fee; provided, however,
      From time to time, as and when reasonably requested by any Party, each Party shall execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, all such documents and instruments and shall take, or cause to be taken, all such further actions which are consistent with, and customary and necessary for, the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions. Without limiting the generality of the preceding, Seller and Buyer shall contact all third parties which currently have contractual arrangements with Seller and its Affiliates in respect of the Purchased Assets or the Operations and which are anticipated to have commercial arrangements with Buyer following the Closing to establish transition matters to be effective as of the Effective Time.
8.13
Further Assurances.
 
      Seller shall grant and hereby does grant to Buyer and its Affiliates, effective as of the Effective Time, for Use by Buyer and its Affiliates solely in the operations of the Refinery, a non-exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free, fully paid-up license or sublicense(both, as the case may be, without a right to sublicense or transfer except as expressly provided in this or to Intellectual Property, which exists at the Effective Time and which is or has been in Use in the Operations. By executing this Agreement, effective as of the Effective Time,Buyer is assuming the applicable and relevant duties and obligations of Seller regarding the use of the Intellectual Property that is licensed herein under the Technology Transfer Agreements (collectively, the"") attached as (comprised of two documents), including the confidentiality obligations of therein,
9.01
Grants to Intellectual Property.
ARTICLE IX
Section 17.05)
TTA
Exhibit H
Article VI
      For avoidance of doubt, in the grant provisions of Section 9.01 sublicense of Intellectual Property described in clause (i) of the definition thereof in by Seller does not include any intellectual property outside the grant of of the TTA nor does it include any grants of rights of any kind to any lubricant formulation or additive technology or Post-Effective or Pre-Effective Long Life Coolant Technology both as defined in the TTA. For avoidance of doubt, Buyer shall receive no rights to any improvements in Intellectual Property made by Seller subsequent to the Closing Date.
9.02
Exclusions to Grant of .
Section 9.01
Section 1.01.
Section 2
      Buyer shall have the right to sublicense the Intellectual Property to any Person solely in connection with the operations of the Refinery; but subject to an assumption in writing of such third party of all relevant duties and obligations (including any confidentiality obligations) contained in the TTA, as applicable. In the event Buyer sells, assigns,transfers or pledges to any Person, ownership of the Refinery, or any part thereof, or in connection with a merger or sale of stock, or sale of substantially all the assets, of Buyer, the license granted in may be extended, sublicensed, transferred or assigned to such transferee or lender subject to outstanding obligations to third parties and subject to an assumption in writing by such transferee or lender of all relevant duties and obligations under the applicable portions of this Any obligations of confidentiality in this Agreement or in the TTA, and any liability accrued hereunder by Buyer or its Affiliates with respect thereto, shall survive such transfer.
9.03
Transfer of Intellectual Property.
Section 9.01
ARTICLE IX.
     
9.04
Licensed Technology Rights.
                    (a)  All Licensed Technology Rights that are freely transferable are listed on Seller shall transfer or cause the transfer of Licensed Technology Rights that are freely transferable and shall grant all rights and interest in the Licensed Technology Rights listed on by assignment or sublicense as the case may be. Upon such transfer, Seller agrees that all royalties, licensing fees and similar costs payable up to the Effective Time for such Licensed Technology Rights shall be fully paid by Seller for Use by Buyer in the operations of the Refinery, it being understood that Buyer shall be responsible for any such royalties, licensing fees and similar costs payable by Buyer in connection with Buyer's Use of such Licensed Technology Rights after the Effective Time under the terms of the applicable licenses. Buyer is aware that these rights are Licensed Technology Rights where (A) such rights are freely transferable without the permission of the licensor or vendor, (B) such Licensed Technology Rights are or have been in Use by Seller or its Affiliates at the Effective Time, and (C) such transfer would not require Seller or Shell Oil Company or its Affiliates to forego future Use of the Licensed Technology Rights for its or their own benefit as currently permitted under the Licensed Technology Rights. Buyer acknowledges that the
Assignable Licensed Technology Rights.
Schedule 9.04(a).
Schedule 9.04(a).
 
Licensed Technology Rights exclude any source code or other aspects of Software of third parties unless such source code or other aspects of Software has been licensed to Seller pursuant to the applicable license for such Licensed Technology Rights or where Seller does not have a right to provide such other aspects of Software or source code in said license. Any fees or costs required to be paid for such transfer shall be paid by Seller.
                    (b)  All non-assignable, non-transferable Licensed Technology Rights are listed on Buyer recognizes that the Licensed Technology Rights listed on are not freely assignable without the permission of the respective licensor or vendor. Seller or its Affiliate, at the written request of Buyer, agrees to contact the licensor or vendor and use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a permitted transfer of the Licensed Technology Rights or obtain, in consultation with Buyer, a new, non-transferable license for Use by Buyer solely in the operations of the Refinery on such terms as are reasonably satisfactory to Buyer. In that event, all fees and costs necessary to transfer the Licensed Technology Rights or to acquire a new license commensurate therewith to Buyer, shall be paid by Buyer. Upon such transfer, Seller agrees that all royalties, licensing fees and similar cost payable up to the Effective Time for such Licensed Technology Rights listed on shall be fully paid by Seller for Use by Buyer in the operation of the Refinery, it being understood that Buyer shall be responsible for any such royalties, licensing fees and similar costs payable by Buyer in connection with Buyer's Use of such Licensed Technology Rights after the Effective Time under the terms of the applicable licenses. Seller shall or shall cause its Affiliates to make commercially reasonable efforts to maintain the status quo of such non-assignable, non-transferable Licensed Technology Rights until Buyer can secure transfer or a new license to Buyer.
Non-assignable or non-transferable Licensed Technology Rights.
Schedule 9.04(b).
Schedule 9.04(b)
Schedule 9.04(b)
                    (c)  Both Buyer and Seller recognize that, because of the complexity of the sale of the Refinery to Buyer, some relevant Licensed Technology Rights for the operations of the Refinery may not be included on or . In that event, Seller agrees for a period of at least five (5) years after the Closing Date to (i) identify such Licensed Technology Rights and to notify Buyer thereof and (ii) at Buyer's request, use commercially reasonable efforts to transfer such Licensed Technology Rights to Buyer for Use solely in the internal operations of the Refinery, provided that any fees necessary to implement such transfer shall be borne exclusively by Seller.
Licensed Technology Rights not on Schedule 9.04(a) or 9.04(b).
Schedule 9.04(a)
9.04(b)
It is understood that Licensed Technology Rights were acquired by Seller subject to certain third party obligations. In any assignment or issuance of a sublicense from Seller to Buyer of any such third party Licensed Technology Rights under this Section, Buyer agrees to assume all applicable obligations reasonable and necessary to enable Buyer to Use such Licensed Technology Rights in the operations of the Refinery. For avoidance of doubt, Seller shall not be obligated to extend to Buyer any source code or any other aspects of Software of third parties to the extent not licensed to it under the applicable licenses for the Licensed Technology Rights or where Seller does not have a right to provide such other aspects of Software or source code in said license or maintain for Buyer such third party Licensed Technology Rights in the same manner and to the same extent as practiced by Seller prior to the Effective Time, in each case where the extension or maintenance of such rights would be to the detriment of the rights of Seller or any of its Affiliates to practice under its own rights and licenses. Seller shall follow the procedures described in at Buyer's expense, with respect to such non-assignable non-transferable third party Licensed Technology Rights set forth in or at Seller's expense, with respect to such third party Licensed Technology Rights not on or
Section 9.04(a)
Schedule 9.04(b),
Schedule 9.04(a)
9.04(b).
Upon such transfer, Seller agrees that all royalties, licensing fees and similar cost payable up to the Effective Time for such Licensed Technology Rights shall be fully paid for Use by Buyer in the operation of the Refinery, it being understood that Buyer shall be responsible for any such royalties, licensing fees
 
and similar costs payable after the Effective Time for any period of Use by Buyer after the Effective Time under the terms of the applicable licenses. For avoidance of doubt, Seller shall be and remains responsible for any and all such royalties, licensing fees and similar costs payable arising out of any Use of the Licensed Technology Rights up to the Effective Time.
      The grants made in this are perpetual and shall not be subject to any term. Seller agrees that the licenses granted to the Seller and/or its Affiliates under the TTA are perpetual and irrevocable. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event of any termination of the Technology Transfer Agreement dated January 15, 1998, Seller agrees that all Intellectual Property owned by Texaco, Inc. and licensed to Seller under the TTA, and all Intellectual Property owned by Seller, will each continue to be licensed to Buyer on a perpetual basis, in accordance with the terms of this
9.05
Term and Termination.
ARTICLE IX
ARTICLE IX.
     
9.06
Representations and Warranties.
                    (a) Seller represents and warrants that it has the right to grant the licenses of Intellectual Property as set forth in free and clear of any Liens, other than Permitted Encumbrances; and that to the Knowledge of Seller no claim, action, suit, proceeding, governmental or court order, or demand is pending or threatened with respect to any Intellectual Property licensed pursuant to this .
Section 9.01
ARTICLE IX
                    (b) Seller represents and warrants that, to the Knowledge of Seller, (i) there are no facts that would support a claim that may result in losses having a Material Adverse Effect on Buyer's Use of the Intellectual Property licensed pursuant to this in the operations of the Refinery in a manner substantially similar to the Operations and (ii) the Intellectual Property licensed pursuant to this and the Use of the Intellectual Property in accordance with such license has not and, does not infringe or otherwise violate any intellectual property or other proprietary or contractual right of a third party except as provided in
ARTICLE IX
ARTICLE IX
Schedule 9.06(b).
Except for the representations and warranties and agreements contained in this and this Agreement, any oral or written report, data or other information provided to Buyer hereunder, whether provided under license or otherwise, shall be provided on an basis without any warranties, express or implied including the results or effects obtained through use of information, or that it is fit for any use intended or can be used without infringing the patent or copyright rights of a person. Without any limitation on the preceding, any implied warranty of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose is expressly excluded from this with respect to any information or Intellectual Property provided hereunder. In no event will any Party be liable for loss of profits, or indirect, consequential (except for breach of confidentiality and amounts payable in connection with Third Party Claims) or special damages resulting from the other Party's use or disclosure of any information or Intellectual Property.
ARTICLE IX
""
as is
ARTICLE IX.
      Buyer agrees to comply with any applicable U.S. export control laws and regulations in regard to any information or data covered by this
9.07
Export Control.
ARTICLE IX.
      Buyer shall not be entitled to receive and Seller and its Affiliates shall have no obligation to provide any modifications, enhancements or upgrades made by Seller or its Affiliates to any Intellectual Property or Licensed Technology Rights subsequent to the Closing. All rights not expressly granted in this to Buyer are retained by Seller and its Affiliates. If Buyer develops any improvements or modifications to the Intellectual Property licensed to it under, Buyer shall retain all right, title and interest to such improvements or modifications and
9.08
Miscellaneous.
ARTICLE IX
Section 9.01
 
related intellectual property rights therein. Seller shall deliver to Buyer copies of the Deliverable Items for any software licensed pursuant to this within twenty (20) days after the Closing Date. means, with respect to Software, all object code, source code (except for source code and other aspects of Software owned by a third party and not licensed to Seller under the applicable license therefor) documentation (including all user and operation manuals), job control information, job control language, system engineering and design information, and all databases related to the operation of the Refinery that is being licensed in
ARTICLE IX
"Deliverable Items"
Section 9.01.
      Seller and Buyer agree to the provisions concerning employees and employee benefits as set forth in
10.01
Employees and Employee Benefits.
Schedule 10.01.
Buyer's obligation to close the Contemplated Transactions is subject to the fulfillment, or waiver by Buyer, on or prior to the Closing of each of the following:
      Seller shall have performed and complied in all material respects with all covenants, agreements and conditions required by this Agreement to be performed or complied with by Seller prior to the Closing Date.
11.01
Compliance with Agreement.
      The representations and warranties of Seller made in this Agreement (as may be amended by Seller in accordance with shall be true and correct except to the extent such failures would not have a "Material Adverse Impact," in each case as of the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date, as though made on and as of the Closing Date, except for representations and warranties that speak as of a specific date or time (which need only be true and correct as of such date or time). For purposes of the preceding sentence, whether a representation and warranty has been satisfied will be determined without regard to any qualifiers relating to materiality or Material Adverse Effect contained in the terms of such representation and warranty. For purposes of this the term "Material Adverse Impact" shall mean if the act(s), omission(s), conduct,occurrence(s), condition(s) or situation(s). are reasonably expected to (i) result in Losses with respect to the value of the Purchased Assets in excess of Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000), or (ii) if not quantifiable, materially impair the ownership or use of the Purchased Assets or the Operations, taken as a whole.
11.02
Representations and Warranties.
Section 6.03)
Section 11.02
      Seller shall be willing and able to enter into, and shall have delivered or caused to be delivered, at the Closing the items set forth in to which Seller is to be a signatory.
11.03
.
Closing Deliverables
Section 3.02
      There shall not be any judicial restraining order or injunction,preliminary or otherwise, in effect prohibiting the Closing of the Contemplated Transactions. There shall not be pending or threatened any litigation or proceeding instituted by any Governmental Authority to restrain, prohibit or otherwise interfere with or obtain substantial monetary damages in connection with
11.04
Litigation.
 
the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions, or operation of the Refinery by Buyer after the Closing Date.
      The waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions shall have expired or been terminated under the HSR Act and (ii) any mandatory waiting period or required consent under any applicable state competition or antitrust law or regulation shall have expired or been obtained except where the failure to observe such waiting period or obtain a consent referred to in this clause (ii) would not reasonably be expected to delay or prevent the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions or have a material adverse effect on the expected benefits of the Contemplated Transactions to Buyer.
11.05
Governmental Consents.
      In the event that prior to Closing there shall be instituted or threatened in writing any governmental proceeding or other governmental action, including eminent domain, condemnation or other governmental proceeding, that there is a reasonable probability of Seller or Buyer (after Closing) losing any portion of or interest in the Purchased Assets, Seller shall promptly notify Buyer. Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to within thirty (30) days from the date of such notice, by giving notice to Seller of its election to terminate this Agreement if such proceeding or other action has or there is a reasonable probability of a taking of property that either materially impacts Operations or that has an estimated value (as determined by the Parties in good faith) in excess of Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000.000). If Buyer is not entitled to or, if entitled, does not timely terminate this Agreement, then Seller shall assign to Buyer at Closing any rights Seller may have to receive any payments (net of any expenses) as a result of any such proceeding or other action. In the event Seller and Buyer disagree over the probable economic impact of any such governmental proceeding or action then the Parties will resolve such dispute pursuant to
11.06
Taking of Purchased Assets.
Section 15.01
ARTICLE XVI.
      Prior to the Closing there shall not have been any material adverse change(s) in the Purchased Assets or Operations (excluding changes due to the economy generally or due to the petroleum industry (refining, marketing, transportation, terminalling and trading) generally or regionally and excluding repairs or replacements made pursuant to that has or there is a reasonable probability (as determined by the Parties in good faith) of having a value, individually or in the aggregate, in excess of Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000). In the event Seller and Buyer disagree over the probable economic impact of any such adverse change(s) then the Parties will resolve such dispute pursuant to
11.07
Adverse Change.
Section 8.07)
ARTICLE XVI.
     Notwithstanding the preceding sentences, Seller shall have the right, but not the obligation to correct or cure any such material adverse change(s) over Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000) at its sole option and cost prior to Closing, including material adverse change(s) due to a Force Majeure Event. Seller shall have the right, but not the obligation, to extend the Closing Date for up to thirty (30) days (but no later than the Termination Date) within which to use commercially reasonable efforts to cure or correct any such material adverse change. The foregoing shall not act to modify Seller's obligations under
Section 8.07.
     If Buyer shall waive the condition to Closing contained in this , then Seller shall assign and transfer to Buyer on the Closing Date all of Seller's right, title and interest to any insurance proceeds paid to Seller on account and to the extent of such material adverse change and Seller shall pay to Buyer the amount of any deductible under any applicable insurance policies.
Section 11.07
      Seller and Buyer, as applicable,shall have obtained the environmental consents, waivers and amendments set forth in
11.08
Environmental Consents/Waivers/Amendments.
Schedule 8.10.
 
      Seller shall have received (and shall have furnished copies thereof to Buyer) all consents and approvals of third parties required to transfer any Contracts for which consent or approval is required, except where the failure to obtain such consent or approval would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and provided Seller is unable to provide Buyer with the economic and functional benefits of such Contracts pursuant to Without limiting the generality of the preceding, Seller shall have received (and shall have furnished copies thereof to Buyer) such consents and approvals as necessary for the transfer and assignment of the Commitments set forth in
11.09
Required Consents and Authorizations.
Section 8.02(b).
Schedule 11.09.
      Buyer shall have received either material Permits (temporary or permanent) necessary for the operation of the Purchased Assets as they are being operated as of the date hereof or written notification from the appropriate Governmental Authorities that Buyer may operate temporarily under the material Permits of Seller or its Affiliates until similar Permits are issued to Buyer; that Buyer shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such Permits including providing any required financial deposits.
11.10
.
Regulatory Approvals
provided, however,
      Seller shall have completed the Turnaround Activities in all material respects and the processing units related to the Turnaround Activities shall have been successfully restarted after the completion of the Turnaround Activities.
11.11
.
Turnaround Activities
      The closing of the transactions contemplated by the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement (the shall have occurred concurrently with the Closing of the Contemplated Transactions pursuant to this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, under no circumstances shall either Party be obligated to consummate the Contemplated Transactions unless the transactions contemplated pursuant to the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement are concurrently consummated.
11.12
.
Retail Asset Purchase
"Retail Closing")
      The Title Company shall be unconditionally committed to issue the Title Policies.
11.13
.
Title Policies
      No surveys of the Real Property shall be required as a condition to Closing.
11.14
Surveys.
Seller's obligation to close the Contemplated Transactions is subject to the fulfillment, or waiver by Seller, on or prior to the Closing of each of the following:
      Buyer shall have performed and complied in all material respects with all covenants, agreements and conditions required by this Agreement to be performed or complied with by Buyer prior to the Closing Date.
12.01
Compliance with Agreement.
      The representations and warranties of Buyer made in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date, as though made on and as of the Closing Date, except for representations and warranties that speak as of a specific date or time (which need only be true and correct as of such date or time), except to the extent that such failure would not prevent Buyer to consummate the Contemplated Transactions.
12.02
.
Representations and Warranties
 
      Buyer shall be willing and able to enter into, and shall have delivered or caused to be delivered, at the Closing the items set forth in to which Buyer is to be a signatory.
12.03
Closing Deliverables.
Section 3.02
      There shall not be any judicial restraining order or injunction, preliminary or otherwise, in effect prohibiting the Closing of the Contemplated Transactions. There shall not be pending or threatened any litigation or proceeding instituted by any Governmental Authority to restrain, prohibit or otherwise interfere with or obtain substantial monetary damages in connection with the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions, or the operation of the Refinery by Buyer after the Closing Date.
12.04
Litigation.
      The waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions shall have expired or been terminated under the HSR Act and (ii) any mandatory waiting period or required consent under any applicable state competition or antitrust law or regulation shall have expired or been obtained except where the failure to observe such waiting period or obtain a consent referred to in this clause (ii) would not reasonably be expected to delay or prevent the consummation of the Contemplated Transactions or have a material adverse effect on the expected benefits of the Contemplated Transactions to Buyer.
12.05
Governmental Consents.
      Seller and Buyer, as applicable,shall have obtained the environmental consents, waivers and amendments set forth in
12.06
Environmental Consents/Waivers/Amendments.
Schedule 8.10.
      The Retail Closing shall have occurred concurrently with the Closing of the Contemplated Transactions pursuant to this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt,under no circumstances shall either Party be obligated to consummate the Contemplated Transaction sunless the transactions contemplated pursuant to the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement are concurrently consummated.
12.07
Retail Asset Purchase.
      Except as otherwise provided herein and subject to the provisions of this from and after the Closing Date, Buyer shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless, Seller, its Affiliates, and their respective directors, officers, employees, shareholders, partners, counsel, auditors, accountants, agents, advisors and other representatives and each of the heirs, executors, successors and permitted assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the ), from and against any and all Losses to the extent caused by, arising from or incurred in connection with or relate to:
13.01
Buyer's Indemnification of Seller.
ARTICLE XIII,
"Seller Indemnified Parties"
               (i) Buyer's modification of any Intellectual Property, software or Licensed Technology Rights licensed to Buyer pursuant to this Agreement, which modification was not made under the direction or at the suggestion of Seller, and only to the extent that the claim would not have arisen but for such modification;
               (ii) Buyer's breach of or failure to perform any covenant or agreement in this Agreement or the Related Agreements (excluding the HSE Agreement and the Commercial Agreements);
               (iii) Buyer's breach of any representation or warranty in this Agreement or the Related Agreements (excluding the HSE Agreement and the Commercial Agreements);
 
that Buyer shall not have any liability under this clause (iii) for any breach of a representation or warranty contained in this Agreement or the Related Agreements if Seller had Knowledge (without a duty of inquiry) of such breach at the time of Closing and failed to notify Buyer in writing of such breach;
provided, however,
               (iv) the Assumed Liabilities (other than any environmental matters related to Excluded Assets or Retained Liabilities, which are governed by the HSE Agreement) but excluding such Losses to the extent caused by, arising from or incurred in connection with or relate to the post-Closing acts or omissions of the Seller Indemnified Parties or their contractors, licensees and invitees; and
               (v) to the extent Buyer offers securities to the public in connection with the Contemplated Transactions, then any liability under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any other federal or state "blue sky" or securities or other law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, including any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact relating to or contained in any preliminary prospectus, registration statement or any prospectus forming a part thereof, or any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, unless such information that was provided in writing by Seller was untrue, inaccurate and not expressly disclaimed, it being agreed that the foregoing indemnity shall not limit any rights under that may apply in respect of the factual circumstance that gave rise to such liability.
Section 13.02
     BUYER UNDERSTANDS, ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT SUCH INDEMNIFICATION MAY INCLUDE AN INDEMNIFICATION OF THE SELLER INDEMNIFIED PARTIES FOR AND AGAINST EACH OF THEIR OWN PRE-CLOSING NEGLIGENCE.
      Except as otherwise provided herein and subject to the provisions of this from and after the Closing Date, Seller shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless, Buyer, its Affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, shareholders, partners, counsel, auditors, accountants, agents, advisors and other representatives and each of the heirs, executors, successors and permitted assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the from and against any and all Losses to the extent caused by, arising from or incurred in connection with or relate to:
13.02
Seller's Indemnification of Buyer.
ARTICLE XIII.
"Buyer Indemnified Parties"
)
               (i) the Excluded Assets and the Retained Liabilities (other than any environmental matters related to Excluded Assets or Retained Liabilities, which are governed by the HSE Agreement) but excluding such Losses to the extent caused by, arising from or incurred in connection with or relate to the post-Closing acts or omissions of the Buyer Indemnified Parties or their contractors, licensees and invitees;
               (ii) Seller's breach of or failure to perform any covenant or agreement in this Agreement or the Related Agreements (excluding the HSE Agreement and the Commercial Agreements);
               (iii) Seller's breach of any representation or warranty in this Agreement or the Related Agreements (excluding the HSE Agreement and the Commercial Agreements); that Seller shall not have any liability under this clause (iii) for any breach of a representation or warranty contained in this Agreement or the Related Agreements if
provided, however,
 
Buyer had Knowledge (without a duty of inquiry) of such breach at the time of Closing and failed to notify Seller in writing of such breach;
               (iv) any failure by Seller to comply with the provisions, if any, of state or local bulk sales laws; and
               (v) the Blend Plant Real Property and the Blend Plant Improvements (excluding HSE Claims) in the event the Subdivision Condition has not been satisfied as of the Closing Date but excluding such Losses to the extent caused by, arising from or incurred in connection with or relate to the post-Closing acts or omissions of the Buyer Indemnified Parties or their contractors, licensees and invitees.
      Seller's and Buyer's environmental indemnifications are governed by the terms of the HSE Agreement.
13.03
Environmental Indemnifications.
      Any Claim or cause of action based on, arising out of or relating in any way to any of the Contemplated Transactions (including all Exhibits and Schedules or referenced herein or therein, but excluding for this purpose the HSE Agreement and the Commercial Agreements)must be brought by either Buyer or Seller in accordance with the provisions and limitations of this Agreement, whether such claim arises out of any contract, tort or otherwise but excluding in each case any Claim relating to fraud or intentional misrepresentation in the negotiation or execution of this Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement and if the Closing occurs, each Party here by waives (on its behalf and on behalf of its other Indemnified Parties) to the fullest extent permitted under Applicable Laws, any and all rights, claims and causes of action they may have against one another relating to the subject matter of this Agreement or the Related Agreements (excluding the HSE Agreement and the Commercial Agreements) arising under or based on any Applicable Law, including such rights, claims and causes of action Buyer may have against Seller under breaches of statutory or implied warranties or otherwise, nuisance or other tort actions, and common law rights of contribution. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the rights accorded Buyer and Seller under the HSE Agreement are their sole and exclusive remedies against each other or any of each other's respective Affiliates with respect to the matters contained therein.
13.04
Exclusive Remedy.
      Following the discovery of any facts or conditions that could reasonably be expected to give rise to a Loss or Losses for which indemnification is provided under this Agreement, the Indemnified Party shall, as promptly as reasonably possible thereafter, provide written notice (a to the Indemnifying Party setting forth the specific facts and circumstances, in reasonable detail, relating to such Loss or Losses and the amount of Loss or Losses (or a good-faith estimate thereof if the actual amount is not known or not capable of reasonable calculation); that failure to give such Claim Notice on a timely basis shall not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party shall have been actually and materially prejudiced as a result of such failure to provide a Claim Notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing:
13.05
Procedures Relating to Indemnification Between Buyer and Seller.
"Claim Notice")
provided, however,
(i) a Buyer Indemnified Party shall not be entitled to indemnity hereunder against Seller under unless and until (A) such Indemnified Party shall have provided Seller written notice of such claim; and (B) Seller shall have failed to cure such claim, if curable, within sixty (60) days after Seller's receipt of a Claim Notice; and
Sections 13.02(ii) or 13.02(iii)
(ii) a Seller Indemnified Party shall not be entitled to indemnity hereunder against Buyer under unless and until (A) such Indemnified Party
Sections 13.01(ii) or 13.01(iii)
 
shall have provided Buyer written notice of such claim; and (B) Buyer shall have failed to cure such claim, if curable, within sixty (60) days after Buyer's receipt of a Claim Notice.
     
13.06
Procedures Relating to Indemnification for Third Party Claims.
                    (a) With respect to any indemnification provided for under this Agreement in respect of, arising out of or involving a claim or demand made by any Person against an Indemnified Party (a such Indemnified Party must provide a Claim Notice to the Indemnifying Party of the Third Party Claim as promptly as reasonably practicable after receipt by such Indemnified Party of notice of the Third Party Claim. Thereafter, the Indemnified Party shall promptly deliver to the Indemnifying Party copies of all notices and documents (including court papers) received by the Indemnified Party relating to the Third Party Claim; that the failure to provide a Claim Notice, or deliver copies of all notices and documents, in a reasonably timely manner shall not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent the Indemnifying Party shall have been actually and materially prejudiced as a result of such failure.
"Third Party Claim"),
provided, however,
                    (b) If a Third Party Claim is made against an Indemnified Party, the Indemnified Party shall permit the Indemnifying Party to participate in the defense thereof (it being understood that the Indemnified Party shall control such defense unless the Indemnifying Party assumes such defense as provided herein) and, if the Indemnifying Party so chooses and acknowledges its obligation to indemnify the Indemnified Party therefor, to assume the defense thereof with counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party provided that such counsel is reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party. Notwithstanding any acknowledgment made pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, the Indemnifying Party shall continue to be entitled to assert any limitation on its indemnification responsibility contained in Should the Indemnifying Party so elect to assume the defense of such Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable to the Indemnified Party for legal expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection with the defense thereof provided the Indemnifying Party does not seek to assert any limitation on its indemnification responsibility to the Indemnified Party. If the Indemnifying Party assumes such defense, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to participate in the defense thereof and to employ counsel, at its own expense, separate from the counsel employed by the Indemnifying Party, it being understood, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall control such defense subject to the agreement of the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party to cooperate in the defense of such Third Party Claim as provided below. The Indemnifying Party shall be liable for the fees and expenses of counsel employed by the Indemnified Party for any period during which the Indemnifying Party has not assumed the defense thereof or assumes the defense but asserts any limitation on its obligation to indemnify or defend which reduces its indemnification actions. If the Indemnifying Party chooses to defend any Third Party Claim, the Parties shall reasonably cooperate in the defense or prosecution of such Third Party Claim. Such cooperation shall include the retention and (upon the Indemnifying Party's request) the provision to the Indemnifying Party of records and information which are reasonably relevant to such Third Party Claim and making employees available on a mutually convenient basis to provide additional information and explanation of any material provided hereunder. Whether or not the Indemnifying Party shall have assumed the defense of a Third Party Claim, the Indemnified Party shall not admit any liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to such Third Party Claim without the Indemnifying Party's prior written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). The Indemnifying Party shall not consent to the entry of any judgment or enter into any settlement with respect to the Third Party Claim without the Indemnified Party's prior written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed); such consent of the Indemnified Party shall not be required in the event of the entry of such judgment or entering into a settlement with respect to such Third Party Claim does not include (i)
Sections 13,08 and 13.09.
provided, however,
 
the admission of any liability or responsibility on behalf of the Indemnified Party, (ii) any financial obligation to be paid by the Indemnified Party or (iii) any sanction or restriction upon the conduct of any business of the Indemnified Party.
      The amount of any and all Losses under this and elsewhere under this Agreement (but excluding Losses related to the HSE Agreement) shall be determined net of any amounts that are recovered by an Indemnified Party under insurance policies with respect to such Losses. Each Party hereby waives, or will procure the waiver of, any subrogation rights that its insurer may have with respect to any indemnifiable Losses.
13.07
Losses Net of Insurance.
ARTICLE XIII
      (i)All of the representations and warranties of Seller contained in this Agreement (other than and 4.14) shall survive the Closing for a period of two (2) years after the Closing Date; (ii) the representations and warranties of Seller in shall survive the Closing for a period off our (4) years after the Closing Date; (iii) the representations and warranties in and shall survive the Closing until the expiration of the statute of limitations applicable to the underlying matter giving rise to that claim; and (iv) the representations and warranties of Seller in shall survive the Closing forever. The representations and warranties of Buyer contained in this Agreement shall survive the Closing for a period of two (2) years after the Closing Date; the representations and warranties of Buyer in shall survive the Closing forever. The expiration of representations and warranties of any Party shall not limit or impair such Party's covenants contained in this Agreement, which shall survive the Closing in accordance with their respective terms. A claim shall be deemed to have been properly brought only upon delivery of a proper Claim Notice to the other Party within the applicable time periods provided above at the notice address set forth in For the avoidance of doubt, the initial date of delivery of a Claim Notice, and not the expiration of any cure period, shall be deemed to be the date a claim is made. Any claim required to be made within an applicable time period provided above that is not so timely made shall be forever barred.
13.08
Survival of Representations and Warranties.
Sections 4.01. 4.02. 4.05. 4.06. 4.09. 4.12
Sections 4.05 and 4.09
Sections 4.12
4.14
Sections 4.01, 4.02 and 4.06
provided,however,
Sections 5.01 and 5.02
Section 17.01.
     
13.09
Limitations on Indemnification.
          (a) With respect of any claim by a Party for indemnity under this Agreement or the Related Agreements (excluding the HSE Agreement and the Commercial Agreements) that does not involve a Third Party Claim, no Party shall seek, and an arbitrator appointed under may not award, any indirect, special, punitive, exemplary or consequential damages or Losses. Nothing in this shall limit in any way a Party's indemnification obligations with respect to a Third Party Claim or a Claim under the HSE Agreement or the Commercial Agreements.
ARTICLE XVI
Section 13.09(a)
          (b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement,the following limitations shall apply with regard to Seller's obligations to indemnify the Buyer Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 13.02(iii):
               (i) Seller's liability to indemnify pursuant to Section 13.02(iii) for any breach by Seller of any of its representations or warranties herein shall never exceed, in the aggregate, an amount equal to Seventy-Fifty Million Dollars ($75,000,000); such limit amount shall be reduced to the extent of Losses paid by Seller pursuant to or of the HSE Agreement. The limitations on Seller's indemnification obligations set forth in the preceding sentence shall not apply to Losses resulting from (y) any breach or default by Seller of or (z) fraud or willful misconduct by Seller in the negotiation or execution of this Agreement; that Seller's liability for breaches or defaults of
provided, however,
Sections 3.02(a)
3.02(c)
Sections 4.01. 4.02. 4.05. 4.06 and 4.12
provided, however,
Sections 4.01, 4.02. 4.05.
 
shall never exceed, when added to all other Losses paid by Seller pursuant to the HSE Agreement (but excluding Losses paid by Seller pursuant to of the HSE Agreement), in the aggregate, an amount equal to the Closing Date Payment.
4.06 or 4.12
Section 3.02(d)
               (ii) Seller will not have any liability for any Losses for any breach by Seller of any of its representations or warranties herein unless and until the aggregate Losses for which Buyer is entitled to recover under this Agreement and under the HSE Agreement for any breach by Seller of any of its representations or warranties contained herein and therein, exceeds in the aggregate an amount equal to One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) (the The Seller Threshold Amount shall not apply to Losses resulting from fraud or willful misconduct by Seller in the negotiation or execution of this Agreement. Once the applicable Losses exceed the Seller Threshold Amount, Buyer will be entitled to recover all such Losses to which it is entitled in excess of the Seller Threshold Amount. Notwithstanding the preceding sentences to the contrary, the limitations on Seller's indemnification obligations set forth in this subparagraph (ii) shall not apply to Losses resulting from any breach by Seller of any of its representations or warranties set forth in
"Seller Threshold Amount").
Sections 4.01. 4.02. 4.05. 4.06 and 4.12.
      The indemnification obligations of an Indemnifying Party shall be appropriately reduced to the extent an Indemnified Party does not use reasonable steps and use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any and all Losses, it being understood and agreed that to the extent any Indemnified Party undertakes such mitigation efforts, the costs of such efforts may be included in the calculation of indemnifiable Losses hereunder.
13.10
Mitigation.
      In the event that an Indemnified Party has a right of recovery against any third party non-insurers with respect to any Losses in connection with which a payment is made to such Indemnified Party by an Indemnifying Party; then (i) such Indemnifying Party shall, to the extent of such payment, be subrogated to all of the rights of recovery of such Indemnified Party against such third party with respect to such Losses; and (ii) such Indemnified Party shall execute all papers reasonably required and take all commercially reasonable action necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents as are necessary to enable such Indemnifying Party to bring suit to enforce such rights.
13.11
Subrogation.
      Except as provided in this , Buyer and Seller shall each be liable for and pay one-half of all sales, use, transfer or similar Taxes that arise as a result of the transfer of the Purchased Assets. By way of example, but not exclusion, Buyer and Seller shall each pay one-half of real estate transfer Taxes, sales Taxes, business occupation Taxes, applicable motor fuel Taxes, applicable environmental Taxes on all petroleum products transferred, and any other Taxes assessed or imposed in each case on the transfer or sale of the Purchased Assets and all costs to record any deeds. To the extent such Taxes are paid by Seller, Buyer shall reimburse Seller within thirty (30) days after invoice from Seller for any such Taxes. Buyer shall file, or cause to be filed, all required reports and returns incident to all Taxes, real property Taxes, personal property Taxes and similar obligations, which reports and returns are due after the Closing Date and shall pay or cause to be paid to the taxing authorities all such Taxes reflected on such reports or returns even if same are for periods prior to the Closing Date and Seller shall reimburse Buyer within thirty (30) days after invoice for any such Taxes and similar obligations that are attributable to any period prior to the Closing Date.
14.01
Transfer Taxes.
ARTICLE XIV
ad valorem
 
Notwithstanding the preceding to the contrary, Buyer shall pay all Taxes for the transfer of any Permits including HSE Permits (but excluding transfer Taxes, if any, payable by Seller pursuant to
Section 8.12).
      General and special real estate and other Taxes and assessments and other state or local Taxes, fees, charges and assessments in respect of real property on the basis of the fiscal year in which the Closing occurs shall be prorated between Buyer and Seller as of the Closing Dale. If the Closing Date shall occur before the tax rate or assessment is fixed for such fiscal year, the apportionment of such Taxes and payments at the Closing shall be based upon the most recently ascertainable Tax bills; provided, that Buyer and Seller shall recalculate and re-prorate said Taxes and payments and make the necessary cash adjustments promptly upon the issuance, and on the basis, of the actual Tax bills received for the fiscal year in which the Closing occurs and the amount of any payments in lieu of Tax made with respect to any such fiscal year.
14.02
Real Property Taxes.
ad valorem
      Personal property Taxes, if any, on the basis of the fiscal year in which the Closing occurs shall be prorated between Buyer and Seller as of the Closing Date. If the Closing Date shall occur before the tax rate or assessment is fixed for such fiscal year, the apportionment of such Taxes at the Closing shall be based upon a reasonable estimate agreed upon by Buyer and Seller;provided, that Buyer and Seller shall recalculate and re-prorate said Taxes and make the necessary cash adjustments promptly upon the issuance of, and on the basis of, the actual Tax bills received for such fiscal year.
14.03
Personal Property Taxes.
      Seller and Buyer shall negotiate in good faith prior to the Closing to agree upon an allocation of the Closing Date Payment (the in the form of In the event the Parties are unable to finalize the Tax Allocation prior to the Closing then the Parties shall attempt to finalize the Tax Allocation within sixty (60) days after the Closing Date,the Parties shall not be obligated to reach Agreement. If Agreement is reached, the Parties shall treat and report (and, if necessary, to cause each of their respective Affiliates to so treat and report) the sale and purchase of the Purchased Assets for all federal, state and local Tax purposes in a manner consistent with the Tax Allocation and shall not take any position on their respective Tax Returns that is inconsistent with the Tax Allocation. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, the Tax Allocation will be reflected in Form 8594 that will be filed by Seller and Buyer in accordance with Section 1060 of the Code and in any other filings under the Code. The Parties recognize that the Tax Allocation does not include Buyer's acquisition expenses and that Buyer will allocate such expenses appropriately.
14.04
Tax Allocation.
"Tax
)
Allocation"
Schedule 14.04.
provided, however,
      Either Party may elect to structure the conveyance, transfer or assignment of all or an applicable portion of the Purchased Assets as a tax-free exchange pursuant to Section 1031 of the Code (a provided that (i) such Party gives notice of such election to the other Party at least fifteen (15) days prior to the Closing Date, (ii) provided that Buyer shall not be required to take title to any other property and (iii) such structure does not have any adverse effect on the on the other Party. If such an exchange is elected by such Party (the the Parties will use commercially reasonable efforts to execute all necessary 1031 Exchange documents (provided, that any costs and expenses incurred shall be borne by the Electing Party), that shall be in a form mutually acceptable to the Parties. The Electing Party will indemnify (subject to the other Party and its Affiliates, employees and agents against Losses that may be sustained by them on account of or in connection with such election to structure the transaction as a 1031 Exchange.
14.05
Tax Election.
"1031 Exchange"),
"Electing Party"),
ARTICLE XIII)
      After the Closing Date, each Party shall provide such assistance as the other Party may from time to time reasonably request in connection with the preparation of Tax Returns required to be filed, any audit or other examination by any taxing authority, any judicial or administrative proceeding relating to liability for Taxes, or any claim for refund in respect of such Taxes
14.06
Tax Assistance.
 
or in connection with any litigation and proceedings or liabilities related to the Purchased Assets, including making available employees for interviews, litigation preparation and testimony. The requesting Party shall reimburse the assisting Party for the out-of-pocket costs incurred by the assisting Party.
      Except as provided in this Buyer shall be liable for and pay all Taxes that arise as result of the sale, rental, lease, storage, use, consumption or operation of the Purchased Assets by Buyer after the Effective Time.
14.07
Operating Taxes.
ARTICLE XIV,
      Seller shall retain and agree to pay,perform and discharge when due, payments of California Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Fees to the extent assessed and issued to Seller. Buyer shall assume and agree to pay, perform and discharge when due, payments of California Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Fees to the extent assessed and issued to Buyer.
14.08
Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Fees.
      This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing Date as follows and in no other manner:
15.01
Termination.
          (i) by mutual written consent of Buyer and Seller;
          (ii) by Buyer in the event the Closing shall not have occurred on or before June 1, 2007 or such later date as the Parties agree in writing (the (including due to non satisfaction or fulfillment of the conditions set forth in (but provided that such failure to close is not due (A) primarily to Buyer breaching any representation, warranty or covenant of Buyer contained in this Agreement or (B) to the failure to satisfy as of June 1, 2007);
"Termination Date")
ARTICLE XI)
Section 11.05
          (iii) by Seller in the event the Closing shall not have occurred on or before the Termination Date (including due to non satisfaction or fulfillment of the conditions set forth in (but provided that such failure to close is not due (A) primarily to Seller breaching any representation, warranty or covenant contained in this Agreement or (B) to the failure to satisfy as of June 1, 2007);
ARTICLE XI)
Section 12.05
          (iv) by either Party pursuant to the provisions of ;
Section 6.03
          (v) by Seller or Buyer pursuant to the provisions of ;
Section 8.07
          (vi) by Buyer pursuant to the provisions of ;
Section 11.06
          (vii) by either Party if such terminating Party terminates the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement pursuant to an express right to do so by the terminating Party pursuant to the provisions of the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement.
      If all conditions to Closing set forth in and are satisfied other than the conditions set forth in and then the Termination Date shall be extended to such date as the Parties mutually agree, but in the event the Parties do not mutually agree, then the Termination Date shall be extended to July 1, 2007 and after July 1, 2007 either Party may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice in the event the Closing conditions set
15.02
Extended Termination Date.
ARTICLE XI
ARTICLE XII
Sections 11.05
12.05,
 
forth in this Agreement, including under and have not been satisfied by such extended Termination Date.
Sections 11.05
12.05
      In the event of termination by Buyer or Seller pursuant to written notice thereof shall forthwith be given to the other Party and the Contemplated Transactions shall be terminated, without further action by any Party. If the Contemplated Transactions are terminated as provided herein:
15.03
Notice of Termination.
Section 15.01,
(i) Buyer shall return to Seller all documents and copies and other materials received from, or on behalf of, Seller relating to the Contemplated Transactions, whether so obtained before or after the execution hereof; and
(ii) all confidential information received by Buyer with respect to the Purchased Assets and the Assumed Liabilities shall be treated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the which shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement.
Section 17.14,
      If this Agreement is terminated and the Contemplated Transactions are abandoned as described in this . this Agreement shall have no further force and effect, except for the provisions of:
15.04
Effect of Termination.
ARTICLE XV
               (i) and relating to finder's fees and broker's fees;
Sections 4.05
5.06
               (ii) relating to the obligation of Buyer to keep confidential certain information and data obtained by it;
Section 7.01
               (iii) relating to indemnification in connection with the matters contemplated thereby;
Section 7.02
               (iv) this
ARTICLE XV;
               (v) related to mediation and arbitration;
ARTICLE XVI
               (vi) relating to governing law, etc.;
Section 17.02
               (vii) relating to publicity;
Section 17.03
               (viii) relating to certain expenses; and
Section 17.07
               (ix) related to confidentiality.
Section 17.14
Nothing in this shall be deemed to release any Party from any liability for any breach by such Party of the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XV
      In the event of the default or breach of this Agreement (i) by Seller that results in the failure to consummate the sale of the Purchased Assets to Buyer or (ii) by Buyer that results in the failure to consummate the re-conveyance of the Blend Plant Real Property to Seller,then Buyer or Seller, as applicable, shall be entitled to seek specific performance of such transactions as provided for herein in any action instituted in any court of the United States or any state thereof having jurisdiction over the Parties and the matter (subject to the provisions set forth in and Section 17.02). in addition to any other remedy to which a Party may be entitled, at law or in equity.
15.05
Specific Performance.
ARTICLE XVI
 
Notwithstanding the preceding to the contrary, the remedy of specific performance shall only be available to any Party if the transactions contemplated by both this Agreement and the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement are consummated concurrently in connection with specific performance relief.
     . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement, in the event a Party (the
15.06
Cross Default
"Defaulting Party"):
          (i) breaches its obligation to consummate the Retail Closing without a contractual right to refuse to consummate such transaction, then such breach shall also constitute a breach of this Agreement by the Defaulting Party for which damages may be asserted against the Defaulting Party or for which specific performance pursuant to may be sought in each case for the Defaulting Party's failure to close the Contemplated Transactions; or
Section 15.05
          (ii) breaches its representations, warranties or covenants contained in the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement to the extent that permits the nonbreaching Party (pursuant to the terms of the Retail Asset Purchase Agreement) to not consummate the Retail Closing and which results in the failure of the Retail Closing to occur, then such breach shall also constitute a breach of this Agreement by the Defaulting Party for which damages may be asserted against the Defaulting Party for the failure of the closing of the Contemplated Transactions.
     . Any Claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Related Agreements (excluding the Commercial Agreements which shall be governed by the terms thereof), or the performance, breach, validity, interpretation, application, or termination thereof (a"") whether based on contract, tort, statute or other legal or equitable theory (including any Claim of fraud, misrepresentation or fraudulent inducement or any question of validity or effect of this Agreement including this section) shall be settled by mediation and consultations between the Parties initiated upon the written notice (the "") of any Party. In the event of failure of such mediation and consultations to settle such Claim in a manner acceptable to all Parties within thirty (30)days following the Mediation Notice, then any such Claim shall be finally resolved by arbitration initiated upon the written notice (the "") of any Party. The arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with this Agreement and the then current American Arbitration Association Commercial Arbitration Rules including Procedures for Large, Complex Commercial Disputes and Optional Rules for Emergency Measures of Protection (collectively, the ""), and judgment on the award may been tered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.
16.1
Dispute Resolution
Dispute
Mediation Notice
Arbitration Notice
AAA Rules
     .
16.2
Seat of the Arbitration and Governing Law
          (a) The seat of the arbitration shall be Houston, Texas or such other major city as mutually agreeable to the Parties.
          (b) Upon agreement of the Parties and the arbitrators, pre-hearing conferences and evidentiary hearings may be held in other locations, however the seat of the arbitration will be deemed to remain unchanged and any awards or orders will be deemed to have been made at the seat of the arbitration.
 
          (c) The arbitrator(s) shall decide the issues submitted as arbitrators at law only and the Panel shall base its award, and any interim awards, upon the terms of this Agreement and the substantive laws of the State of Texas, excluding the conflicts provisions of such law. The Panel is not empowered to and shall not act as or
amiable compositers
ex aequo el bono.
     
16.03
Selection and Appointment of Arbitrator(s).
          (a) In the event that any Party's claim or counterclaim equals or exceeds,directly or indirectly, one million dollars ($l,000,000)(including a Claim for injunctive relief, declaratory relief or other relief that is reasonably expected to have an economic impact on any Party in excess of $1,000,000), exclusive of interest or attorneys' fees, the Dispute shall be heard and determined by three(3) arbitrators; otherwise, the Dispute shall be heard and determined by one (1) arbitrator. Any and all arbitrators appointed hereunder shall be independent and impartial.
          (b) In the event that one (1) arbitrator shall hear the Dispute, the Parties shall attempt to agree upon a qualified individual to serve as arbitrator. If the Parties are unable to so agree within thirty (30) days of the Arbitration Notice, then the Dispute shall be heard and determined by (3)arbitrators selected and appointed in accordance with the procedure set out in . The arbitrator selected shall be qualified by education, training, and experience to hear and determine matters in the nature of the Dispute.
Section 16.03(c)
          (c) In the event that three (3) arbitrators shall hear the Dispute, the Parties shall, within twenty (20) days after the Arbitration Notice (or after expiration of the initial thirty (30) days if three (3) arbitrators are being appointed pursuant to , each select one person to act as arbitrator. The two arbitrators so selected shall, within twenty (20) days of their appointment, select a third arbitrator who shall serve as the chairperson of the Arbitral Panel. The arbitrators selected shall be qualified by education, training, and experience to hear and determine matters in the nature of the Dispute.
Section 16.03(b))
          (d) If there are multiple claimants or multiple respondents in any arbitration having three arbitrators, and such claimants or respondents are unable to agree among themselves on the selection and appointment of an arbitrator within twenty (20) days after the Arbitration Notice, then that arbitrator shall be selected and appointed in accordance with the procedure set out in of this Agreement.
Section 16.03(e)
          (e) If a Party fails to appoint an arbitrator as provided herein, or if the arbitrators selected by the Parties are unable or fail to agree upon a third arbitrator within twenty (20) days of their appointment, then that arbitrator shall be selected and appointed pursuant to the selection procedure set forth in the AAA Rules; , that such selection and appointment shall be conducted on an expedited basis and shall be completed within twenty (20) days from failure to appoint or to agree within the periods stated above.
provided, however
          (f) Should an arbitrator die, resign, refuse to act, or become incapable of performing his or her functions as an arbitrator, the AAA may declare a vacancy on the Panel. The vacancy shall be filled by the method by which that arbitrator was originally appointed.
          (g) The arbitrator(s) shall be bound by and shall follow the then current ABA/AAA Code of Ethics for Arbitrators in Commercial Disputes.
 
     
16.04
Pre-Hearing Procedure and Disposition.
          (a) At the request of a Party, the Panel may take such interim measures and make such interim orders as it deems necessary, including measures for the preservation of assets, the conservation of goods, or the sale of perishable goods. The Panel may require appropriate security as a condition of ordering such measures.
          (b) At any time after the Panel is constituted and upon motion of any Party, the Panel may hear and determine any preliminary issue of law asserted by a Party to be dispositive, in whole or in part, of any claim or defense, pursuant to such procedures as the Panel deems appropriate.
          (c) At any time after the Panel is constituted and upon motion of any Party, the Panel may summarily determine and dismiss, in whole or in part, any claim or issue in dispute (i) if the Party asserting it has failed to state a claim as a matter of law, or (ii) if the pleadings and evidence show that no genuine issue of material fact exists with respect to any element of the claim or defense and that the moving Party is entitled to disposition of the claim or defense as a matter of law.
          (d) If the Panel deems it appropriate, keeping in mind the expedited nature of arbitration proceedings, the arbitral proceedings may be bifurcated according to claims or issues, and claims or issues may be heard and determined separately as may be appropriate.
16.05
Discovery.
          (a) The Parties shall promptly exchange copies of all exhibits and witness lists,and, if requested by a Party, to produce other relevant documents, to answer up to ten (10) interrogatories(including subparts), to respond to up to ten (10) requests for admissions (which shall be deemed admitted if not denied) and to produce for deposition and, if requested, at the hearing all witnesses that such Party has listed. Any additional discovery shall only occur by agreement of the Parties or as ordered by the Panel upon a finding of good cause.
          (b) The Panel shall take into account applicable principles of legal privilege and related protections, such as those involving the confidentiality of communications between a lawyer and a client and the work product of a lawyer, and no Party or witness may be required to waive any privilege recognized at law. The Panel shall issue orders as reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of proprietary information, trade secrets, and other sensitive information disclosed.
     
16.06
Awards and Relief.
          (a) All awards shall be in writing, shall state the reasoning upon which the award rests and shall be final and binding on the Parties. Any award shall be made and signed by at least a majority of the arbitrators.
          (b) The Parties hereby waive any claim to exemplary, punitive, or similar damages in excess of compensatory damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses of arbitration, and the Panel is not empowered to and shall not award exemplary, punitive, or similar damages in excess of compensatory damages and attorneys' fees, costs, and expenses of arbitration.
          (c) The Panel is expressly empowered to grant any remedy or relief not expressly prohibited herein available under the applicable law, including specific performance of this Agreement to the extent allowed by law, declaration of the validity, meaning, and effect of this Agreement and the rights or duties of the Parties hereunder, and, to the extent allowed by law, prohibiting
 
or mandating actions by a Party with respect to the performance of this Agreement or matters arising out of or in connection therewith.
          (d) In its award, the Panel may apportion the costs of arbitration between or among the Parties in such manner as it deems reasonable, taking into account the circumstances of the case, the conduct of the Parties during the proceedings, and the result of the arbitration, including requiring one Party to bear all or the majority of such costs.
          (e) In the event that any Party fails or refuses to participate in arbitration as provided herein, the Panel is authorized to determine whether the failure to participate in the arbitration was due to the bad faith of a Party, and if so may award to the other Party or Parties all costs associated with the arbitration, including attorneys' fees and costs, arbitrator's fees, and administrative fees.
          (f) Unless otherwise ordered by the Panel as part of its award, each Party shall bear its own costs and expenses and the costs of arbitration, and the fees and expenses of the arbitrators and of any expert or other assistance engaged by the Panel shall be borne by the Parties to the arbitration in equal shares.
     
16.07
Effect of Failure to Participate or to Pay Advances of Costs and Fees.
          (a) The failure or refusal of any Party, having been given due notice thereof, to participate at any stage of the dispute resolution proceedings shall not prevent the proceedings from continuing, nor shall such failure or refusal impair the validity of the award or cause the award to be void or voidable, nor shall it be a basis for challenge of the validity or enforceability of the award or of the arbitration proceedings.
          (b) If any Party fails to timely pay an advance on fees and costs ordered by the Panel or the AAA within twenty (20) days after the date set for such deposit, that Party shall be deemed to be in default. The Panel or the AAA shall then determine whether the funds on deposit are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated estimated expenses for the proceeding to continue on an expedited basis without the participation of the defaulting Party. If so, the proceeding will continue without the participation of the defaulting Party, and the Panel may enter an award on default. Prior to entering an award on default,the Panel shall require the non-defaulting Party to produce such evidence and legal argument in support of its contentions as the Panel may deem appropriate. The Panel may receive such evidence and argument without the defaulting Party's presence or participation. If the funds on deposit are deemed insufficient to satisfy the estimated costs of continuing as provided herein, the non-defaulting Party may make all or part of the requested deposit in an amount sufficient to allow the proceeding to continue without the participation of the defaulting Party. If the non-defaulting Party chooses not to make the requested deposit, the Panel may suspend or terminate the proceedings.
     
16.08
Adherence to Time Limits.
          (a) In accepting appointment, the arbitrator(s) shall commit that their schedules permit them to devote the reasonably necessary time and attention to the arbitration proceedings and to resolving the Dispute within the time periods set by this Agreement and by the AAA Rules.
          (b) Any time limits set out in this dispute resolution agreement or in the AAA Rules may be modified upon written agreement of the Parties and the Panel or by order of the Panel.
          (c) Any failure of the Panel to satisfy such time limits or to render a final award within the time specified shall not impair the validity of the award or cause the award to be void or
 
voidable, nor shall it be a basis for challenge of the validity or enforceability of the award or of the arbitration proceedings.
     
16.09
Interim Measures from the Courts in Aid of Arbitration.
          (a) At any time after submission of a written notice of arbitration, any Party may request a court of competent jurisdiction to grant interim measures of protection: (a) to preserve the status quo pending resolution of the Dispute; (b) to prevent the destruction of documents and other information or things related to the Dispute; (c) to prevent the transfer, dissipation, or hiding of assets; and/or (d) to aid the arbitral proceedings and the award. A request for such interim measures to a judicial authority shall not be deemed incompatible with or a waiver of a Party's right to arbitrate a Dispute.
          (b) The Parties agree that a court at the seat of the arbitration at the request of a Party, or the Panel with the consent of all Parties, may consolidate two or more arbitral proceedings among the Parties if there exist common questions of law or fact.
      The Parties hereby consent to the jurisdiction of the state and federal courts of Harris County, Texas for the enforcement of any award rendered by the Panel.
16.10
Consent to Jurisdiction.
      Unless the Parties agree otherwise, the Parties, the arbitrator(s), and the AAA shall treat the dispute resolution proceedings provided for herein, any related disclosures, and the decisions of the Panel, as confidential, except in connection with judicial proceedings ancillary to the dispute resolution proceedings, such as a judicial challenge to, or enforcement of, the arbitral award, and unless otherwise required by law to protect a legal right of a Party.
16.11
Confidentiality.
      The terms of this shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
16.12
Survival.
ARTICLE XVI
      All notices or other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or sent by prepaid telex or telecopy, or sent, postage prepaid, by registered, certified or express mail, or reputable overnight courier service and shall be deemed given when so delivered by hand, telexed or faxed, or if mailed, five (5) days after mailing (one (1) Business Day in the case of express mail or overnight courier service), as follows:
17.01
Notices.
If to Buyer:
Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company 300 Concord Plaza Drive San Antonio, Texas 78216 Attn: Chief Operating Officer Fax: (210) 283-2051
With a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company 300 Concord Plaza Drive San Antonio, Texas 78216
 
Attn: General Counsel Fax: (210) 745-4494
If to Seller:
Shell Oil Products One Shell Plaza 910 Louisiana Houston, Texas 77002 Attn: Vice President  Portfolio Americas Fax: (713) 241-9800
With a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Shell Oil Products One Shell Plaza 910 Louisiana Houston, Texas 77002 Attn: General Counsel Fax: (713) 241-1444
     Any Party may change the address to which such communications are to be directed to it by giving written notice to the other in the manner above.
      This Agreement and the Related Agreements (unless expressly provided otherwise therein) and the obligations of the Parties hereunder and thereunder shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive and procedural laws of the State of Texas, without regard to rules on choice of law.
17.02
.
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction
     Subject to and without limiting the provisions of , any action to enforce the terms hereof or the Related Agreements (unless expressly provided otherwise therein) may be properly venued in, and shall be brought in, the federal or state courts located in Houston, Texas. Each Party agrees that it shall irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of such courts for purposes of actions to enforce the terms of this Agreement and the Related Agreements (unless expressly provided otherwise therein) and to service of process by certified mail, delivered to the applicable Party at the address indicated herein. Each Party hereby irrevocably waives (on it own behalf and on behalf of its other Indemnified Parties), to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, any objection to personal jurisdiction, whether on grounds of venue, residence or domicile. In addition, each Party hereby irrevocably waives (on it own behalf and on behalf of its other Indemnified Parties), to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any proceedings relating to this Agreement or the Related Agreements (unless expressly provided otherwise therein).
ARTICLE XVI
      Buyer and Seller agree that, from the date hereof through and including the Closing Date, no public release or announcement concerning the Contemplated Transactions shall be issued or made by any Party without the prior consent of each other Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), except as such release or announcement may be required by Applicable Law, prior contractual obligations or the rules or regulations of any securities exchange,whether in the United States or elsewhere, (or upon advice of counsel such release or announcement is appropriate or desirable under or in light of such contractual obligations, laws and regulations), in which case the Party making the release or announcement shall allow each other Party reasonable time to
17.03
Publicity.
 
comment on such release or announcement in advance of such issuance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Buyer and Seller shall cooperate to prepare a joint press release to be issued on the Closing Date and, upon the request of either Buyer or Seller, at the time of the signing of this Agreement. Buyer and Seller agree to keep the terms of this Agreement confidential, except to the extent required by Applicable Law or prior contractual obligation or for financial reporting purposes and except that the Parties may disclose such terms to their respective Affiliates, counsel, auditors, accountants, agents, advisors and other representatives as necessary in connection with the ordinary conduct of their respective businesses (so long as such Persons agree to keep the terms of this Agreement confidential).
      This Agreement, the Schedules and Exhibits and the agreements referred to herein or executed simultaneously herewith, set forth the entire agreement and under standing of the Parties in respect to the Contemplated Transactions and supersede all prior agreements,arrangements and undertakings, whether written or oral, relating to the subject matter hereof (including the Confidentiality Agreement which shall not continue in effect). Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, no conditions, usage of trade, course of dealing or performance, understanding or agreement purporting to modify, vary, explain or supplement the terms or conditions of this Agreement will be binding unless hereafter made in writing and signed by the Party to be bound, and no modification will be effected by the acknowledgment or acceptance of documents containing terms or conditions at variance with or in addition to those set forth in this Agreement, except as otherwise specifically agreed to by the Parties in writing.
17.04
Entire Agreement.
      This Agreement and the Related Agreements (excluding the Commercial Agreements which shall be governed as provided therein) and, except as otherwise provided in with respect to the Intellectual Property, any rights and obligations hereunder or thereunder shall not be assignable or transferable by Buyer or Seller without the prior written consent of the other Party (provided that Seller's prior written consent shall not be required in the event Buyer transfers its entire rights and obligations hereunder to its parent company or a wholly owned Subsidiary of Buyer, as long as Buyer first fully guarantees such parent company's or Subsidiary's performance of all of Buyer's obligations under this Agreement and under all of the agreements that are exhibits hereto) and any purported assignment without such consent shall be void and without effect. Without limiting the generality of the preceding, the indemnification Obligations of Seller and Buyer pursuant to this Agreement and the Related Agreements (excluding the Commercial Agreements) shall not be transferable or assignable in whole or in part without such Party's prior written consent and any purported or attempted transfer or assignment by an Indemnified Party shall be null and void without the prior written consent of the Indemnifying Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller may assign or transfer any or all of its rights hereunder to any qualified intermediary to complete a 1031 Exchange as contemplated in this Agreement.
17.05
Assignment.
ARTICLE IX
      This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded or canceled, and any of the terms, covenants, representations, warranties or conditions hereof may be waived, only by a written instrument executed by the Parties, or, in the case of a waiver, by or on be half of the Party waiving compliance. The failure of any Party at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect the right at a later time to enforce the same. No waiver by any Party of any condition, or of any breach of any term, covenant, representation or warranty contained in this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be or construed as a further or continuing waiver of any such condition or breach or a waiver of any other condition or of any breach of any other term, covenant representation or warranty.
17.06
Amendment and Waiver.
      Whether or not the Contemplated Transactions are consummated, and except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, all costs and expenses incurred in connection
17.07
Expenses.
 
with this Agreement and the Contemplated Transactions, including legal, due diligence, accounting and investment banking fees and expenses, shall be paid by the Party incurring such costs or expenses.
      Matters listed once on the Schedules shall be deemed disclosed with reference to all sections of the Schedules (including any disclosures made in amendments made pursuant to to the extent the applicability of such information is readily apparent. The inclusion of information in the Schedules shall not be construed as an admission that such information is material to the Purchased Assets, the Assumed Liabilities or Seller. In addition, matters reflected in the Schedules are not necessarily limited to matters required by this Agreement to be reflected in such Schedules. Such additional matters are set forth for informational purposes only and do not necessarily include other matters of a similar nature.
17.08
Schedules.
Section 6.03)
      Buyer and Seller acknowledge that each of them has been represented by counsel in connection with this Agreement and the Contemplated Transactions. Accordingly, any rule of law or any legal decision that would require interpretation of any claimed ambiguities in this Agreement against the Party that drafted it has no application and is expressly waived.
17.09
Representation By Counsel.
      Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be valid and effective under Applicable Law, but if any provision of this Agreement or the application of any such provision to any Person or circumstance shall be held invalid,illegal or unenforceable in any respect by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof.
17.10
Severability.
      Buyer hereby waives compliance by Seller with the provisions of any so-called bulk transfer laws of any jurisdiction in connection with the purchase and sale of the Purchased Assets. Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer harmless (subject to ) from any Losses Buyer may incur due to failure to so comply in accordance with
17.11
Bulk Transfer Laws.
ARTICLE XIIJ
Section 13.02(iv).
      Except as provided with respect to indemnification for Indemnified Parties as set forth in and elsewhere in this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall confer any rights upon any Person other than the Parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns.
17.12
No
Third Party Beneficiaries.
ARTICLE XIII
      Subject to the provisions hereof restricting assignment, this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
17.13
Binding Effect.
     
17.14
Confidentiality.
          (a) Each of Seller and Buyer (on behalf of themselves and each of their respective Affiliates) acknowledges that the information and material, in whatever form, including this Agreement and the Related Agreements (collectively, the disclosed or made available to it by, and relating to, the other (and its Affiliates) prior to the Effective Time is confidential. Each of Seller and Buyer (on behalf of themselves and each of their respective Affiliates) further agrees that it shall use commercially reasonable efforts not to make or permit disclosure of the Confidential Information to any Person, other than their Affiliates and their respective stockholders, members or owners, officers, employees, advisers and representatives to whom such disclosure is necessary or convenient for the completion of the Contemplated Transactions, and except in an arbitration proceeding as described in or as may be required by Applicable Law or a court of competent jurisdiction. Each of Seller and Buyer (and their respective Affiliates) shall appropriately notify each officer, employee, adviser and representative to whom any such disclosure is made, that such disclosure is
"Confidential Information")
ARTICLE XVI
 
made in confidence and shall be kept in confidence and not to be used in any capacity except for the operations of the Refinery by Buyer.
          (b) Each of Seller and Buyer (and their respective Affiliates) agrees to use diligent efforts in accordance with customary and reasonable commercial practice, and at least with the same degree of skill and care that it would manifest in protection of its own confidential information, to protect the Confidential Information.
          (c) Each of the Parties (on behalf of themselves and each of their respective Affiliate) agrees to notify the other Party promptly, in the event that it becomes aware of the unauthorized possession or use of the Confidential Information (or any part thereof) by any third Person, including any of its officers, employees, advisers or representatives. Each of Seller and Buyer (and their respective Affiliates) agrees to cooperate with the other in connection with the other's efforts to terminate or prevent such unauthorized possession or use of its Confidential Information. Each of Seller and Buyer (on behalf of themselves and each of their respective Affiliate) shall pay the other's reasonable out-of-pocket expenses in so cooperating in protecting its Confidential Information, unless the unauthorized possession or use of the Confidential Information resulted from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of the Party otherwise entitled to reimbursement of its expenses.
          (d) Each of Seller and Buyer (on behalf of themselves and each of their respective Affiliate) acknowledges that the other will suffer injury for which the other will not have an adequate remedy at law, in the event of a breach of the provisions of this and that the other shall be entitled to injunctive relief as is reasonably necessary to prevent or curtail such breach, whether actual or threatened; provided, that, in no event (including a willful breach of this Agreement by Seller or Buyer, respectively) shall Seller or Buyer (or their respective Affiliates) be prevented from exercising all of the rights granted to it hereunder.
Section 17.14,
          (e) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement,the obligations of each of Seller and Buyer (and their respective Affiliates) to maintain the confidentiality of the Confidential Information (each in such capacity a shall not apply to any portion of the Confidential Information that:
)
"Receiving Party"
          (i) is or becomes generally available to the public through no fault of the Receiving Party, including information in the public domain;
          (ii) the Receiving Party receives from a third party without any requirement to keep such information secret;
          (iii) the Receiving Party can prove was in its possession without any obligation of secrecy at the time of its disclosure; or
          (iv) the Receiving Party develops independently of and without reference to or use of the Confidential Information.
          (f) Seller acknowledges and agrees that, as of the Effective Time, nothing herein shall restrict the use by Buyer and its Affiliates of the Refinery Records, the same becoming property of Buyer as a consequence of the Closing. Except for Refinery Records, Buyer shall not use the Confidential Information prior to the Closing for any other purpose other than the evaluation of the Contemplated Transactions.
 
          (g) In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this and the confidentiality provisions of any Related Agreement, the provisions of the Related Agreement shall control with respect to any matters addressed by such Related Agreement.
Section 17.14
          (h) At the request of Seller, Buyer shall within twenty (20) days after receiving such request return to Seller all written Confidential Information which is not a Refinery Record, including all photocopies of the same.
          (i) The provisions of this shall remain in force for a period of five (5) years from the later of the date hereof or the Closing Date. The terms of this shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
Section 17.14
Section 17.14
          (j) To the extent the Confidentiality Agreement conflicts with the terms of this Agreement, the Confidentiality Agreement is hereby modified so that it is consistent with this Agreement. The Confidentiality Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force or effect as of the date hereof.
          (k) If the Closing occurs, Seller agrees to treat information it possesses concerning the historical operation of the Refinery as Confidential Information.
          (1) Seller and Buyer do not intend for any obligations of confidentiality contained herein to limit disclosure of the transaction in any way that would cause it to be treated as a "confidential transaction" under Treasury Regulation 1.601 l-4(b)(3).
      This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in one or more counterparts (including by means of faxed signature pages), all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by each of the Parties and delivered to the other Party.
17.15
Counterparts.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized officers or representatives of Buyer and Seller as of the day and year first above written.

 
Exhibit 2.2
Execution Copy
 
 
 
ANNEXES AND SCHEDULES APPLICABLE TO ALL PREMISES
 
 
 
     This Asset Purchase and Sale Agreement ("") dated as of the 29th day of January, 2007 (the , is by and between , d/b/a Shell Oil Products US, a Delaware limited liability company and , a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
"Execution Date")
EQUILON ENTERPRISES LLC
("
Seller
"),
TESORO REFINING AND MARKETING COMPANY
Buyer
     contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement the Parties have entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the ") pursuant to which Seller will sell to Buyer, and Buyer will purchase from Seller, the crude oil refinery complex owned by Seller commonly known as the Los Angeles Refinery, located in the cities of Los Angeles, California and Wilmington, California (the "
WHEREAS,
"
Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement
Refinery
");
     Seller is the owner of various fee properties, leasehold interests and certain improvements and equipment and is a party to certain contracts that Seller desires to sell or assign, and in connection with the acquisition of the Refinery Buyer desires to purchase or take an assignment thereof, all relating to two hundred fifty five (255) retail service stations in California that are currently branded with the Brand (as defined herein);
WHEREAS,
     with respect to such two hundred fifty five (255) retail service stations:
WHEREAS,
     1. Seller owns either the fee or leasehold interest in one hundred thirty two (132) of the retail service stations, as indicated in the site list attached as (the and Seller operates such retail service stations pursuant to seven (7) separate MSO Agreements (the ");
Annex A
""),
Site List
"Contract Operator Premises
     2. Seller owns the fee or leasehold interest in sixty four (64) of the retail service stations, as indicated in the Site List, where Seller currently leases such retail service station to independent dealers (the which, together with the Contract Operator Premises, are referred to as the
"
RORO Premises
"
"Purchased Premises
");
     3. Seller supplies the fifty nine (59) remaining retail service stations with retail motor fuel pursuant to retail fuel supply agreements, as indicated in the Site List, but Seller does not otherwise own a property interest in such retail service stations and
("
Open Dealer Premises
");
     Buyer desires to (a) purchase the fee and leasehold interests, as applicable, relating to the Purchased Premises, (b) take an assignment of the MSO Agreements relating to the Contract Operator Premises, (c) take an assignment of certain retail fuel supply agreements relating to the RORO Premises and Open Dealer Premises (including the leasing agreements related to the RORO Premises) and other contracts, (d) purchase certain personal property assets at the Purchased Premises all as more fully set forth herein and (e) take an assignment of certain Wholesale Marketer Agreements of Seller; and
WHEREAS,
     concurrently with the execution hereof, the Parties have entered into a Retail Environmental Agreement for purposes of agreeing on certain environmental-related matters applicable during the periods prior to and after the Effective Time (the ");
WHEREAS,
"Environmental Agreement
     for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, including, but not limited to, execution by the Parties of the Refiner-Supplier
NOW, THEREFORE,
 
Development Agreement (as defined herein), and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Seller and Buyer agree as follows:
     1.1 Unless defined in this Agreement or the context shall otherwise require, terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in hereto, and unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, all rules as to usage and procedural conventions set forth in hereto shall govern this Agreement.
Definitions and Procedures.
Schedule A
Schedule A
     2.1 Subject to any Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises becoming a Dropped Premises as described in () below or a ROFR Premises as described in (and subject to the other terms and conditions herein, at the Effective Time, Seller shall sell, transfer, convey, assign and deliver to Buyer, and Buyer shall purchase, acquire, accept and agree to perform, in each case arising from and after the Effective Time, all of Seller's right, title and interest in and obligations to and under the following:
.
Purchase and Sale of the Assets
Section 2.3
Dropped Premises
Section 4.5
Purchased Premises Subject to Right of First Refusal or Bona Fide Offer to Purchase),
     (a) the fee simple interest in the Purchased Premises set forth on together with all easements and rights appurtenant thereto and all buildings and improvements located thereon (the subject, however, to modification of in accordance with the procedures specified in () or );
Schedule 2.1 (a),
),
"Fee Premises"
Schedule 2.1 (a)
Section 2.3
Dropped Premises
Section 4.5
(Purchased Premises Subject to Right of First Refusal or Bona Fide Offer to Purchase
     (b) the leasehold interest in the Purchased Premises set forth on (the together with all rights in and obligations under each lease agreement described on (the subject, however, to modification of and in accordance with the procedures specified in );
Schedule 2.1(b)(i)
"Leased Premises"),
Schedule 2.1(b)(ii)
"Assumed Leases"),
Schedules 2.1(b)(i)
2.1(b)(ii)
Section 2.3
(Dropped Premises
     (c) all equipment, fixtures and personal property owned by Seller, located on the Purchased Premises and not owned by any Contract Operator, Dealer or Third Party, including the equipment, fixtures and personal property described in general categories on (the ), subject, however, to modification of in accordance with the procedures specified in () or ();
Schedule 2.1(c)
"Equipment
"
Schedule 2.1(c)
Section 2.3
Dropped Premises
Section 4.5
Purchased Premises Subject to Right of First Refusal or Bona Fide Offer to Purchase
     (d) all Permits for the Contract Operator Premises, to the extent held and assignable by Seller and necessary for the operation of the Contract Operator Premises, including the Permits listed on (the
Schedule 2.1(d)
"Assigned Permits");
     (e) the MSO Agreements described on , subject to the provisions of
Schedule 2.1(e)
Section 4.2(b)(iii);
     (f) the wholesale marketer agreements described on (the
Schedule 2.1(f)
"");
Wholesale Marketer Agreements
 
     (g) to the extent assignable by Seller, all (A) contracts, agreements, leases and arrangements relating to personal property or equipment located on the Purchased Premises, (B) retail sales area and repair facility leases operated at the Purchased Premises, and (C) non-petroleum leases and contracts, agreements, leases and arrangements related to quick-serve restaurants at any of the Purchased Premises (the ), subject to the provisions of ;
"
"
Assumed Contracts
Section 4.2(b)(iii)
     (h) the Retail Sales Agreements, the Retail Facility Lease Agreements, the Incentive Agreements and the Security Agreements described on (collectively, the );
Schedule 2.1(h)
"Dealer Instruments"
     (i) all Refined Petroleum Products Inventory at the Contract Operator Premises as of the Conversion Date;
     (j) any and all security or other deposits and unamortized balances held by Seller under any Assumed Contract; and
     (k) to the extent available, the Asset Records.
     The items listed in  , the Excluded Assets, being collectively referred to herein as the
Section 2.1 (a)
(k)
excluding
"
Assets
."
      Notwithstanding and for the avoidance of doubt, Seller shall not sell to Buyer and Buyer shall not purchase from Seller, or assume any of Seller's rights under, any of the following pursuant to this Agreement:
2.2
Excluded Assets.
Section 2.1
(Purchase and Sale of the Assets),
     (a) any asset or agreement set forth on
Schedule 2.2(a);
     (b) any Dropped Premises or ROFR Premises, as applicable, and the Assets related thereto;
     (c) the UST System(s) identified on Schedules 3.01 (a)(i) and 3.01(a)(ii) to the Environmental Agreement;
     (d) any Permit that is not held or assignable by Seller or necessary for the operation of the Purchased Premises, including, without limitation, any Permit regarding the sale or ownership of alcoholic beverages and any Permit regarding the sale of lottery tickets or presence of gaming equipment;
     (e) any asset located at a Purchased Premises or an Open Dealer Premises that is owned by a Contract Operator, Dealer or any other Third Party;
     (f) any Non-Petroleum Products Inventory owned by a Contract Operator, Dealer or any other Third Party;
     (g) any groundwater monitoring wells or other environmental equipment at the Purchased Premises on the Closing Date, or installed after the Closing Date by Seller pursuant to Section 6.05 of the Environmental Agreement;
 
     (h) any automatic teller machines, back office computer equipment and telecommunication equipment at the Purchased Premises, including satellite communications equipment;
     (i) any software programs that track sales information at the Purchased Premises or that monitor USTs and Refined Petroleum Products Inventory; and
     (j) any right, title or interest in any logo, trade name, trademark, service mark, house mark, domain name, web site or company name to the extent it contains or consists of the word "Shell", "SOPUS", "Select", "Shell Rapid Lube", "Pennzoil" or "Quaker State" or the "Shell", "SOPUS", "Select", "Shell Rapid Lube", "Pennzoil" or "Quaker State" emblem or any other emblem, logo or other mark in which "Shell", "SOPUS", "Select", "Pennzoil" or "Quaker State" or any of them appears in translational or transliteral form or any third party logo, trade name, trademark, service mark, house mark, domain name, web site or company name used in connection with the Purchased Premises (rights, if any, to use the "Shell" marks/names being granted pursuant to, and subject to the conditions of the Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement).
     The items listed in being collectively referred to herein as the Title to the Excluded Assets is not being transferred to Buyer pursuant to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated herein.
Section 2.2(a)-(j)
"".
Excluded Assets
     2.3
Dropped Premises.
     (a) Pursuant to the procedures set forth in this , a Party may elect to drop one or more of the Purchased Premises or assignment of Dealer Instruments as it relates to an Open Dealer Premises (each then referred to as a ) as provided below:
Section 2.3
"
Dropped Premises
"
     (i) If (i) Seller is unable, within the time provided for in (), to cure any Material Title Objections made by Buyer under the terms of () to the satisfaction of Buyer, (ii) Seller and Buyer are unable to reach agreement in respect of any Material Title Objections made by Buyer under the terms of and (iii) Buyer does not waive any uncured Material Title Objection, Buyer may drop the applicable Purchased Premises from this Agreement;
Section 4.4
Title Objections
Section 4.4
Title Objections
Section 4.4
(Title Objections)
     (ii) If after the Execution Date and prior to the Closing Date, a public taking of an entire Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises occurs, or a partial taking occurs that materially impairs the continued operation of such Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises as a retail motor fuel facility, Buyer may drop the applicable Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises from this Agreement upon written notice to Seller and, if with respect to a Purchased Premises, the Title Company;
     (iii) If based on the UST System review described in Section 3.01(c)(ii) of the Environmental Agreement, Seller determines that removal of a UST System at a Purchased Premises is appropriate, Buyer may drop the applicable Purchased Premises from this Agreement upon written notice to Seller and the Title Company;
     (iv) In the event of substantial loss or damage to any Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises after the Execution Date and prior to the Closing Date by fire or other casualty that materially impairs the continued operation of such Purchased Premises
 
as a retail motor fuel facility and the Parties have failed to agree on an appropriate price reduction pursuant to (), Buyer may drop the applicable Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises from this Agreement upon written notice to Seller and, if with respect to a Purchased Premises, the Title Company;
Section 4.7
Casualty Loss
     (v) In the event that Seller is unable to obtain any Seller Required Consent (other than a consent related to an exercise of a right of purchase or right of first refusal which is governed by () and other than a Seller Required Consent related to the assignment of an MSO Agreement) with respect to any particular Purchased Premises, either Party may drop such Purchased Premises from this Agreement upon written notice to the other Party and the Title Company; , that Seller's right to drop a Purchased Premises pursuant to this subparagraph for failure to obtain a Seller Required Consent shall be conditioned on Seller having taken such actions to obtain such Seller Required Consent as are commercially reasonable and necessary under the circumstances (it being understood that such actions by Seller shall not include any requirement of Seller to expend money, commence any litigation or offer or grant any accommodation (financial or otherwise) to any Third Party);
Section 4.5
Purchased Premises Subject to Right of First Refusal or Bona Fide Offer to Purchase
provided
however,
(v)
     (vi) In the event that a particular Purchased Premises is the subject of any pending or threatened litigation, either Party may drop such Purchased Premises from this Agreement upon written notice to the other Party and the Title Company; and
     (vii) In the event that Seller has notified a Dealer that such Dealer is in payment default under its respective Dealer Instruments, such payment default is in an amount in excess of $25,000, and such payment default remains uncured for a period of more than thirty (30) days after the date on which Seller notifies such Dealer of the payment default, Buyer may drop the applicable Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises from this Agreement upon written notice to Seller and, if with respect to a Purchased Premises, the Title Company.
Purchased Premises may not be dropped pursuant to subparagraphs , or  above after the seventieth (70th) day following the Execution Date.
(i)
(iii)
(v)
     (b) If a Party elects to drop any Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises as provided above, then subject to subparagraph below, (i) Seller shall substitute the Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises that become Dropped Premises with a replacement asset or assets with equivalent historical annual volume as the Dropped Premises, (ii) the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to account for the difference (positive or negative, if any) between the value attributable to the Dropped Premises and the value attributable to the Replacement Asset(s) substituted in accordance with this , and (iii) through and the Site List (as applicable) shall be updated to reflect the removal of the Dropped Premises from the Assets and the addition of the Replacement Asset(s), together with any personal property and equipment associated therewith, to the Assets.
(c)
()
"Replacement Asset(s)"
Section 2.3
Schedules 2.1 (a)
2.1(c),
Schedule 2.1(h)
     (c) Seller shall have no further obligation to substitute Dropped Premises with Replacement Asset(s) pursuant to subparagraph above from and after such time as the aggregate historical annual volume of all Replacement Assets substituted pursuant to subparagraph  equals or exceeds 57,600,000 gallons per year (the
(b)
(b)
"Drop Threshold").
 
     (i) After such time as the Drop Threshold has been reached, in the event that a Party elects to drop any Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises as provided above, (A) the Purchase Price will be reduced by an amount that is mutually agreed by the Parties, (B) the "Minimum Annual Gallons" (as defined in the Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement) shall be reduced by the number of gallons attributable to the Dropped Premises set forth in the Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement, (C) through and the Site List (as applicable) shall be updated to reflect the removal of the Dropped Premises from the Assets, and (D) other than as provided in clauses (A) through (C) of this subparagraph Buyer shall not be entitled to any other remedy, either at law or in equity, including, without limitation, damages of any nature whatsoever or specific performance with respect to the Dropped Premises or to substitution of the Dropped Premises, all of which Buyer hereby irrevocably waives.
Schedules 2.1 (a)
2.1(c), Schedule 2.1(h)
(c)(i),
     (ii) At any time after the Drop Threshold has been reached, Buyer may revoke its previous election to make a Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises a Dropped Premises and agree that such Dropped Premises shall be included as an Asset (in such case, a ), in which case (A) through and the Site List (as applicable) shall be updated to reflect the addition of such Reinstated Premises as an Asset and (B) the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to account for both the increase in value attributable to such Reinstated Premises as well as the decrease in value attributable to such Reinstated Premises when taking into consideration the particular reason the Reinstated Premises was originally dropped pursuant to subparagraphs through above.
"
Reinstated Premises
"
Schedules 2.1 (a)
2.1(c),
Schedule 2.1(h)
(a)(i)
(a)(vii)
     (d) In the event that the Parties are unable to mutually agree upon a valuation of a Dropped Premises or Replacement Asset(s) for purposes of this then the Parties shall proceed to resolve such disagreement in accordance with the procedures described in that if the Parties are unable to resolve such disagreement in accordance with the procedures described in then, prior to referring the matter to the dispute resolution procedures established in (), the Parties shall refer the matter to one or more appraisers for resolution; that if there are any disagreements with respect to valuation pending on the Closing Date then (i) no adjustment to the Purchase Price shall be made for purposes of Closing, (ii) the Parties shall proceed with the Closing and (iii) following the Closing the Parties shall continue to work together to reach an agreement on any outstanding valuation matters for sixty (60) days after the Closing Date. If, upon the expiration of such 60-day period the Parties have been unable to mutually agree on the valuation of any Dropped Premises, Replacement Asset(s) or the amount of any corresponding adjustments to the Purchase Price, the Parties shall refer the matter to the dispute resolution procedures established in ().
Section 2.3,
Section 4.2(c);
provided
Section 4.2(c)
Section 13.3
Dispute Resolution
provided,
further,
Section 13.3
Dispute Resolution
     2.4 Buyer acknowledges that Schedules 3.01(a)(i) and 3.01(a)(ii) of the Environmental Agreement identify certain UST Systems located at Purchased Premises that will be removed by Seller prior to the Effective Time or after the Effective Time, as the case may be, and that no adjustment to the Purchase Price will occur as a result of such removal. Buyer acknowledges that UST Systems may be added to or removed from Schedules 3.01 (a)(i) and 3.01(a)(ii) of the Environmental Agreement and adjustments will be made, as a result of such additions and deletions, to the Purchase Price as provided in Article III of the Environmental Agreement.
Removed UST Systems.
 
     2.5 As an inducement to each of Seller and Buyer to enter into this Agreement, at Closing Seller and Buyer shall enter into a Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement in the form of (the ).
Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement.
Exhibit E
"
Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement
"
     3.1 The Parties hereby agree that the aggregate purchase price payable by Buyer for the Assets other than the Refined Petroleum Products Inventory (the ) is included within the purchase price payable by Buyer under the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement. The Parties further agree that the Purchase Price shall be subject to adjustment (a) as provided in (), (b) as provided in (), (c) as provided in () and (d) as provided in the Environmental Agreement with respect to USTs to be removed prior to or after the Effective Time. In addition, Buyer shall be responsible for the payment of Taxes, costs and such other fees, as provided in (), () and () of this Agreement.
Purchase Price for Assets Other than Inventory.
"
Purchase Price
"
Section 2.3
Dropped Premises
Section 4.5
Purchased Premises Subject to Right of First Refusal or Bona Fide Offer to Purchase
Section 4.7
Casualty Loss
Section 5.4
Costs, Fees and Taxes Related to Closing
Section 9.2
Taxes
Section 9.3
Expenses
     3.2 At a mutually agreed time on the Conversion Date for each Contract Operator Premises, Seller shall conduct an inventory, using the electronic tank gauging equipment currently installed at each Contract Operator Premises, of the Refined Petroleum Products Inventory present at each of the Contract Operator Premises. After the electronic inventory is taken, Seller shall prepare an inventory statement for each of the Contract Operator Premises setting forth the quantities of each product grade of the Refined Petroleum Products Inventory on the applicable Conversion Date. The inventory statement shall also reflect the corresponding value for each product grade of Refined Petroleum Products Inventory, which shall be calculated based on the following values as of the close of the Business Day prior to the Conversion Date (such statement, an ):
Refined Petroleum Products Inventory Count
.
"
Inventory Statement
"
     (a)
Gasoline to be calculated as follows:
Premium: (V-Power): BG PUL 90 CARBOB for ETOH 5.7% Vol.: OPIS Los Angeles SpotPL CARBOB-P High, times 47.15%, plus OPIS Los Angeles Spot PL CARBOB-P Low, times 47.15%, plus OPIS Los Angeles Spot Ethanol, Mid times 5.7%.
Regular: BG RUL 85.5 CARBOB for ETOH 5.7% Vol.: OPIS Los Angeles Spot PL CARBOB-R High, times 47.15%; plus OPIS Los Angeles Spot PL CARBOB-R Low times 47.15%; plus OPIS Los Angeles Spot Ethanol, Mid times 5.7%.
Mid Grade: Premium (as calculated above) times 50%, plus Regular times 50%.
In addition to the base gasoline, the following elements will be added to each of above figures to arrive at a total figure per gallon:
Transportation, Terminal & Delivery: 5.25 cents per gallon.
Gasoline Fee: 1.725 cents per gallon.
 
     (b)
Diesel to be calculated as follows:
Diesel Distillate: OPIS Los Angeles Spot PL CARB No. 2 High, times 50%, plus OPIS Los Angeles Spot PL CARB No. 2 Low, times 50%.
In addition to the base diesel, the following elements will be added to arrive at a total figure per gallon:
Transportation, Terminal & Delivery: 5.25 cents per gallon.
Diesel Fee: .75 cents per gallon.
On the Conversion Date, once the Inventory Statements have been reviewed and accepted by Seller and Buyer, the Inventory Statements for each Contract Operator Premises shall be executed by Buyer and Seller.
     3.3 Payment for the value of the Refined Petroleum Products Inventory as determined pursuant to () shall be paid by Buyer within five (5) days of Buyer's receipt of the Inventory Statement in U.S. Dollars by wire transfer to the account(s) designated in writing by Seller.
Inventory Payment.
Section 3.2
Refined Petroleum Products Inventory Count
     3.4 Either Party may elect to structure the conveyance, transfer or assignment of all or an applicable portion of the Assets as a tax-free exchange pursuant to Section 1031 of the Code (a ), that (a) such Party gives notice of such election to the other Party at least fifteen (15) days prior to the Closing Date, (b) Buyer shall not be required to take title to any other property and (c) such structure does not have any adverse effect on the other Party. If such an exchange is elected by such Party (the ), the Parties will use commercially reasonable efforts to execute all necessary 1031 Exchange documents (, that any costs and expenses incurred shall be borne by the Electing Party), that shall be in a form mutually acceptable to the Parties.
Deferred Like-Kind Exchange
.
""
1031 Exchange
provided
"
Electing Party
"
provided
     4.1 Until the Closing Date, Buyer may, personally or through agents, employees, appraisers, contractors or subcontractors, enter the Purchased Premises, at Buyer's sole cost and expense and at reasonable times during normal business hours, and inspect the Purchased Premises and the equipment and personal property located thereon and Seller's relevant books and records relating thereto, except for such books and records which may not be provided by Seller to Buyer in accordance with applicable Law or which contain competitive information of Seller or its Affiliates. Buyer shall coordinate all such inspections with Seller to minimize disruption of business at the Purchased Premises. Buyer's right of entry and inspection is limited to visual inspection only (which may include inspection of the physical condition and characteristics of the Purchased Premises and the taking of photographs) and Buyer shall not perform intrusive or invasive tests or inspections of any kind. Buyer assumes all risks involved in entering and inspecting the Purchased Premises and Open Dealer Premises.
Right of Entry and Inspection.
Seller will reasonably cooperate with Buyer to coordinate (i) Buyer's inspection of the Open Dealer Premises and (ii) communications between Buyer and lessors, lessees, Contract Operators, Dealers, employees and subcontractors;
provided
that Buyer shall not communicate with any lessor, lessee, Contract Operator, Dealer, employee or subcontractor during visits to any of the Purchased Premises, Open Dealer Premises or otherwise without first obtaining the express consent of Seller's Assigned Rep.
 
     4.2
Pre-Closing Transition and Dispute Resolution.
     (a) Seller agrees to reasonably cooperate with Buyer prior to Closing in order to facilitate the transition of the Assets to Buyer and allow Buyer to operate the Assets after Closing.
Transitional Matters.
     (b)
Contracts.
     (i) Promptly following the Execution Date, Seller shall solicit any Seller Required Consents required under any Assumed Contracts, Assumed Leases, MSO Agreements, Dealer Instruments or Wholesale Marketer Agreements.
     (ii) To the extent that Buyer has not been provided with true and correct copies of all the Assumed Contracts, Assumed Leases, MSO Agreements, Dealer Instruments and Wholesale Marketer Agreements prior to the Execution Date, Seller shall promptly, but in any event within thirty (30) days following the Execution Date, provide or make available true and correct copies of such contracts to Buyer. Additionally, no later than forty five (45) days following the Execution Date, Seller shall have made available to Buyer the information set forth on Notwithstanding the provision of any documents or information pursuant to this Section, Buyer hereby acknowledges that it is relying on its own review and investigation of the documents and information made available by Seller and that Seller is making no representations or warranties other than the representations and warranties of Seller in
Schedule 4.2(b).
ARTICLE 7.
     (iii) Buyer shall have a period of thirty (30) days following delivery of copies of the Assumed Contracts and MSO Agreements pursuant to subparagraph to request that Seller terminate, prior to Closing, any Assumed Contract or MSO Agreement that may be terminated by Seller without any cost, termination fee or similar expense to Seller. Seller shall have no obligation to terminate an Assumed Contract or MSO Agreement unless Seller is able to terminate such Assumed Contract or MSO Agreement without any cost, termination fee or similar expense to Seller, in which case Seller shall either (A) terminate such Assumed Contract or MSO Agreement prior to or effective as of the Closing Date or (B) in the event such Assumed Contract or MSO Agreement is not able to be terminated prior to or effective as of the Closing Date due to a pre-termination notice or similar provision, then Seller shall initiate termination proceedings with respect to such Assumed Contract or MSO Agreement at or prior to Closing, and such Assumed Contract or MSO Agreement shall constitute an Asset assigned to Buyer at Closing. For the avoidance of doubt, any Assumed Contract or MSO Agreement that Seller is unable to terminate prior to or effective as of the Closing Date in accordance with this subparagraph shall be assumed by Buyer at the Effective Time.
(b)(ii)
(b)(iii)
     (c) During the period prior to Closing, prior to referring any dispute, disagreement or matter in controversy to the dispute resolution procedures established in hereof the Parties shall attempt to resolve such dispute, disagreement or matter in controversy in accordance with the procedures established in this subparagraph In the event any dispute, disagreement or matter in controversy arises between the Parties, either Party may send to the other Party a written notice briefly summarizing the nature of the matter and requesting that the Parties resolve such matter pursuant to this subparagraph Within three (3) days of receipt of such notice, the other Party shall cause its Assigned Rep to meet with the Assigned Rep of the requesting Party and attempt in good faith to resolve such dispute, disagreement or matter in controversy. If the Parties' Assigned Reps are unable, within five (5)
Disputes.
Section 13.3
(Dispute Resolution)
(c).
(c).
 
days of their initial meeting, to resolve such dispute, disagreement or matter in controversy to the reasonable satisfaction of the Parties, then either Party may notify the other Party that it desires that the matter be referred to management-level personnel of the Parties for further discussion and resolution. Following delivery of any such notice, each Party shall cause a Vice President or other officer with a similar level of responsibility and decision-making authority (a to meet with the other Party's Management-Level Rep to further discuss and attempt in good faith to resolve such dispute, disagreement or matter in controversy. For purposes of the preceding sentence, it is agreed that Buyer will designate Everett Lewis as its Management-Level Rep and Seller will designate David A. Sexton as its Management-Level Rep. If the Parties' Management-Level Reps are unable, within five (5) days of their initial meeting, to resolve such dispute, disagreement or matter in controversy to the reasonable satisfaction of the Parties, then either Party may refer the matter to the dispute resolution procedures established in hereof.
"Management-Level Rep")
Section 13.3
(Dispute Resolution)
     (d) Seller and Buyer agree to the provisions concerning employees as set forth in
Employee Matters.
Schedule 4.2(d).
     4.3 On or prior to thirty (30) days after Buyer and Seller mutually select a nationally recognized title company (the Seller shall deliver to Buyer a preliminary title report and form of Title Commitment for each of the Purchased Premises, together with true, correct and legible copies of all instruments referred to in the title reports as conditions or exceptions to title by the Title Company. Buyer and Seller shall each pay fifty percent (50%) of the costs of the premiums for the CLTA Owner's Policies of Title Insurance or Leasehold Policies of Title Insurance on the Purchased Premises. In the event that Buyer elects to purchase extended coverage/owner's title policies (ALTA), the incremental cost of such coverage/policies and any required surveys shall be paid solely by Buyer. Additionally, Buyer shall be solely responsible for the purchase of any lenders policies of title insurance. The legal description of a Fee Premises that is attached to the Grant Deed for such Fee Premises shall be the same as the legal description on the grant deed that was used when Seller acquired such Fee Premises. Likewise, the legal description of a Leased Premises that is set forth in the Assignment of Lease for such Leased Premises shall be the same as the legal description reflected in the underlying Assumed Lease.
Title Commitments/Title Policies.
"Title
),
Company"
     4.4Within thirty (30) days following receipt of the preliminary title reports referred to in Buyer shall (a) review the form of Title Commitment and any related correspondence or information provided by Seller to the Title Company for each of the Purchased Premises and (b) give written notice to Seller of any Material Title Objections which Buyer or their lender may have to title. Material Title Objections shall not include the encumbrances set forth on Seller is not obligated to cure title defects, remove encumbrances or convey an estate greater than it owned on the Execution Date. Should a title examination disclose unpaid or possible unpaid franchise taxes due the State by Seller, such taxes shall not be considered a Material Title Objection, Seller furnishes Buyer or the Title Company a letter agreeing to satisfy any delinquency for such taxes. Within fifteen (15) days after receipt of Buyer's notice of Material Title Objections, Seller shall commence to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cure the Material Title Objections to the reasonable satisfaction of the Title Company or reach an agreement with Buyer as to the resolution of the Material Title Objections. If Seller is unable to cure a Material Title Objection and the Parties are unable or unwilling to reach agreement with respect to such Material Title Objection within five (5) days, Buyer may, at Buyer's option, either (a) waive such uncured Material Title Objection and proceed with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; or (b) if Buyer does not so waive such uncured Material Title Objection, then drop the applicable Purchased Premises from this Agreement pursuant to and consummate the purchase of the remaining Purchased Premises. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or any other provision of this Agreement to the
Title Objections
.
Section 4.3,
Schedule 4.4
("Permitted Encumbrances").
provided
Section 2.3
(Dropped Premises)
 
contrary, except in the case where Seller is contesting a Monetary Lien in good faith, in the event that any Purchased Premises is subject to Monetary Liens such Purchased Premises shall not be subject to the provisions of as a result of such Monetary Liens, so long as the Purchase Price is reduced by the value of such Monetary Liens which are not remedied by Seller prior to Closing (such evidence of payoff to be reasonably satisfactory to Buyer). If Seller is contesting a Monetary Lien in good faith then there shall be no Purchase Price reduction and such Purchased Premises shall be subject to the provisions of For purposes of this the term shall collectively refer to any of the following: (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument securing any financial obligation of any party other than Buyer; (b) any tax liens, abstracts of judgments, mechanics' liens or similar liens or encumbrances which require any monetary payment to remove or release; (c) any lien for delinquent taxes or assessments; and (d) any notices of default, foreclosure notices, or similar notices reflecting any action being taken to assert or foreclose upon any lien or encumbrance.
Section 2.3
(Dropped Premises)
Section 2.3
(Dropped Premises).
Section 4.4,
"Monetary Liens"
     4.5 If, between the Execution Date and the Closing, a Dealer notifies Seller that it has elected to exercise a right of purchase or right of first refusal with respect to the RORO Premises leased to such Dealer by Seller (each such RORO Premises with respect to which such a right is exercised is hereinafter referred to as a Seller shall promptly notify Buyer of such exercise. Upon any RORO Premises becoming ROFR Premises, (a) the Purchase Price will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount that the Dealer has agreed to pay Seller for the ROFR Premises or, if the purchase of the ROFR Premises has been consummated prior to the Closing Date, the amount actually paid by the Dealer for the ROFR Premises that the sales price offered to such Dealer by Seller shall be based upon the value of the ROFR Premises as determined pursuant to an appraisal obtained by Seller), and (b) the ROFR Premises and all personal property and equipment associated therewith will no longer be included as Assets for any purposes hereunder and through (c), and the Site List (as applicable) shall be updated accordingly. Except for the reduction in the Purchase Price described in the preceding sentence, Buyer is not entitled to any other remedy, either at law or in equity, including, without limitation, damages of any nature whatsoever and specific performance with respect to the ROFR Premises or to substitution of the ROFR Premises, all of which Buyer hereby irrevocably waives. Notwithstanding hereof, it is hereby agreed that to the extent any Purchased Premises become ROFR Premises this shall be the exclusive statement of the rights of Buyer in respect of such Purchased Premises.
Purchased Premises Subject to Right of First Refusal or Bona Fide Offer to
.
Purchase
"
ROFR Premises
),
"
(provided
Schedules 2.1 (a)
Schedule 2.1 (h)
Section 2.3
Section 4.5
     4.6 If, after the Execution Date and before the Closing Date, Seller is notified in writing by any Governmental Entity that a formal proceeding has been or will be instituted by such Governmental Entity for the public taking of all or any portion of a Purchased Premises or the impairment of access to, or other interference with any Purchased Premises, Seller shall provide Buyer prompt notice of such action. If the Purchased Premises which is the subject of the public taking is not dropped pursuant to then Seller shall assign to Buyer all of Seller's rights to compensation from such taking.
.
Condemnation
Section 2.3
(Dropped Premises),
     4.7 . If, after the Execution Date and before the Closing Date, there is a substantial loss or damage to any Purchased Premises by fire or other casualty which precludes the continued operation of such Purchased Premises as a retail motor fuel facility, Seller shall provide written notice to Buyer and within ten (10) days of such notice Seller and Buyer shall discuss an appropriate reduction to the Purchase Price. If the Parties cannot agree on an appropriate Purchase Price reduction, Buyer may drop such Purchased Premises pursuant to
Casualty Loss
Section 2.3
(Dropped Premises).
     4.8 Buyer agrees to execute an Access Agreement, the form of which is attached as which shall be recorded in the real property records together with the Grant Deed or
.
Access Agreement
Exhibit F,
 
Assignment of Lease, as applicable, to the Purchased Premises. The Access Agreement grants, on behalf of Buyer, its heirs, successors and assigns, permission to Seller, its employees, authorized agents and contractors, to enter the Purchased Premises (including any building and facilities located thereon), following notice to Buyer as may be provided by the Access Agreement, to conduct the activities described in Articles III and V of the Environmental Agreement and Sections 6.01 and 6.02 of the Environmental Agreement.
     4.9 The Parties acknowledge that they have not had an opportunity prior to the Execution Date to compile a data room or conduct full due diligence and that this together with , is intended to provide Buyer's sole and exclusive remedy in connection with any disclosure by Seller of additional matters after the Initial Schedules Update. Within thirty (30) days of the Execution Date (the ), Seller shall update the Schedules to this Agreement and the Schedules to the Environmental Agreement to reflect information not provided on such Schedules as of the Execution Date. Thereafter, Seller may notify Buyer of additions or changes to the Schedules to this Agreement or the Environmental Agreement (as applicable) solely required to reflect events occurring subsequent to, or facts discovered by Seller after, the Initial Schedules Update, so as to cause such Schedules to accurately reflect the information required to be disclosed thereon and Seller's representations and warranties contained herein (other than any which speak as to a particular date) to be true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date. Subject to the following sentence, notices given by Seller pursuant to this will be deemed to have amended the Schedules to this Agreement or the Environmental Agreement (as applicable), to have qualified the representations and warranties contained in , and to have corrected any misrepresentation or breach of warranty that otherwise might have existed hereunder by reason of the fact, circumstance, event or development (with the result that no misrepresentation or breach shall be deemed to have occurred), in each case to the extent of the disclosure contained in such notice, including for purposes of . If such additions or changes are reasonably estimated (as determined by the Parties acting in good faith) to result (individually or in the aggregate) in Losses to Buyer in excess of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000), the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to determine a reasonable adjustment to the Purchase Price to fully reflect such Losses estimated to be incurred by Buyer resulting from such matters; , , that in the event such Losses are reasonably estimated (as determined by the Parties acting in good faith) to exceed Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000), then either Party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to and if the Closing occurs Buyer shall have no right to make a Claim with respect to such matters under () or otherwise. For the avoidance of doubt, the Parties agree that to the extent this Agreement otherwise provides for a remedy in connection with a matter disclosed pursuant to this (including, but not limited to, the ability to drop Purchased Premises and related adjustments to the Purchase Price), then such matter shall not be deemed to result in a Loss to Buyer for purposes of the two preceding sentences.
Supplemental Disclosures.
Section 4.9,
Section 10.1(d)
"
Initial Schedules Update"
Section 4.9
ARTICLE 7
Section 6.1 (a)
provided
however
Section 10.1(d)
ARTICLE 11
Indemnification
Section 4.9
     4.10 During the period between the Execution Date and the Effective Time, Seller shall conduct the business of owning and operating the Assets in the ordinary course of business consistent with Seller's customary practices and shall use and maintain the Assets in substantially the same manner in which they have been used and maintained prior to the Execution Date, with a view toward maintaining the Assets and the business associated therewith in at least the same condition as enjoyed on the Execution Date. Seller shall not materially alter the Assets other than in the ordinary course of business or transfer or dispose of any improvements, equipment or property which comprises the Assets with the exception of items sold, transferred, disposed of or consumed in the ordinary course of business or otherwise with the consent of Buyer. Seller will not cause, without the express written consent of Buyer, any lien to attach to any of the Purchased Premises or any of the Assets at any time after the Execution Date that will remain in effect after Closing.
.
Operations Prior to Closing
 
     5.1 Unless this Agreement is earlier terminated pursuant to (), and subject to the conditions set forth in (), the Closing of the transactions contemplated hereby shall occur at the offices of Seller's counsel at 1301 McKinney, Suite 5100, Houston, Texas 77010, (a) on a Business Day that is five (5) Business Days after the expiration of the waiting period, or any extension thereof (without challenge), provided for in HSR, or (b) at such other time and place as may be mutually agreed to by the Parties (the "Closing Date").
Closing.
Section 10.1
Methods of Termination
ARTICLE 6
Conditions to Closing
     5.2 At Closing, Seller shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Title Company and the Buyer the following:
.
Closing Deliveries and Actions by Seller
     (a) a grant deed conveying to Buyer each of the Fee Premises, in the form attached as (the ), duly executed and acknowledged by Seller;
Exhibit A
"
Grant Deed
"
     (b) an assignment or assignments transferring each of the Assumed Leases to Buyer, in the form attached as (the ), duly executed and acknowledged by Seller;
Exhibit B
"
Assignment of Lease
"
     (c) an assignment or assignments conveying the Equipment, excluding the Refined Petroleum Products Inventory, to be transferred to Buyer, in the form attached as (the ), duly executed by Seller;
Exhibit C
"
Bill of Sale
"
     (d) an assignment or assignments transferring any Assumed Contracts to Buyer in the form attached as (the ), duly executed by Seller:
Exhibit D
"
Assignment of Contracts
"
     (e) the Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement, in each case duly executed by Seller;
     (f) an Access Agreement for each of the Purchased Premises, each such Access Agreement to be in the form attached as (the ), duly executed and acknowledged by Seller;
Exhibit F
"
Access Agreement
"
     (g) (i) a "non-foreign person affidavit" pursuant to Section 1445 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, such affidavit to be in the form of duly executed by Seller, and (ii) a Certificate of California Residency pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 18662(e)(i), 18662(e)(2)(E)(iii) and 18668;
Exhibit G,
     (h) an assignment or assignments conveying the MSO Agreements and the Wholesale Marketer Agreements to Buyer, in the form attached as (the ), duly executed by Seller;
Exhibit H
"
Assignment of MSO and Wholesale Marketer Agreements
"
     (i) an assignment or assignments conveying the Dealer Instruments to Buyer, in the form attached as (the ), duly executed by Seller;
Exhibit I
"
Assignment of Dealer Instruments
"
     (j) a Transition Services Agreement, in the form attached as (the ), duly executed by Seller;
Exhibit J
"
Transition Services Agreement
"
     (k) the Agreement Regarding Conversion of Premises, duly executed by Seller;
 
     (1) such instruments, affidavits and certificates (other than landlord estoppel or other similar estoppel certificates), as may be reasonably requested by the Title Company for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the transfer of the Assets in connection therewith;
     (m) copies of the Seller Required Consents;
     (n) copies of the Assigned Permits;
     (o) the books and records described in
Section 2.1(k);
     (p) a certificate dated the Closing Date and signed by an authorized officer of Seller, certifying as to the fulfillment of the conditions set forth in and
Section 6.1 (a);
     (q) such like-kind exchange documents that Buyer may reasonably request Seller to execute.
     5.3 At Closing, Buyer, and where applicable Buyer's Affiliate, shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Title Company and the Seller the following:
Closing Deliveries and Actions by Buyer.
     (a) the Purchase Price, as adjusted pursuant to the terms hereof, by means of wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account(s) designated in writing by Seller;
     (b) the Assignment of Lease(s), duly executed and acknowledged by Buyer;
     (c) the Bill of Sale, duly executed by Buyer;
     (d) the Assignment of Contracts, duly executed by Buyer;
     (e) the Assignment of MSO and Wholesale Marketer Agreements, duly executed by Buyer;
     (f) the Assignment of Dealer Instruments, duly executed by Buyer;
     (g) the Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement, duly executed by Buyer;
     (h) an Access Agreement for each of the Purchased Premises, duly executed and acknowledged by Buyer;
     (i) the Transition Services Agreement, duly executed by Buyer;
     (j) the Agreement Regarding Conversion of Premises, duly executed by Buyer;
     (k) copies of the forms relating to the registration, permitting and/or licensing (as required by Law) of all the UST Systems constituting the Assets in the State to be filed by Buyer on the Closing Date with the applicable Governmental Entity to evidence Buyer's ownership of the UST Systems in the State, together with any then issued permit(s) necessary for Buyer to install UST Systems at the Pre-Closing Removal Premises located in the State;
 
     (1) such instruments, affidavits and certificates, as may be reasonably requested by the Title Company for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the transfer of the Assets in connection therewith;
     (m) a certificate dated the Closing Date and signed by an authorized officer of Buyer, certifying as to the fulfillment of the conditions set forth in and
Section 6.2(a);
     (n) such like-kind exchange documents that Seller may reasonably request Buyer to execute.
     5.4 Buyer shall pay all costs for tax certificates and costs of recording the Grant Deeds and Assignments of Lease for the Purchased Premises, and Seller shall pay all costs of recording any Access Agreements applicable to the Purchased Premises. Buyer and Seller shall each be responsible for payment of fifty percent (50%) of any transfer (whether city, county or state transfer taxes), transaction, privilege (including, without limitation, a business and occupation tax), excise, revenue stamp, sales or use taxes, license fees or other taxes imposed on, levied on or with respect to the transfer of the Purchased Premises or any personal property or equipment transferred with the Purchased Premises.
Costs, Fees and Taxes Related to Closing
.
     5.5
Prorations
.
     (a) . General and special real estate and other Taxes and assessments and other state or local Taxes, fees, charges and assessments in respect of the Purchased Premises on the basis of the fiscal year in which the Closing occurs shall be prorated between Buyer and Seller as of the Closing Date. If the Closing Date shall occur before the tax rate or assessment is fixed for such fiscal year, the apportionment of such Taxes and payments at the Closing shall be based upon the most recently ascertainable Tax bills; that Buyer and Seller shall recalculate and re-prorate said Taxes and payments and make the necessary cash adjustments promptly upon the issuance, and on the basis, of the actual Tax bills received for the fiscal year in which the Closing occurs and the amount of any payments in lieu of Tax made with respect to any such fiscal year.
Real Property Taxes
ad valorem
provided
     (b) Personal property Taxes, if any, on the basis of the fiscal year in which the Closing occurs shall be prorated between Buyer and Seller as of the Closing Date. If the Closing Date shall occur before the tax rate or assessment is fixed for such fiscal year, the apportionment of such Taxes at the Closing shall be based upon a reasonable estimate agreed upon by Buyer and Seller; , that Buyer and Seller shall recalculate and re-prorate said Taxes and make the necessary cash adjustments promptly upon the issuance of, and on the basis of, the actual tax bills received for such fiscal year.
Personal Property Taxes
.
provided
     (c) Utilities, rents, Seller's base lease rentals and other obligations due on the Purchased Premises and other items of income and expense will be prorated as of the Effective Time. To the extent possible, prorations will be made on the Closing Date as of the Effective Time; otherwise, the Parties shall make prorations within ninety (90) days after the Closing Date.
Utilities and Rents
.
     5.6 Unless otherwise expressly provided for herein, possession and control of operations, risk of loss, and transfer of title to the Assets from Seller to Buyer shall be effective as of 11:59:59 p.m. Pacific Time on the Closing Date (the
Possession and Control
.
"
Effective Time").
 
     6.1 . The obligations of Buyer to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction by Seller, or waiver by Buyer, prior to and at the Closing of the following conditions:
Buyer's Conditions to Closing
     (a) All representations and warranties of Seller contained in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of such date; and all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Agreement to be complied with or performed by Seller on or before the Closing Date shall have been duly complied with or performed in all material respects;
     (b) All Seller Required Consents shall have been received by Buyer; that if the condition in subparagraph below has been satisfied then this condition shall be deemed to have been satisfied for purposes of Closing;
provided
(d)
     (c) There shall be no pending or threatened litigation or administrative proceeding seeking to restrain, enjoin or otherwise prevent the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
     (d) The historical annual aggregate number of gallons of motor fuel throughput that is attributable to the Purchased Premises to be conveyed to Buyer at Closing, together with the historical annual aggregate number of gallons of motor fuel throughput that is attributable to the Open Dealer Premises to which Buyer will have the right to supply motor fuel immediately following the Closing, shall equal or exceed the Minimum Volume Throughput Requirement;
     (e) The closing of the transactions contemplated by the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement (the shall have occurred concurrently with the Closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, under no circumstances shall either Party be obligated to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby unless the transactions contemplated pursuant to the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement are concurrently consummated;
"
Refinery Closing
")
     (f) Subject to any necessary revisions required to be made as a result of a Dropped Premises or ROFR Premises, Seller shall have delivered all documents, agreements or certificates required to be delivered, and taken all actions required, under of this Agreement; and
Section 5.2
(Closing Deliveries and Actions by Seller)
     (g) The applicable HSR waiting period and any extension thereof shall have terminated or expired and all other necessary consents, permits or approvals of and filings with any Governmental Entity related to the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained and made.
     6.2 . The obligations of Seller to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction by Buyer, or waiver by Seller, prior to and at the Closing of all of the following conditions:
Seller's Conditions to Closing
     (a) All representations and warranties of Buyer contained in this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the Closing Date with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on and as of such date; and all of the terms,
 
covenants and conditions of this Agreement to be complied with or performed by Buyer on or before the Closing Date shall have been duly complied with or performed in all material respects;
     (b) All Buyer Required Consents shall have been received by Seller;
     (c) Buyer shall have delivered to Seller the Purchase Price for the Assets;
     (d) There shall be no pending or threatened litigation or administrative proceeding seeking to restrain, enjoin or otherwise prevent the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
     (e) The Refinery Closing shall have occurred concurrently with the Closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, under no circumstances shall either Party be obligated to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby unless the transactions contemplated pursuant to the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement are concurrently consummated;
     (f) Subject to any necessary revisions required to be made as a result of a Dropped Premises or ROFR Premises, Buyer shall have delivered all documents, agreements or certificates required to be delivered, and taken all actions required, under () of this Agreement; and
Section 5.3
Closing Deliveries and Actions by Buyer
     (g) The applicable HSR waiting period and any extension thereof shall have terminated or expired and all other necessary consents, permits or approvals of and filings with any Governmental Entity related to the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained and made.
     Except for matters set forth in the Schedules referred to below, subject to Seller hereby represents and warrants to Buyer as of the date of the Initial Schedules Update as follows:
Section 13.7,
     7.1 Seller is a limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with full limited liability company power and authority to carry on its business and to own or lease and to operate its properties as and in the places where such business is conducted and such properties are owned, leased or operated.
Organization and Good Standing
.
     7.2 Seller has full limited liability company power and authority to execute, deliver and enter into this Agreement and the Transaction Documents, to fully perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been duly authorized by all requisite limited liability company action of Seller and this Agreement and the Transaction Documents have been duly executed and delivered by Seller and constitute the legal, valid and binding agreements of Seller enforceable against Seller in accordance with their respective terms, except as such enforceability is limited by general principles of equity and applicable provisions of bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or similar laws (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authority
.
     7.3 No consent, approval or authorization or waiver of any right-of-first-refusal of any Person, nor any declaration, filing or registration with any Governmental Entity is required to be
Consents
.
 
made or obtained by Seller (or by any Affiliate of Seller) in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by Seller of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, except for those consents set forth on (the and except for those consents which if not obtained would not prevent the consummation of all or a material portion of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; that the only recourse related to the failure to obtain any Seller Required Consent shall be the right to drop the applicable Purchased Premises from this Agreement as contemplated by
Schedule 7.3
"Seller Required Consents"
),
provided
Section 2.3
(Dropped Premises).
     7.4 Subject to obtaining the Seller Required Consents, and except for HSR, the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and the compliance by Seller with any of the provisions hereof and thereof does not and will not (a) violate or conflict with, or result in a breach of, any provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in the creation of any lien, claim or encumbrance upon the Assets under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of the limited liability company membership agreement, certificate of formation or other organizational documents of Seller or under any contract to which Seller is a party, or by which the Assets are otherwise bound, or (b) violate any applicable Law to which Seller is subject, or by which Seller or its assets or properties may be bound.
No Breach, Conflict
.
     7.5 Seller has not retained any broker or finder or incurred any liability or obligation for any brokerage fees, commissions, finder's fees or similar compensation with respect to this Agreement, the Transaction Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Brokers
.
     7.6 Except as set forth in , neither Seller nor, to Seller's Knowledge, the other party thereto, is in default under any of the Assumed Contracts, Dealer Instruments, MSO Agreements, Wholesale Marketer Agreements or Assumed Leases, other than defaults that would not have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in Seller has not received written notice of any actual or threatened cancellation or termination of any Assumed Contract, Dealer Instrument, MSO Agreement, Wholesale Marketer Agreement or Assumed Lease from any other party thereto. Subject to obtaining any applicable Seller Required Consents, Seller has the right to transfer the Assumed Contracts, Dealer Instruments, MSO Agreements, Wholesale Marketer Agreements and Assumed Leases to Buyer under this Agreement.
Contracts and Commitments
.
Schedule 7.6
Schedule 7.6,
     7.7 Except as set forth in , as of the Closing Date Seller will be the sole holder of fee simple title to each of the Fee Premises (subject to any Permitted Encumbrances and Material Title Objections that have not been cured as of Closing). Except as set forth in Seller has good and marketable title to the Equipment, free and clear of any liens and encumbrances (other than Permitted Encumbrances) and, subject to obtaining any applicable Seller Required Consents, has the right to transfer and sell the Equipment to Buyer under this Agreement.
Purchased Premises; Equipment
.
Schedule 7.7
Schedule 7.7,
     7.8 Except as set forth in excluding matters addressed in the Environmental Agreement, there is no claim, action, suit, demand, proceeding, arbitration, grievance, citation, summons, subpoena or, to Seller's Knowledge, inquiry or investigation, of any nature, civil, criminal, administrative, regulatory or otherwise, in law or in equity, pending or, to Seller's Knowledge, threatened, against Seller or any of Seller's Affiliates involving or affecting the Assets which could result in a Material Adverse Effect, and there are no judgments outstanding against Seller or any of Seller's Affiliates relating to or affecting the Assets, other than judgments that would not (individually or in the aggregate) have a Material Adverse Effect.
Actions and Proceedings
.
Schedule 7.8,
 
     7.9 Except as set forth in , other than with respect to Environmental Laws (which are addressed in the Environmental Agreement), Seller is in compliance with all applicable Laws relating to the ownership and operation of the Assets, including the Petroleum Marketing and Practices Act, 15 U.S.C.A. sec. 2801 et seq., the California Franchise Investment Law, California Corporations Code sec. 31000 et seq., and the California Business and Professions Code Division 8, Chapters 5.5 (Franchise Relations Act), 7.5 (Franchisees) and 7.8 (Franchise Dealers Fair Practices), as they are currently enforced, except for violations, non-compliance or other matters, if any, that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance With Laws
.
Schedule 7.9
     7.10 To Seller's Knowledge, reflects the unaudited historical sales volume information for retail motor fuel sold to RORO Premises and Open Dealer Premises and from Contract Operator Premises for the year ended December 31, 2005. The unaudited historical sales volume information set forth on has been derived from the accounting books and records maintained by Seller as of and for the historical periods set forth on . Under no circumstances should the inclusion of such sales information on be regarded as a representation, warranty or prediction with respect to future volumes or sales or that the Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises will achieve or are likely to achieve any particular results.
Historical Sales Volume Information
.
Schedule 7.10
Schedule 7.10
Schedule 7.10
Schedule 7.10
NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES, THE SALE OF THE ASSETS FROM SELLER TO BUYER, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ALL STRUCTURE, FIXTURES, EQUIPMENT AND OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY, IS MADE ON AN "AS IS, WHERE IS" BASIS AND WITH ALL FAULTS. EXCEPT FOR THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES IN THIS , SELLER HAS NOT MADE, DOES NOT MAKE AND SPECIFICALLY NEGATES AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES, PROMISES, AGREEMENTS OR GUARANTIES OF ANY KIND OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN, RELATING TO, CONCERNING OR WITH RESPECT TO (A) THE VALUE, NATURE, QUALITY OR PRESENT OR FUTURE CONDITION OF THE ASSETS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE PURCHASED PREMISES, (B) THE COMPLIANCE OF OR WITH ANY LAWS OF ANY APPLICABLE GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY, (C) THE LIABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY, MARKETABILITY, OR PROFITABILITY, SUITABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR USE OR PURPOSE OF THE ASSETS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE PURCHASED PREMISES, OR (D) ANY OTHER MATTER WITH RESPECT TO THE ASSETS. SELLER SHALL NOT BE LIABLE OR BOUND IN ANY MANNER BY ANY VERBAL OR WRITTEN STATEMENT, REPRESENTATION OR INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE ASSETS OR THE OPERATION THEREOF FURNISHED BY ANY PARTY PURPORTING TO ACT ON BEHALF OF SELLER, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY AGENT, BROKER OR SALESPERSON. THE STATEMENTS AND DISCLAIMERS MADE UNDER THIS , EXPRESSLY SURVIVE THE CLOSING. NOTHING IN THIS SHALL OPERATE TO DISCLAIM SELLER'S LIMITED WARRANTY OF TITLE TO BE CONTAINED IN THE GRANT DEED PERTAINING SOLELY TO THE TITLE TO THE APPLICABLE FEE PREMISES AND NOT ITS PHYSICAL CONDITION.
ARTICLE 7
ARTICLE 7
ARTICLE 7
     Buyer represents and warrants to Seller as of the date hereof as follows:
     8.1 Buyer is a Delaware corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with full corporate power and authority to carry on its business and to own or lease and to operate its properties as and in the places where such business is conducted and such properties are owned, leased or operated.
Organization and Good Standing
.
 
     8.2 Buyer has full corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and enter into this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, to fully perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been duly authorized by all requisite corporate action of Buyer and this Agreement and the Transaction Documents have been duly executed and delivered by Buyer and constitute legal, valid and binding agreements of Buyer enforceable against Buyer in accordance with their respective terms, except as such enforceability is limited by general principles of equity and applicable provisions of bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium, reorganization or similar laws (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authority
.
     8.3 No consent, approval or authorization of any Person, nor any declaration, filing or registration with any Governmental Entity is required to be made or obtained by Buyer (or by any Affiliate of Buyer) in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by Buyer of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, except for those consents set forth on (the and except for those consents which if not obtained would not prevent the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Consents
.
Schedule 8.3
"Buyer Required Consents"),
     8.4 The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and the compliance by Buyer with any of the provisions hereof and thereof does not and will not (a) violate or conflict with, or result in a breach of, any provision of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in termination of, or accelerate the performance required by any of the terms, conditions or provisions of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of Buyer or under any material agreement, instrument or obligation to which Buyer is a party, or by which Buyer or its assets or properties may be bound, or (b) violate any applicable Law to which Buyer is subject, or by which Buyer or its assets or properties may be bound.
No Breach, Conflict
.
     8.5 Buyer has not retained any broker or finder or incurred any liability or obligation for any brokerage fees, commissions, finders' fees or similar compensation with respect to this Agreement, the Transaction Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
Brokers
.
     8.6 At Closing, Buyer will have cash available to enable it to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Transaction Documents.
Availability of Funds
.
     8.7 Buyer acknowledges that (a) Buyer will not acquire from Seller all permits that may be necessary for Buyer to operate the Purchased Premises as operated by Seller, including without limitation, any permits necessary for the sale of alcoholic beverages or lottery tickets and (b) Seller makes no representation or warranty with respect to the compliance or noncompliance, as the case may be, of any of the Purchased Premises with (or whether such Assets or Purchased Premises are required to comply with) the standards or provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act
Compliance With Laws
.
     8.8 NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING CONTAINED HEREIN TO THE CONTRARY, BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES, UNDERSTANDS AND AGREES THAT BUYER WILL MAKE FULL AND COMPLETE INSPECTIONS OF THE PURCHASED PREMISES TO BUYER'S SATISFACTION PRIOR TO CLOSING AND THAT, BUYER WILL RELY SOLELY ON BUYER'S OWN INVESTIGATIONS OF THE ASSETS AND NOT ON ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED OR TO BE PROVIDED BY SELLER, OR ANY AGENT, REPRESENTATIVE OR OTHER PARTY ACTING ON BEHALF OF SELLER. IT IS THE
Limitations on Seller Representations
.
 
UNDERSTANDING AND INTENTION OF THE PARTIES THAT THE SALE OF THE ASSETS FROM SELLER TO BUYER IS MADE ON AN "AS IS, WHERE IS" BASIS AND WITH ALL FAULTS. BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT, EXCEPT FOR THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES IN , SELLER HAS NOT MADE, DOES NOT MAKE AND SPECIFICALLY NEGATES AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES, PROMISES, AGREEMENTS OR GUARANTIES OF ANY KIND OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN, RELATING TO, CONCERNING OR WITH RESPECT TO (A) THE VALUE, NATURE, QUALITY OR PRESENT OR FUTURE CONDITION OF THE ASSETS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE PURCHASED PREMISES, (B) THE COMPLIANCE OF OR WITH ANY LAWS OF ANY APPLICABLE GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY, (C) THE LIABILITY, MERCHANTABILITY, MARKETABILITY, OR PROFITABILITY, SUITABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR USE OR PURPOSE OF THE ASSETS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE PURCHASED PREMISES, OR (D) ANY OTHER MATTER WITH RESPECT TO THE ASSETS. BUYER REPRESENTS TO SELLER THAT BUYER IS RELYING, HAS RELIED AND SHALL IN THE FUTURE RELY SOLELY UPON ITS OWN INVESTIGATIONS, INSPECTIONS AND STUDIES OF THE ASSETS, AND NOT ON ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED OR TO BE PROVIDED BY SELLER, SELLER'S AGENTS OR CONTRACTORS OR OTHERWISE GENERATED FROM THIRD PARTY SOURCES. SELLER SHALL NOT BE LIABLE OR BOUND IN ANY MANNER BY ANY VERBAL OR WRITTEN STATEMENT, REPRESENTATION OR INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE ASSETS OR THE OPERATION THEREOF FURNISHED BY ANY PARTY PURPORTING TO ACT ON BEHALF OF SELLER, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY REAL ESTATE AGENT, BROKER OR SALESPERSON. BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE PURCHASE PRICE HAS BEEN SPECIFICALLY NEGOTIATED AND ADJUSTED TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE AS-IS NATURE OF THIS SALE AND THE DISCLAIMERS AND WAIVER OF REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES AS STATED HEREIN. BUYER FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT SELLER IS UNDER NO OBLIGATION TO REPAIR ANY ASSET AS A RESULT OF ANY INSPECTION BY BUYER, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY REPAIR THAT BUYER MAY REQUIRE OR MAY BE NECESSARY IN ORDER TO OBTAIN ANY PERMIT OR LICENSE AT THE PURCHASED PREMISES, IT BEING UNDERSTOOD THAT THE ASSETS ARE BEING SOLD ON AN "AS IS, WHERE IS" BASIS AND WITH ALL FAULTS. THE STATEMENTS AND DISCLAIMERS MADE UNDER THIS EXPRESSLY SURVIVE THE CLOSING. NOTHING IN THIS SHALL OPERATE TO DISCLAIM SELLER'S LIMITED WARRANTY OF TITLE TO BE CONTAINED IN THE GRANT DEED PERTAINING SOLELY TO THE TITLE TO THE APPLICABLE FEE PREMISES AND NOT ITS PHYSICAL CONDITION.
ARTICLE 7
SECTION 8.8
SECTION 8.8
Buyer acknowledges that, prior to the Closing Date, Buyer has had an opportunity to inspect the Assets, as contemplated by
Section 4.1
(Right of Entry and Inspection)
of this Agreement and has reviewed the Environmental Reports provided to it by Seller. Other than as expressly set forth in this Agreement, Buyer acknowledges that Seller has made no representations or warranties with respect to the condition of the Assets, it being the intent of the Parties hereto that, except as aforesaid, the Assets shall be conveyed and transferred to, and accepted by, Buyer, in their present state of repair, "As Is" and "Where Is, With All Faults". Notwithstanding any of the foregoing representations and/or warranties, in no event does Seller or any of its Affiliates make any representation or warranty in any Transaction Document, in respect of (a) the business prospects, or income or profit potential, if any, to be derived from the Assets or (b) the costs associated with operation or ownership of the Assets. Except as expressly set forth in any Transaction Document, neither Seller nor any of its Affiliates makes, and they expressly disclaim, any and all representations and warranties regarding (a) the condition of the Assets and (b) any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
 
     8.9 Buyer acknowledges that Buyer has made its own independent analysis and judgment of the commercial potential, condition and usefulness of the Assets, taking into consideration all current applicable Laws and the likelihood that such Laws and requirements will change in the future, and is not relying upon any projections from Seller regarding prospective operations of the Assets. Buyer has such knowledge and experience in business and financial affairs in general as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of purchasing the Assets. BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THERE ARE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES RELATED TO THE ASSETS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT AND THE TRANSACTION DOCUMENTS.
Independent Decision
.
Except as expressly provided in this Agreement or the Transaction Documents, in no event shall any projection as to the financial condition, financial results, status of assets or markets or any other projections made by or on behalf of Seller to Buyer be relied upon by Buyer, and Buyer acknowledges that Seller makes no representation or warranty and specifically disclaims any representation or warranty with regard to same.
     9.1 From time to time, as and when reasonably requested by any Party, each Party shall execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, all such documents and instruments and shall take, or cause to be taken, all such further actions which are consistent with, and customary and necessary for, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Further Assurances
.
     9.2
Taxes
.
     (a) Except as otherwise provided herein, Seller shall be responsible for and pay all Taxes ultimately imposed upon the Assets or in connection with the use or operation of the Assets before the Closing Date and Buyer shall be responsible for and pay all Taxes ultimately imposed upon the Assets or in connection with the use or operation of the Assets on and after the Closing Date. Any interest and penalties imposed in connection with Taxes due herein shall be the responsibility of the Party required to file the returns relating to such Taxes, to the extent they relate to timely filing, otherwise any interest and penalties shall become the obligation of the Party whose conduct or omissions gave rise to the imposition of such interest and penalties. Control of any judicial or administrative proceedings relating to: (a) Taxes required to be paid by either Party herein; or (b) entitlement to refunds or awards with respect thereto, shall rest with the Party responsible for payment thereof; that with respect to Tax issues involving both Parties, control of such proceedings shall rest with the Party having the larger amount of Taxes in dispute; the Party in control shall not settle Tax issues affecting the other Party without that other Party's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
provided
further
provided
     (b) After the Closing Date, each Party shall provide such assistance as the other Party may from time to time reasonably request in connection with the preparation of Tax Returns required to be filed, any audit or other examination by any taxing authority, any judicial or administrative proceeding relating to liability for Taxes, or any claim for refund in respect of such Taxes or in connection with any litigation and proceedings or liabilities related to the Assets, including making available employees for interviews, litigation preparation and testimony. The requesting Party shall reimburse the assisting Party for the out-of-pocket costs incurred by the assisting Party.
     9.3 Whether or not the Closing takes place, the Parties to this Agreement shall pay their own expenses, including broker fees, legal fees, transactional fees (other than fees related to
Expenses
.
 
Closing which are addressed in and Taxes which are addressed in and disbursements of their respective counsel, in connection with the negotiation, preparation and execution of any of the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated therein; that Buyer shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the HSR filing fees in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Section 5.4
(Costs, Fees and Taxes Related to Closing)
Section 9.2
(Taxes))
provided
     9.4 . Following the Closing Date, Buyer shall not amend, modify or extend any Assumed Contracts or Assumed Leases to which Seller remains a party or under which Seller otherwise remains obligated, without Seller's prior written consent (not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), unless and until the counter-party under such lease agreement or contract shall consent in writing to release Seller from any and all obligations, liabilities or responsibilities under the Assumed Contract or Assumed Lease so assigned. For the avoidance of doubt, Buyer's exercise of any option or right to extend the term of an Assumed Lease existing as of the Closing Date in any of the Assumed Leases shall not be subject to this .
Amendment of Contracts
Section 9.4
     9.5
Future Conveyances/Leases
.
     (a) Buyer shall not transfer, assign, convey or lease any Post-Closing Removal Premises or any portion thereof until the UST System has been removed from such Post-Closing Removal Premises in accordance with the terms of the Environmental Agreement. Subject to the foregoing, if Buyer intends to convey fee title or lease any of the Purchased Premises (including any conveyance to Seller pursuant to a Right of First Refusal) or all or any portion of any UST System for a Purchased Premises, Buyer shall before making such transfer, lease or conveyance:
     (i) obtain a Phase II Environmental Assessment and provide a copy to Seller, and, if required by applicable Laws, report any Environmental Condition that is determined to be present at such Purchased Premises to the applicable Governmental Entity;
     (ii) obtain in writing from any subsequent grantee or lessee of Buyer a right to access for Seller over such Purchased Premises, such right of access to run directly to Seller and contain the grants provided in and which right of access is acceptable to Seller, which shall be binding on any transferee, and its successors or assigns, and it shall be recorded with, or the contents thereof shall be contained in, the deed, lease or assignment transferring the Purchased Premises; and
Exhibit F
     (iii) make any such future conveyance of a Purchased Premises or any lease of a Purchased Premises (during the period that Seller is obligated to take any action pursuant to Articles V or VI of the Environmental Agreement) expressly subject to all the terms and conditions of this such that the grantee or lessee shall be required to agree to all the obligations of Buyer in this and at the time of such transfer, assignment, conveyance or lease the grantee or lessee assumes responsibility for Buyer's obligations pursuant to Articles V and VI of the Environmental Agreement, which include regulatory compliance, maintenance of insurance and permits, annual testing, inventory reconciliation and notification requirements.
Section 9.5
Section 9.5,
     (b) Buyer may convey fee title or lease any of the Purchased Premises to an Affiliate of Buyer without complying with the provisions of this that (i) in the event of such conveyance, lease or assignment, Buyer remains primarily liable and fully responsible to Seller for all obligations of Buyer hereunder and (ii) such grantee, lessee or transferee remains an Affiliate of Buyer for the remainder of the period set forth in subparagraph below.
Section 9.5,
provided,
(d)
 
     (c) No future transfer, lease or conveyance of a Purchased Premises, including but not limited to the conveyances permitted in subparagraph above, shall release Buyer or its permitted successors or assigns from any obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
     (d) This shall survive until the later of (i) fifteen (15) years following the Closing Date and (ii) with respect to any Purchased Premises where Seller is indemnifying Buyer pursuant to Section 5.01 of the Environmental Agreement or otherwise conducting Remediation, until Seller has completed such indemnification or Remediation.
Section 9.5
     9.6 Buyer covenants and agrees that it shall not install and it shall prevent any subsequent purchaser or permitted assignee of the Purchased Premises from installing, any well or other tank, pump or related equipment for the storage or use of potable water at the Purchased Premises. In addition. Buyer covenants and agrees that it shall not improve or use, and shall prohibit any subsequent purchaser or assignee of the Purchased Premises from using or improving, the Purchased Premises for residential purposes. With respect to Fee Premises, each of these covenants shall appear in the Grant Deed delivered pursuant to this Agreement and shall run with the land and bind Buyer's successors and assigns.
Future Use of Premises
.
     9.7 On and after the Closing Date, Buyer and Seller agree that Buyer shall assume operations of the Purchased Premises in accordance with the timetable mutually agreed by the Parties in writing at least fifteen (15) days prior to the Closing Date (the and executed and delivered at Closing in accordance with and . Seller, at Buyer's request, agrees to operate each such Purchased Premises from the Closing Date until the earlier to occur of (i) the date identified in the Agreement Regarding Conversion of Premises for Buyer to assume operations of the applicable Purchased Premises and (ii) 5:00 p.m. Houston, Texas time on the thirtieth (30th) day following the Closing Date (the date applicable to each such Purchased Premises being the for such Purchased Premises). The date of the Inventory Statement prepared for each Contract Operator Premises pursuant to shall be determined as of the time Buyer assumes the operation of such premises on the Conversion Date. From the Closing Date until the Conversion Date for each respective Purchased Premises Buyer grants Seller the right to operate each Purchased Premises pursuant to this and the Access Agreements. During the Conversion Period, Seller shall retain all receipts from the sale of Refined Petroleum Inventory at the Contract Operator Premises and on the Closing Date Seller shall pay to Buyer an amount agreed upon and set forth in the Agreement Regarding Conversion of Premises.
Post Closing Arrangements Relating to Purchased Premises
.
"")
Agreement Regarding Conversion of Premises
Sections 5.2
5.3
""
Conversion Date
Section 3.2
(Refined Petroleum Products Inventory Count)
(""),
Conversion Period
Section 9.7
     9.8 Buyer acknowledges: (i) that Seller's right to assign the Dealer Instruments pertaining to the operation of the RORO Premises, and sell the RORO Premises to Buyer, is subject to the California Business and Professions Code, Section 20999  20990.4, whereby Seller is obligated to provide those Dealers with an opportunity to purchase the applicable RORO Premises; (ii) Seller may terminate or non-renew the Dealer Instruments in accordance with the PMPA; and (iii) by virtue of the assignment of the Dealer Instruments to Buyer on the Closing Date, Buyer will be a "franchisor" as that term is defined under the PMPA. Accordingly, Buyer shall comply with its obligations as a "franchisor" as they relate to the Dealer Instruments with the "franchisee" Dealers situated on the RORO Premises or Open Dealer Premises, including the requirement to offer renewal franchise agreements to the Dealers, several of whom may be near, or may have been extended beyond, the expiration date stated in their respective Dealer Instruments.
Dealer Instruments
.
 
     10.1 This Agreement may be terminated and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement abandoned at any time prior to the Closing:
Methods of Termination
.
     (a) by mutual written consent of Buyer and Seller;
     (b) by Buyer in the event the Closing shall not have occurred on or prior to June 1, 2007 or such later date as the Parties agree in writing (the (including due to non-satisfaction or fulfillment of the conditions set forth in that such failure to close is not due (i) primarily to Buyer breaching any representation, warranty or covenant of Buyer contained in this Agreement or (ii) to the failure to satisfy as of June 1, 2007;
"")
Closing Deadline
Section 6.1
(Buyer's Conditions to Closing)),
provided
Section 6.1(g)
     (c) by Seller in the event the Closing shall not have occurred on or prior to the Closing Deadline (including due to non-satisfaction or fulfillment of the conditions set forth in that such failure to close is not due (i) primarily to Seller breaching any representation, warranty or covenant of Seller contained in this Agreement or (ii) to the failure to satisfy as of June 1, 2007;
Section 6.2
(Seller's Conditions to Closing)),
provided
Section 6.2(g)
     (d) by either Party, pursuant to or
Section 4.9
(Supplemental Disclosures);
     (e) by either Party if such terminating Party terminates the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement pursuant to an express right to do so by the terminating Party pursuant to the provisions of the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement.
In the event of termination by Buyer or Seller pursuant to this , written notice thereof shall forthwith be given to the other Party and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be terminated, without further action by any Party.
Section 10.1
     10.2 If all conditions to Closing set forth in and are satisfied other than the conditions set forth in and then the Closing Deadline shall be extended to such date as the Parties mutually agree, but in the event the Parties do not mutually agree, then the Closing Deadline shall be extended to July 1, 2007 and after July 1, 2007 either Party may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice in the event the Closing conditions set forth in this Agreement, including under and , have not been satisfied by such extended Closing Deadline.
Extended Closing Deadline
.
Sections 6.1
6.2
Sections 6.1(g)
6.2(g),
Sections 6.1(g)
6.2(g)
     10.3 If this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to
Obligations Upon Termination
.
Section 10.1
(Methods of Termination):
     (a) Buyer shall immediately return to Seller all documents and other material received from Seller and its Representatives (including any copies thereof in whatever medium) relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, whether so obtained before or after the execution hereof;
     (b) the Confidentiality Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the period set forth therein, notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement;
 
     (c) this Agreement shall become null and void and of no further force and effect, except that the provisions of and hereto shall survive indefinitely; and
Section 9.3
(Expenses),
Section 13.2
(Governing Law),
Section 13.3
(Dispute Resolution)
Schedule A
     (d) except as set forth in this . neither Buyer nor Seller shall have any further obligation to the other, and Seller shall be free to enjoy all rights of ownership of the Assets without any restriction under this Agreement.
Section 10.3
Nothing in this shall be deemed to release any Party from any liability for any breach by such Party of the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 10
     10.4 . In the event of the default or breach of this Agreement by Buyer or Seller that results in the failure to consummate the sale of the Assets to Buyer, then Buyer or Seller, as applicable, shall be entitled to seek specific performance of such transactions as provided for herein in any action instituted in any court of the United States or any state thereof having jurisdiction over the Parties and the matter (subject to the provisions set forth in and in addition to any other remedy to which a Party may be entitled, at law or in equity. Notwithstanding the preceding to the contrary, the remedy of specific performance shall only be available to any Party if the transactions contemplated by both this Agreement and the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement are consummated concurrently in connection with specific performance relief.
Specific Performance
Section 13.2
(Governing Law)
Section 13.3
(Dispute Resolution)),
     10.5 . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement, in the event a Party (the
Cross Default
"Defaulting Party"
):
     (a) breaches its obligation to consummate the Refinery Closing without a contractual right to refuse to consummate such transaction, then such breach shall also constitute a breach of this Agreement by the Defaulting Party for which damages may be asserted against the Defaulting Party or for which specific performance pursuant to may be sought, in each case for the Defaulting Party's failure to close the transactions contemplated hereby; or
Section 10.4
     (b) breaches its representations, warranties or covenants contained in the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement to the extent that permits the non-breaching Party (pursuant to the terms of the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement) to not consummate the Refinery Closing and which results in the failure of the Refinery Closing to occur, then such breach shall also constitute a breach of this Agreement by the Defaulting Party for which damages may be asserted against the Defaulting Party for the failure of the closing of the transactions contemplated hereby.
     11.1 Except for matters covered by the Environmental Agreement, and except for matters for which Buyer has indemnified Seller pursuant to and subject to the limitations set forth in and and in consideration of Buyer's performance of its obligations under the Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement and applicable Access Agreements, Seller shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless the Buyer Indemnified Parties from and against all Losses arising or resulting from the following:
Indemnification by Seller
.
Section 11.2
(Indemnification by Buyer)
Section 12.2
(Monetary Limitation on Seller's Indemnification),
Section 12.3
(Time Limitation on Seller Indemnification),
Section 12.4
(Termination of all of Seller's Indemnification)
Section 12.5
(No Punitive or Consequential Damages),
 
     (a) Any breach by Seller of any representation or warranty under this Agreement; however, that Seller shall not have any liability under this subparagraph for any breach of a representation or warranty contained in this Agreement if Buyer had knowledge of such breach at the time of Closing and failed to notify Seller in writing of such breach;
provided,
(a)
     (b) The failure by Seller to perform any of the covenants or agreements to be performed by Seller under this Agreement after the Closing Date;
     (c) Any Claim related to like-kind exchange completed by Seller pursuant to and
Section 3.4
(Deferred Like-Kind Exchange);
     (d) Any Third Party Claim related to (i) Seller's ownership or operation of the Assets and (ii) Seller's failure to perform a contractual obligation under a Contract Asset, but in each case only to the extent such Losses relate to or arise out of events occurring or arising prior to the Effective Time.
     11.2 Except for matters covered by the Environmental Agreement and except for matters for which Seller has indemnified Buyer pursuant to and subject to the limitations set forth in Buyer shall indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless the Seller Indemnified Parties from and against any and all Losses arising or resulting from the following:
Indemnification by Buyer
.
Section 11.1
(Indemnification by Seller)
Section 12.5
(No Punitive or Consequential Damages),
     (a) Any breach by Buyer of any representation or warranty under this Agreement; however, that Buyer shall not have any liability under this subparagraph for any breach of a representation or warranty contained in this Agreement if Seller had knowledge of such breach at the time of Closing and failed to notify Buyer in writing of such breach;
provided,
(a)
     (b) The failure by Buyer to perform any of the covenants or agreements to be performed by Buyer under this Agreement on and after the Effective Time, including without limitation, Buyer's performance of the obligations under the Assumed Leases, the Assumed Contracts, the Wholesale Marketer Agreements and the MSO Agreements and Dealer Instruments assumed by Buyer in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby;
     (c) Any Claim related to a like-kind exchange completed by Buyer pursuant to
Section 3.4
(Deferred Like-Kind Exchange);
     (d) Any Third Party Claim related to the Purchased Premises or with respect to the Assets to the extent arising from events occurring on or after the Effective Time or conditions existing on or after the Effective Time; and
     (e) Any act, omission, occurrence or event arising out of, or resulting from, Buyer's entry into and inspection of any Purchased Premises or Open Dealer Premises pursuant to of this Agreement.
Section 4.1
(Right of Entry and Inspection)
     11.3 Seller's and Buyer's indemnification obligations with respect to environmental matters are governed by the terms of the Environmental Agreement.
Environmental Indemnification
.
 
     12.1 (a) (i) The representations and warranties of the Parties made herein and at the time of the Closing or in writing delivered pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement (other than those contained in and shall survive the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby for following the Closing Date; and (ii) the representations and warranties of the Parties contained in and shall survive the Closing indefinitely.
Survival
.
Sections 7.1
(Organization and Good Standing),
7.2
(Authority),
7.5
(Brokers),
8.1
(Organization and Good Standing),
8.2
(Authority)
8.5
(Brokers))
twelve (12) months
Sections 7.1
(Organization and Good Standing),
7.2
(Authority),
7.5
(Brokers),
8.1
(Organization and Good Standing),
8.2
(Authority)
8.5
(Brokers)
          (b) The provisions of shall survive as to each Assumed Lease and Assumed Contract for so long as Seller remains a party to or otherwise obligated under any such agreement or contract.
Section 9.4
(Amendment of Contracts)
          (c) The provisions of shall survive as set forth therein.
Section 9.5
(Future Conveyances/Leases)
          (d) The provisions of shall survive indefinitely.
Section 9.6
(Future Use of Premises)
          (e) The provisions of shall survive as provided therein.
Section 3.4
(Deferred Like-Kind Exchange)
          (f) The provisions of shall survive as provided therein.
Section 11.1
(Indemnification by Seller)
          (g) The provisions of shall survive indefinitely.
Section 11.2
(Indemnification by Buyer)
     12.2 Seller's obligation to indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless any Buyer Indemnified Party for any individual Claim shall be limited to individual Claims in excess of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) (the and then only for amounts in excess of the Threshold Amount. Subject to the limitations contained herein and in the Environmental Agreement, Seller's maximum aggregate liability for Claims covered by Seller's indemnity obligations under together with any Claims made against Seller under Section 5.01 of the Environmental Agreement, shall be limited to Forty Million Dollars ($40,000,000) (the "The foregoing limitations shall not apply to (a) Claims pursuant to for breaches of the representations and warranties contained in Sections and and (b) Claims pursuant to for breaches of the representations and warranties contained in and
Monetary Limitation on Seller's Indemnification
.
"Threshold Amount),
Section 11.1
(Indemnification by Seller),
Indemnity Cap
").
Section 11.1 (a)
(Indemnification by Seller)
7.1
(Organization and Good Standing),
7.2
(Authority)
7.5
(Brokers),
Section 11.2(a)
(Indemnification by Buyer)
Sections 8.1
(Organization and Good Standing),
8.2
(Authority)
8.5
(Brokers).
     12.3 Unless sooner terminated pursuant to Seller's obligation to indemnify, defend, save and hold harmless any Buyer Indemnified Party pursuant to shall terminate:
Time Limitation on Seller's Indemnification
.
Section 12.4
(Termination of all of Seller's Indemnification),
Section 11.1
(Indemnification by Seller)
     (a) with respect to a Claim asserted under (other than Claims for breaches of the representations and warranties contained in Sections
Section 1l.l(a)
7.1
(Organization and Good
 
and on the date following the Closing Date; and
Standing),
7.2
(Authority)
7.5
(Brokers)),
twelve (12) months
     (b) with respect to Claims asserted under through , on the date following the Closing Date
Section 11.1 (b)
(d)
thirty six (36) months
(each such date being a unless a Claim Notice is delivered by a Buyer Indemnified Party to Seller in accordance with or prior to the close of business Houston, Texas time on the applicable Termination Date.
"Termination Date
"),
Section 12.9
12.10
     12.4
Termination of all of Seller's Indemnification
.
     (a) On and after the Closing Date, Seller's obligations to indemnify or take other action pursuant to shall terminate with respect to a particular Purchased Premises in the event Buyer conveys fee title to or leases such Purchased Premises (unless Buyer complies with the provisions of ).
ARTICLE 11
(Indemnification)
Section 9.5
     (b) No future conveyance or lease shall release Buyer or its successors or assigns from any obligations under this Agreement. Seller's indemnification obligations under this Agreement are not assignable to and do not inure to the benefit of any new owner or lessee of the Purchased Premises.
     12.5
No Punitive or Consequential Damages
. Except as provided in the other Transaction Documents between the Parties, no Party to any Transaction Document, nor any of their respective Affiliates, shall be liable to any other party or any of its Affiliates for Claims for punitive, special, speculative, treble, remote, exemplary, incidental, indirect, or consequential damages, including damages for loss of profits, loss in value of assets, loss of use or revenue or losses by reason of cost of capital connected with any Transaction Document, regardless of whether a Claim is based in contract, tort (including negligence), strict liability, violation of any applicable deceptive trade practices act, or similar legal requirement or any other legal or equitable principle unless such damages are assessed by a Third Party against a Party hereto.
     12.6 Except for (i) matters covered by or or related to an Access Agreement, for which Seller may pursue any remedy available at law or in equity, including but not limited to, seeking injunctive or equitable relief, or seeking any restraining order, temporary injunction and/or permanent injunction (mandatory and/or inhibitory) to compel compliance with this Agreement and (ii) the right to specific performance provided in Buyer and Seller agree that the sole and exclusive remedy of any party hereto or their respective Affiliates with respect to (a) any and all Losses covered by this Agreement or the Transfer Documents; (b) this Agreement and the Transfer Documents; and (c) any other Claims relating to a breach or default under any Transfer Document, including, but not limited to, Claims based on breach of representation, shall be limited to the indemnification provisions set forth in this Agreement and, in furtherance of the foregoing, each of the Parties on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, hereby waives and releases the other Party thereto (and such other Party's Affiliates) from, to the fullest extent permitted under any applicable Law, any and all rights, claims and causes of action it or its Affiliates may have against the other Party hereto except as expressly provided herein and except for any Claims or causes of action that relate to fraud.
Exclusive Remedy/Express Negligence Rules
.
Section 9.5
(Future Conveyances/Leases)
Section 9.6
(Future Use of Premises)
Section 10.4,
The indemnity provisions in this Agreement are intended to be enforceable against the Parties in accordance with the express terms and scope herein notwithstanding any applicable express negligence rules or any similar directive that would prohibit or otherwise limit indemnities because of the simple or gross negligence (whether sole, concurrent, active or passive) or other fault or strict or statutory liability
 
of any of the Indemnified Parties under any Law (including statutory, regulatory and case Law) regardless of whether such Law, was in existence as of the date hereof.
     12.7 The amount of any Losses incurred by any Indemnified Party shall be reduced by (a) any recovery by the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates (after deducting all attorneys' fees, expense and other costs of recovery) from any insurer or other party liable for such Loss or (b) any applicable UST fund administered by a Governmental Entity.
Damages/Indemnity Reduction Due to Tax Benefits/Insurance
.
     12.8 The indemnification obligations of an Indemnifying Party shall be appropriately reduced to the extent an Indemnified Party does not use reasonable steps and use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any and all Losses, it being understood and agreed that to the extent any Indemnified Party undertakes such mitigation efforts, the costs of such efforts may be included in the calculation of indemnifiable Losses hereunder.
Mitigation
.
     12.9 . Following the discovery of any facts or conditions that could reasonably be expected to give rise to a Loss or Losses for which indemnification is provided under this Agreement, the Indemnified Party shall, as promptly as reasonably possible thereafter, provide written notice (a ) to the Indemnifying Party setting forth the specific facts and circumstances, in reasonable detail, relating to such Loss or Losses and the amount of Loss or Losses (or a good-faith estimate thereof if the actual amount is not known or not capable of reasonable calculation); , that failure to give such Claim Notice on a timely basis shall not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent that such Indemnifying Party shall have been actually and materially prejudiced as a result of such failure to provide a Claim Notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing:
Procedures Relating to Indemnification Between Buyer and Seller
"Claim Notice"
provided
however,
     (a) a Buyer Indemnified Party shall not be entitled to indemnity hereunder against Seller under or unless and until (i) such Indemnified Party shall have provided Seller written notice of such Claim, and (ii) Seller shall have failed to cure such Claim, if curable, within sixty (60) days after Seller's receipt of a Claim Notice; and
Sections 11.1 (a)
11.1 (b)
     (b) a Seller Indemnified Party shall not be entitled to indemnity hereunder against Buyer under or unless and until (i) such Indemnified Party shall have provided Buyer written notice of such Claim, and (ii) Buyer shall have failed to cure such Claim, if curable, within sixty (60) days after Buyer's receipt of a Claim Notice.
Sections 11.2(a)
11.2(b)
     12.10
Procedures Relating to Indemnification for Third Party Claims
.
     (a) With respect to any indemnification provided for under this Agreement in respect of, arising out of or involving a claim or demand made by any Person against an Indemnified Party (a such Indemnified Party must provide a Claim Notice to the Indemnifying Party of the Third Party Claim as promptly as reasonably practicable after receipt by such Indemnified Party of notice of the Third Party Claim. Thereafter, the Indemnified Party shall promptly deliver to the Indemnifying Party copies of all notices and documents (including court papers) received by the Indemnified Party relating to the Third Party Claim; , that the failure to provide a Claim Notice, or deliver copies of all notices and documents, in a reasonably timely manner shall not affect the indemnification provided hereunder except to the extent the Indemnifying Party shall have been actually and materially prejudiced as a result of such failure.
"Third Party Claim"),
provided
however,
 
     (b) If a Third Party Claim is made against an Indemnified Party, the Indemnified Party shall permit the Indemnifying Party to participate in the defense thereof (it being understood that the Indemnified Party shall control such defense unless the Indemnifying Party assumes such defense as provided herein) and, if the Indemnifying Party so chooses and acknowledges its obligation to indemnify the Indemnified Party therefor, to assume the defense thereof with counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party provided that such counsel is reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party. Notwithstanding any acknowledgment made pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, the Indemnifying Party shall continue to be entitled to assert any limitation on its indemnification responsibility contained in this . Should the Indemnifying Party so elect to assume the defense of such Third Party Claim, the Indemnifying Party shall not be liable to the Indemnified Party for legal expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection with the defense thereof provided the Indemnifying Party does not seek to assert any limitation on its indemnification responsibility to the Indemnified Party. If the Indemnifying Party assumes such defense, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to participate in the defense thereof and to employ counsel, at its own expense, separate from the counsel employed by the Indemnifying Party, it being understood, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall control such defense subject to the agreement of the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party to cooperate in the defense of such Third Party Claim as provided below. The Indemnifying Party shall be liable for the fees and expenses of counsel employed by the Indemnified Party for any period during which the Indemnifying Party has not assumed the defense thereof or assumes the defense but asserts any limitation on its obligation to indemnify or defend which reduces its indemnification actions. If the Indemnifying Party chooses to defend any Third Party Claim, the Parties shall reasonably cooperate in the defense or prosecution of such Third Party Claim. Such cooperation shall include the retention and (upon the Indemnifying Party's request) the provision to the Indemnifying Party of records and information which are reasonably relevant to such Third Party Claim and making employees available on a mutually convenient basis to provide additional information and explanation of any material provided hereunder. Whether or not the Indemnifying Party shall have assumed the defense of a Third Party Claim, the Indemnified Party shall not admit any liability with respect to, or settle, compromise or discharge, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to such Third Party Claim without the Indemnifying Party's prior written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). The Indemnifying Party shall not consent to the entry of any judgment or enter into any settlement with respect to the Third Party Claim without the Indemnified Party's prior written consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed); , , such consent of the Indemnified Party shall not be required in the event the entry of such judgment or entering into a settlement with respect to such Third Party Claim does not include (i) the admission of any liability or responsibility on behalf of the Indemnified Party, (ii) any financial obligation to be paid by the Indemnified Party or (iii) any sanction or restriction upon the conduct of any business of the Indemnified Party.
ARTICLE 12
provided
however
     13.1 Buyer and Seller agree that, from the date hereof through and including the Closing Date, no public release or announcement concerning this Agreement, the Transaction Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be issued or made by any Party without the prior consent of each other Party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), except as such release or announcement may be required by applicable Law, prior contractual obligations or the rules or regulations of any securities exchange, whether in the United States or elsewhere, (or upon advice of counsel such release or announcement is appropriate or desirable under or in light of such contractual obligations, laws and regulations), in which case the Party
Publicity/Confidentiality
.
 
making the release or announcement shall allow each other Party reasonable time to comment on such release or announcement in advance of such issuance. Notwithstanding the foregoing. Buyer and Seller shall cooperate to prepare a joint press release to be issued on the Closing Date and, upon the request of either Buyer or Seller, at the time of the signing of this Agreement. .
Buyer and Seller agree to keep the terms of this Agreement confidential, except to the extent required by applicable Law or prior contractual obligation or for financial reporting purposes and except that the Parties may disclose such terms to their respective Affiliates, counsel, auditors, accountants, agents, advisors and other representatives as necessary in connection with the ordinary conduct of their respective businesses (so long as such Persons agree to keep the terms of this Agreement confidential)
     13.2 . This Agreement and the Transaction Documents (unless expressly provided otherwise therein) and the obligations of the Parties hereunder and thereunder shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive and procedural laws of the State of Texas, without regard to rules on choice of law. Subject to and without limiting the provisions of Section any action to enforce the terms hereof or the Transaction Documents (unless expressly provided otherwise therein) may be properly venued in, and shall be brought in, the federal or state courts located in Houston, Texas. Each Party agrees that it shall irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of such courts for purposes of actions to enforce the terms of this Agreement and the Transaction Documents (unless expressly provided otherwise therein) and to service of process by certified mail, delivered to the applicable Party at the address indicated herein. Each Party hereby irrevocably waives (on it own behalf and on behalf of its other Indemnified Parties), to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, any objection to personal jurisdiction, whether on grounds of venue, residence or domicile. In addition, each Party hereby irrevocably waives (on it own behalf and on behalf of its other Indemnified Parties), to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any proceedings relating to this Agreement or the Transaction Documents (unless expressly provided otherwise therein).
Governing Law
13.3,
     13.3 . Except for matters covered by or or related to an Access Agreement, for which Seller may pursue any remedy available at law or in equity, including but not limited to, seeking injunctive or equitable relief, or seeking any restraining order, temporary injunction and/or permanent injunction (mandatory and/or inhibitory) to compel compliance with this Agreement, the provisions of Article XVI of the Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement shall apply to any Claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the performance, breach, validity, interpretation, application, or termination hereof whether based on contract, tort, statute or other legal or equitable theory (including any Claim of fraud, misrepresentation or fraudulent inducement or any question of validity or effect of this Agreement including this Section). This shall survive indefinitely.
Dispute Resolution
Section 9.5
(Future Conveyances/Leases)
Section 9.6
(Future Use of Premises)
Section 13.3
     13.4 . This Agreement and any rights and obligations hereunder shall not be assignable or transferable by Buyer or Seller without the prior written consent of the other Party (provided that Seller's prior written consent shall not be required in the event Buyer transfers its entire rights and obligations hereunder to its parent company or a wholly owned Subsidiary of Buyer, as long as Buyer first fully guarantees such parent company's or Subsidiary's performance of all of Buyer's obligations under this Agreement and under all of the agreements that are exhibits hereto) and any purported assignment without such consent shall be void and without effect. Without limiting the generality of the preceding, the indemnification obligations of Seller and Buyer pursuant to this Agreement shall not be transferable or assignable in whole or in part without such Party's prior written consent and any purported or attempted transfer or assignment by an Indemnified Party shall be null and void without the prior written consent of the Indemnifying Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller may assign or transfer any or all of its rights hereunder to any qualified intermediary to complete a 1031 Exchange as contemplated in this Agreement.
Assignment
 
     13.5 . Seller and Buyer acknowledge that this Agreement has been entered into and Seller has agreed to perform post-Closing obligations under this Agreement in connection with, and in reliance on, Buyer's execution of and performance under each of the Refiner- Supplier Development Agreement and the Access Agreements which run with and burden the Purchased Premises.
Collective Transaction
     13.6 . All notices or other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or sent by prepaid telex or telecopy, or sent, postage prepaid, by registered, certified or express mail, or reputable overnight courier service and shall be deemed given when so delivered by hand, telexed or faxed, or if mailed, five (5) days after mailing (one (1) Business Day in the case of express mail or overnight courier service), as follows:
Notices
If to Buyer:
Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company 300 Concord Plaza Drive San Antonio, Texas 78216 Attn: Chief Operating Officer Fax: (210)283-2051
With a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company 300 Concord Plaza Drive San Antonio, Texas 78216 Attn: General Counsel Fax: (210)745-4494
If to Seller:
Shell Oil Products One Shell Plaza 910 Louisiana Houston, Texas 77002 Attn: Vice President  Portfolio Americas Fax: (713)241-9800
With a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to:
Shell Oil Products One Shell Plaza 910 Louisiana Houston, Texas 77002 Attn: General Counsel Fax: (713)241-1444
     Any Party may change the address to which such communications are to be directed to it by giving written notice to the other in the manner above.
     13.7 . Matters listed once on the Schedules shall be deemed disclosed with reference to all sections of the Schedules (including any disclosures made in amendments made pursuant
Schedules
 
to to the extent the applicability of such information is readily apparent. The inclusion of information in the Schedules shall not be construed as an admission that such information is material to the Assets or Seller. In addition, matters reflected in the Schedules are not necessarily limited to matters required by this Agreement to be reflected in such Schedules. Such additional matters are set forth for informational purposes only and do not necessarily include other matters of a similar nature.
Section 4.9)
     13.8 This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in one or more counterparts (including by means of faxed signature pages), all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more such counterparts have been signed by each of the Parties and delivered to the other Party.
Counterparts
.
     13.9 This Agreement, the Schedules and Exhibits and the agreements referred to herein or executed simultaneously herewith, set forth the entire agreement and understanding of the Parties in respect to the transactions contemplated hereby and supersede all prior agreements, arrangements and undertakings, whether written or oral, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, no conditions, usage of trade, course of dealing or performance, understanding or agreement purporting to modify, vary, explain or supplement the terms or conditions of this Agreement will be binding unless hereafter made in writing and signed by the Party to be bound, and no modification will be effected by the acknowledgment or acceptance of documents containing terms or conditions at variance with or in addition to those set forth in this Agreement, except as otherwise specifically agreed to by the Parties in writing.
Entire Agreement
.
     13.10 This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded or canceled, and any of the terms, covenants, representations, warranties or conditions hereof may be waived, only by a written instrument executed by the Parties, or, in the case of a waiver, by or on behalf of the Party waiving compliance. The failure of any Party at any time or times to require performance of any provision hereof shall in no manner affect the right at a later time to enforce the same. No waiver by any Party of any condition, or of any breach of any term, covenant, representation or warranty contained in this Agreement, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be or construed as a further or continuing waiver of any such condition or breach or a waiver of any other condition or of any breach of any other term, covenant representation or warranty.
Amendment and Waiver
.
     13.11 Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be valid and effective under applicable Law, but if any provision of this Agreement or the application of any such provision to any Person or circumstance shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision hereof.
Severability
.
     13.12 Except as provided with respect to indemnification for Indemnified Parties as set forth in and elsewhere in this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall confer any rights upon any Person other than the Parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
.
ARTICLE 11
     13.13 Subject to the provisions hereof restricting assignment, this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Binding Effect
.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Asset Purchase and Sale Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
     1.1 Unless otherwise specified:
Usage
.
          (a) a reference to "Articles", "Sections", "Annexes", "Exhibits" and "Schedules" shall be deemed to be references to Articles and Sections of, and Annexes, Exhibits and Schedules to, the Agreement to which this relates, unless the context shall otherwise require;
Schedule A
          (b) a reference to a "company" shall include any company, corporation or other body corporate, wherever and however incorporated or established and irrespective of the jurisdiction in or under the law of which it was incorporated or exists;
          (c) a reference to the words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "or" is not exclusive. The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in any Transaction Document shall refer to the agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of the agreement;
          (d) a reference to a "day" (including within the expression "Business Day") shall mean a period of 24 hours running from midnight to midnight;
          (e) a reference to time is a reference to the local time in Houston, Texas;
          (f) all headings and titles used in any Transaction Document are for convenience only and are not to be used in the interpretation or construction of any Transaction Document;
          (g) where the context so requires, words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice versa and words importing gender include any other gender;
          (h) all statements or language placed in parentheses within the Agreement are done so solely for convenience and ease of reading. In no event should such statements or language be given less import or be interpreted differently than if it were not so parenthesized; and
          (i) any agreement, instrument, statute, code, proclamation or decree defined or referred to herein means such agreement, instrument, statute, code, proclamation or decree as from time to time amended, modified, supplanted or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes, proclamations or decrees) by succession of comparable successor statutes, codes, proclamations or decrees. References to all agreements or instruments include attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein and references to any statute, code, proclamation or decree shall include all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
     1.2 The terms set out below shall have the following definitions when capitalized.
Definitions
.
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"1031 Exchange"
Section 3.4
     has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of the Agreement.
"Agreement"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Agreement Regarding Conversion of Premises"
Section 9.7
 
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Access Agreement"
Section 5.2(f)
     means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. It is understood that (i) an entity (hereinafter referred to as the "parent entity") directly "controls" another entity (hereinafter referred to as the "controlled entity") if the parent entity holds shares or equivalent ownership interest or contractual rights carrying more than fifty percent (50%) of the votes exercisable at a general meeting (or its equivalent) of the controlled entity or the right to appoint a majority of the members of the board of directors (or its equivalent) of the controlled entity, and (ii) a parent entity indirectly "controls" a controlled entity if a series of entities can be specified beginning with the parent entity and ending with the controlled entity such that each entity of the series owns, either directly or through one or more entities in the series, more than a fifty percent (50%) interest in a later entity in the series or otherwise holds (directly or indirectly) the rights with respect to the controlled entity.
"Affiliate(s)"
     means, in each case with respect to the Purchased Premises and Open Dealer Premises, as applicable (i) general contact and profile information for all Dealers (including lessee Dealers) and Contract Operators, (ii) the most recent two (2) years of site maintenance records, (iii) the most recent two (2) years of site-level volume, store sales and car wash data, (iv) site-level asset ledgers in electronic format, (v) site plans, "as built," engineered drawings, metes and bounds, drawings, schematics or site surveys, (vi) warranty and related data for Equipment, (vii) 2006 Mystery Shop/Image Audit or compliance results, and (viii) records relating to health, safety and maintenance for the most recent two (2) years, , Asset Records shall not include (A) any of Sellers' or its Affiliates' business plans, strategies and financial records, (B) any of Sellers' or its Affiliates' corporate minute books and records and Tax Returns, (C) personnel or medical records for which a Seller Employee's written consent to release of such record is not obtained, (D) materials that are subject to any applicable legal privileges, (E) information that is competitively sensitive or which Seller or any of its Affiliates is prohibited under applicable Law from disclosing to Buyer, and (F) information which Seller or any of its Affiliates is under an obligation to maintain confidential.
"Asset Records''
however
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Assets"
Section 2.1
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Assigned Permits"
Section 2.1(d)
     means the Seller's Assigned Rep or the Buyer's Assigned Rep, as the case may be.
"Assigned Rep"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Assignment of Contracts"
Section 5.2(d)
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Assignment of Dealer Instruments"
Section 5.2(i)
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Assignment of Lease"
Section 5.2(b)
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Assignment of MSO and Wholesale Marketer Agreements"
Section 5.2(h)
 
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Assumed Contracts"
Section 2.1(g)
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Assumed Leases"
Section 2.1(b)
      has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Bill of Sale"
Section 5.2(c)
     means the "Shell" brand.
"Brand"
     means a day on which banking institutions in Houston, Texas are open for business.
"Business Day"
     has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of the Agreement.
"Buyer"
     means Buyer, and its respective directors, officers, managers, and employees.
"Buyer Indemnified Parties"
     means C.A. Flagg or such other Person as Buyer may appoint from time to lime for purposes of of the Agreement.
"Buyer's Assigned Rep"
Section 4.2
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Buyer Required Consents"
Section 8.3
     means a dispute, claim, or controversy whether based on contract, tort, strict liability, statute or other legal or equitable theory (including any claim of fraud, misrepresentation or fraudulent inducement or any question of validity or effect of an agreement).
"Claim"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Claim Notice"
Section 12.9
     means the exchange of documents, instruments and funds as set forth in of the Agreement, at the date, time and places set forth in of the Agreement.
"Closing"
ARTICLE 5
Section 5.1
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Closing Date"
Section 5.1
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Closing Deadline"
Section 10.1(b)
     means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and all regulations promulgated thereunder.
"Code"
     means that certain Confidentiality Agreement dated August 7, 2006 between the Parties.
"Confidentiality Agreement"
     means, collectively, the Assumed Leases, the Assumed Contracts, the Wholesale Marketer Agreements and the MSO Agreements and Dealer Instruments assumed by Buyer.
"Contract Asset"
     means a Third-Party or other Person operating a retail motor fuel facility at the Contract Operator Premises pursuant to a written agreement with Seller or Seller's Affiliates.
"Contract Operator"
     has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the Agreement.
"Contract Operator Premises"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Conversion Date"
Section 9.7
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Conversion Period"
Section 9.7
 
     means a Third Party or other Person operating a retail motor fuel facility at the RORO Premises or Open Dealer Premises using the Brand pursuant to a written agreement.
"Dealer"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Dealer Instruments"
Section 2.1(h)
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Defaulting Party"
Section 10.5
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Drop Threshold"
Section 2.3
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Dropped Premises"
Section 2.3
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Effective Time"
Section 5.6
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Electing Party"
Section 3.4
     has the meaning set forth in .
"Employment Commencement Date"
Schedule 4.2(d)
     has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the Agreement.
"Environmental Agreement"
     has the meaning set forth in the Environmental Agreement.
"Environmental Condition"
     has the meaning set forth in the Environmental Agreement.
"Environmental Laws"
     has the meaning set forth in the Environmental Agreement.
"Environmental Reports"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Equipment"
Section 2.1(c)
     has the meaning set forth in
"ERISA"
Schedule 4.2(d).
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Excluded Assets"
Section 2.2
     has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of the Agreement.
"Execution Date"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Fee Premises"
Section 2.1(a)
     means the United States and any foreign, state, county, city or other political subdivision and any department, commission, board, bureau, agency, commission, officer, official, court, tribunal, arbitrator, board or bureau or other instrumentality thereof and any self-regulatory organization, such as a securities exchange.
"Governmental Entity"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Grant Deed"
Section 5.2(a)
     means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.
"HSR"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Indemnity Cap"
Section 12.2
     means Seller, pursuant to or Buyer, pursuant to as the case may be.
"Indemnifying Party"
Section 11. l(a),
Section 11.2(a),
     means a Party entitled to indemnification under the Agreement.
"Indemnified Party"
     has the meaning set forth in .
"Initial Schedules Update"
Section 4.9
 
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Inventory Statement"
Section 3.2
     means any applicable statute, law, ordinance, code (including the Code), rule or regulation of any Governmental Entity and any applicable order, decision, injunction, judgment, award and decree or consent of or agreement with any Governmental Entity.
"Laws"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Leased Premises"
Section 2.1(b)
     means any and all costs, Claims, losses (but excluding lost profits except to the extent awarded to a Third Party), liabilities, fines, penalties, obligations (including corrective and remedial obligations), damages (but excluding any indirect, special, punitive, exemplary and consequential damages other than such damages as may be awarded to a Third Party), and expenses (including reasonable legal fees and expenses and reasonable fees and expenses of other consultants, in each case as may be incurred in the investigation or defense of any of the same or in asserting any of their respective rights hereunder).
"Losses"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Management-Level Rep"
Section 4.2(c)
     means any change, circumstance, consequence or event that either has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material adverse effect on the Assets or the Purchased Premises, taken as a whole, or that will, or is reasonably expected to, materially impair or delay the ability of Seller to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Agreement.
"Material Adverse Effect"
     means any objections to title matters reflected in the Title Commitment that would materially restrict, or adversely affect in a material way, the use of a Purchased Premises by Buyer for retail motor fuel sales and any other current use on such Purchased Premises, but does not include Permitted Encumbrances.
"Material Title Objections"
     means 594,000,000 gallons per year (90% x 55 mmg/month).
"Minimum Volume Throughput Requirement"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Monetary Liens"
Section 4.4
     means a third party operating a retail motor fuel facility pursuant to a MSO Agreement.
"MSO"
     means a Multisite Contractor Operated Retail Outlet Agreement.
"MSO Agreement"
     means all stock, food and beverage inventory (including, without limitation, cigarette inventory) present at the Purchased Premises, but excluding all Refined Petroleum Products Inventory.
"Non-Petroleum Products Inventory"
     has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the Agreement.
"Open Dealer Premises"
     means Seller and Buyer, collectively.
"Parties"
     means each of Seller and Buyer.
"Party"
     means licenses, permits, certificates, orders, approvals and authorizations from a Governmental Entity necessary to operate the Assets.
"Permit"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Permitted Encumbrances"
Section 4.4
 
     means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, limited liability company, trust, estate, unincorporated organization or Governmental Entity; references to any Person includes reference to any successors in title and permitted assigns.
"Person"
     means activities designed to address remaining open questions following non-intrusive studies of the Premises, and may include, drilling and soil sampling near active or formerly active areas, the installation and sampling of groundwater monitoring wells or soil-gas sampling.
"Phase II Environmental Assessment"
     means the Petroleum Marketing Practices Act.
"PMPA"
     has the meaning set forth in the Environmental Agreement.
"Post-Closing Removal Premises"
     has the meaning set forth in the Environmental Agreement.
"Pre-Closing Removal Premises''
     has the meaning set forth in .
"Post-Retirement Funds"
Schedule 4.2(d)
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Purchase Price"
Section 3.1
     has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the Agreement.
"Purchased Premises"
     means the automotive gasoline and diesel fuel inventory present at a Purchased Premises and owned by the Seller on the Closing Date.
"Refined Petroleum Products Inventory"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement"
Section 2.5
     has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the Agreement.
"Refinery"
     has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the Agreement.
"Refinery Asset Purchase Agreement"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Refinery Closing"
Section 6.1(e)
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Reinstated Premises"
Section 2.3
     has the meaning set forth in the Environmental Agreement.
"Remediation"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Replacement Asset(s)"
Section 2.3
     means a Party's officers, directors, partners, members, managers shareholders and Affiliates, as the case may be, and its employees, attorneys, agents, advisors, consultants, accountants and financing sources.
"Representatives"
     has the meaning set forth in the Branding Agreement.
"Right of First Refusal"
     means has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"ROFR Premises"
Section 4.5
     has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the Agreement.
"RORO Premises"
     has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of the Agreement.
"Seller"
     has the meaning set forth in .
"Seller Employees"
Schedule 4.2(d)
 
     means the Seller and its directors, officers, managers and employees.
"Seller Indemnified Parties''
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Seller Required Consents"
Section 7.3
     means M. Charles Marion or such other Person as Seller may appoint from time to time for purposes of and of the Agreement.
"Seller's Assigned Rep"
Sections 4.1
4.2
     means the actual knowledge of Peter Hallberg (PMO Manager) and Steve Brommer (Sales Manager).
"Seller's Knowledge"
     has the meaning set forth in the recitals of the Agreement.
"Site List"
     means with respect to a Purchased Premises the state in which such Purchased Premises is located.
"State"
     of a Person means (i) any corporation more than 50% of the outstanding securities having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or (ii) any partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or similar business organization more than 50% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.
"Subsidiary"
     means any return, declaration, report or similar statement required to be filed with respect to any Taxes (including any attached schedules) including any information return, claim for refund, amended return and declaration of estimated Taxes.
"Tax Return''
     means all United States federal, state, local or foreign income, profits, gross receipts, windfall profits, severance, real or personal property, intangible property, occupation, production, franchise, capital gains, employment, withholding, social security (or similar), disability, registration, stamp, payroll, goods and services, alternative or add-on minimum tax, or any other taxes, charges, fees, imposts, duties, levies, withholdings or other assessments imposed by any governmental entity, including environmental taxes imposed pursuant to Chapter 38 of the Code, and similar state laws, excise taxes, customs duties, utility, property, sales, use, value added, transfer and fuel taxes, or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, together with any interest, fines, penalties or additions to tax attributable to or imposed on or in respect thereof imposed by any Governmental Authority, whether or not disputed, including all applicable sales, use, excise, business, occupation or other tax, if any, relating to this or any other service, supply or operating agreement and including any obligation to indemnify or otherwise assume or succeed to the tax liability of any other Person.
"Taxes"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Termination Date"
Section 12.3
     means a Person other than Seller, Buyer and their respective Affiliates.
"Third Party"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Third Party Claim"
Section 12.10
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Threshold Amount"
Section 12.2
     means a current CLTA title commitment for an Owner's Policy of Title Insurance or a Leasehold Policy of Title Insurance, as the case may be, for a Purchased Premises issued through the Title Company setting forth the state of title of each of the Purchased Premises and all liens,
"Title Commitment"
 
encumbrances and matters of record affecting such Purchased Premises, including easements, restrictions, rights-of-ways, covenants, conditions and reservations, if any, affecting the Purchased Premises, together with legible copies of the recorded instruments relating to such title matters and encumbrances.
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Title Company"
Section 4.3
     means the Agreement, the Environmental Agreement, the Grant Deed, the Assignment of Lease, the Bill of Sale, the Assignment of Contracts, the Refiner-Supplier Development Agreement, the Access Agreement, the Assignment of MSO and Wholesale Marketer Agreements, the Assignment of Dealer Instruments and the Transition Services Agreement.
"Transaction Documents"
     means the Agreement, the Grant Deed, the Assignment of Lease, the Bill of Sale, the Assignment of Contracts, the Assignment of MSO and Wholesale Marketer Agreements and the Assignment of Dealer Instruments.
"Transfer Documents"
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Transition Services Agreement"
Section 5.2(j)
      means an underground storage tank.
"UST"
     means the underground storage tanks, piping, leak detection devices and any related equipment, including "inground" hoists, direct and remote vapor and fill lines/buckets used for the storage and dispensing of petroleum products, used oil and/or heating oil, and other equipment related to the operation of a motor fuel service station which are, were or may be present on the Purchased Premises, but does not include any concrete or other slab or platform upon which such equipment may be stationed.
"UST System"
      has the meaning set forth in .
"WARN Act"
Schedule 4.2(d)
     has the meaning set forth in of the Agreement.
"Wholesale Marketer Agreements"
Section 2.1(f)

 
Exhibit 2.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     This Purchase and Sale Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (this "") is entered into as of January 26, 2007 (the "") between Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company, a Delaware corporation having a principal place of business in San Antonio, Texas (""), and USA Petroleum Corporation, a California corporation, USA Gasoline Corporation, a California corporation, Palisades Gas and Wash, Inc., a California corporation, and USA San Diego, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, each having a principal place of business in Newbury Park, California (collectively, "").
Agreement
Effective Date
Purchaser
Sellers
     Sellers operate certain sites at which fuel products are marketed to retail customers, together with a petroleum products terminal in New Mexico identified as facility #800 in (the ""), which are set forth on hereto.
Exhibit A
Terminal
Exhibit A
     Sellers desire to sell the Assets (as defined in Section 1.1.1) to Purchaser, and Purchaser desires to purchase such Assets from Sellers, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the matters set forth in the Preliminary Statement, and the mutual promises and covenants herein set forth, and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
     
1.1 Assets.
          1.1.1 In compliance with the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and for the consideration stated herein, at the Closing (as defined in Section 3.3) Purchaser shall purchase and assume from Sellers, and Sellers shall sell and deliver to Purchaser, the following properties and assets, other than the Excluded Property (collectively, the ""):
Sale.
Assets
               1.1.1.1 Those certain parcels of improved real property described as "Fee" sites on attached hereto (the "");
Exhibit A
Fee Sites
               1.1.1.2 Those certain leaseholds described as "Lease" sites on attached hereto (the "") currently occupied pursuant to commercial leases (each, a "");
Exhibit A
Leased Sites
Lease
               1.1.1.3 All improvements located on the Fee Sites and the Leased Sites (collectively, the ""), including, without limitation, buildings, station structures, convenience store structures, canopies, signage, terminals, facilities, fixtures, aboveground and
Sites
 
underground piping and storage tanks, pumps and appurtenances (collectively, the
"Improvements");
               1.1.1.4 All rights, privileges, easements and rights of way appurtenant to the Sites, including, without limitation, all mineral, oil and gas and other subsurface rights, development rights, air rights and water rights (the
"Appurtenances");
               1.1.1.5 All tangible assets used or held for use by Sellers in the operation of the Sites, located at the Sites, including, without limitation, all supplies, spare parts, tools, promotional materials, drawings, plats, surveys, plans and specifications, files, equipment manuals, equipment and furniture, but excluding (i) the Improvements, (ii) the Books and Records and (iii) the Inventory. The items covered by this Section 1.1.1.5 are herein referred to as the
"Personal Property";
               1.1.1.6 Subject to Section 11.1, all books and records relating to the Sites or the operation thereof (the including any documents that are stored or maintained in electronic storage format, such as computer disks or tapes;
"Books and Records"),
               1.1.1.7 All warranties, guaranties, approvals (governmental or otherwise), covenants or indemnifications owned by Sellers, or received by Sellers from a prior owner, or any other third party, relating to the Assets or their operation, except to the extent that such warranties, guaranties, approvals, covenants or indemnifications relate to liabilities retained by Sellers under this Agreement (collectively, the provided, however, the Intangible Property shall not include Sellers' rights or interest in any commitments for reimbursements related to the state Underground Storage Tanks Fund(s) except as provided by Section 7.5;
"Intangible Property");
               1.1.1.8 All fuel and merchandise on hand at the Sites at the Closing for resale, including, without limitation, petroleum products, tires, batteries, accessories, food, alcoholic and other beverages and tobacco products (collectively, the
"Inventory");
               1.1.1.9 Cash in the amount of $2,000 at each truck stop Site and $1,000 at each other Site other than the New Mexico terminal (the
"Drawer Cash");
               1.1.1.10 All Intellectual Property (as defined in Section 5.12.3) that is used, or held for use, or developed for use, in connection with the Assets and/or their operation, as currently conducted, as set forth on hereto, together with all ancillary rights thereto including the right to sue for damages for reason of past infringement claims (the
Exhibit B
"Acquired Intellectual Property");
               1.1.1.11 All USA Petroleum trade dress at the Sites, and all items in Sellers' warehouses that are suitable and may be used by Purchaser for hard rebranding of the Branded Sites (as defined in Section 1.4 below) to the USA Petroleum brand post-Closing;
               1.1.1.12 All computer systems, networks, hardware, routers, hubs, switches, data communication lines and all other information technology equipment located at
 
the Sites and, in addition, the office located assets set forth in (the
Exhibit C
"Acquired IT Assets");
               1.1.1.13 Those contracts and agreements set forth in (the
Exhibit D
"Contracts");
               1.1.1.14 All (a) licenses of Acquired Intellectual Property by Sellers to any third party, (b) licenses of Acquired Intellectual Property by any third party to Sellers, (c) other contracts and agreements between Sellers and any third party relating to the development or use of Acquired Intellectual Property, and (d) consents, settlements, decrees, orders, injunctions, judgments or rulings governing the use, validity or enforceability of Acquired Intellectual Property that are set forth on (the
Exhibit E
"Seller IP Agreements");
               1.1.1.15 The as set forth in
"Deposits,"
Exhibit F;
               1.1.1.16 To the extent transferable pursuant to Section 20.1 by Purchaser, all of the permits, licenses, registrations, certificates, consents, orders, notices, approvals or similar rights set forth in (the and
Exhibit G
"Permits");
               1.1.1.17 All rights and interest, if any, in historical pipeline shipment and terminal throughput granted to and held by Sellers on the Kinder Morgan SFPP pipelines (used for shipper transportation rights including allocations and proration) associated with the volumes of petroleum products and ethanol attributable to the Assets as well as all records of such use since January 1, 2004.
     
1.2 Excluded Property.
     Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement, the Assets (and any defined term for any property included in the Assets) exclude all assets and properties of Sellers not set forth in Section 1.1, including without limitation the following (collectively, the
"Excluded Property"):
          1.2.1 Intra and inter-company accounts and contracts of Sellers;
          1.2.2 All cash at the Closing except for $2,000 at each truck stop and $1,000 at each other Site (other than the New Mexico terminal);
          1.2.3 Defenses and claims that Sellers have asserted or could assert against third parties with respect to liabilities and obligations not assumed by Purchaser (except to the extent that such defenses and claims relate to liabilities that Purchaser is assuming herein, if any, and except for the right to sue for damages for reason of past infringement claims);
          1.2.4 Accounts receivable accrued prior to Closing;
          1.2.5 Equipment owned or leased by Sellers or their Environmental Consultant or Remediation Consultant used to satisfy Sellers' environmental obligations pursuant to Article 7; and
          1.2.6 Sellers' insurance policies.
 
     Purchaser is experienced in the operation of properties like the Assets and is familiar with the risks involved in owning and operating properties like the Assets, and is not relying on Sellers to furnish Purchaser any information as to such ownership and operational risks; provided, however, this Section 1.3 is in no way intended to, nor shall it, eliminate Purchaser's ability to rely on the representations, warranties and covenants of Sellers set forth in this Agreement, nor to excuse Sellers from the disclosure obligations under applicable law for a commercial property disclosure report concerning special flood hazard area, area of potential flooding, very high fire hazard severity zone, wildland-state responsibility area, earthquake fault zone, and seismic hazard zone.
1.3 Experienced Purchaser.
     The Sites currently branded Chevron or Shell are identified in (the The parties agree that the Branded Sites shall be debranded. Sellers shall use their commercially reasonable best efforts, including payment of any sums that must be paid, to cause such Branded Sites to be debranded at Closing, change all trade dress to soft USA Petroleum trade dress consistent with industry standards for soft branding and terminate all existing agreements with Chevron or Shell relating to the Branded Sites, including without limitation branding agreements and fuel supply agreements. If such branding agreements and fuel supply agreements cannot be terminated at or before Closing, then all existing agreements with Chevron or Shell shall be assigned to Purchaser or in the event that Chevron and/or Shell refuse to approve such assignment, the parties shall mutually agree to a method of operation and accounting for the Branded Sites that approximates the value to Purchaser which Purchaser would have received if such Sites had been debranded on or before Closing, but without liability to Sellers for any difference to Purchaser for its costs of fuel to an unbranded Site as compared to the fuel costs for the Branded Sites under the Chevron or Shell fuel supply agreement. In the event that such debranding does not take place on or before Closing, Sellers shall diligently continue to pursue such debranding after the Closing. All costs and expenses in connection with the debranding actions contemplated by this Section 1.4 shall be borne by Sellers.
1.4 Branded Sites.
Exhibit A
"Branded Sites").
     In consideration of the Assets, Purchaser shall pay to Sellers the total of the following:
2.1 Purchase Price.
          2.1.1 For the transfer, sale and assignment by Sellers of the Assets other than those Assets listed elsewhere in this Section 2.1, TWO HUNDRED SEVENTY-SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS ($277,000,000) as adjusted pursuant to Sections 3.4.1.9, 5.7 and 14.6 and Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10, if applicable;
          2.1.2 For the Inventory, an amount to be determined in accordance with the provisions of Article 17 (the
"Inventory Price").
          2.1.3 For the Drawer Cash, an amount equal to the aggregate amount of the Drawer Cash specified in Section 1.1.1.9 (the
"Cash Amount").
 
          2.1.4 For the Deposits, an amount equal to the aggregate dollar amount thereof set forth in (the
Exhibit F
"Deposit Amount").
The aggregate amount payable pursuant to this Section 2.1 is referred to as the The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that the Purchase Price is the result of an arms-length negotiation, and does not reflect any discount or reduction for the existence of any known or unknown contamination on, in, under or around the Sites.
"Purchase Price."
     The Purchase Price shall be payable as follows:
2.2 Payment.
          2.2.1 Concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, Purchaser shall deposit in a bank account designated by Sellers for their joint account wire-transferred funds in the amount of FIVE MILLION DOLLARS ($5,000,000) (the At the Closing, Purchaser shall pay Sellers in immediately available funds the Purchase Price Balance (as defined in Section 2.2.2),with the Earnest Money Deposit being applied and credited toward payment of the Purchase Price. In the event the Closing does not occur and the failure to close is the result of a material default of Purchaser hereunder, then the Earnest Money Deposit, together with any interest or earnings thereon, shall be retained by Sellers, as liquidated damages pursuant to Section 3.7; otherwise upon termination of this Agreement the Earnest Money Deposit, together with any interest or earnings thereon, shall immediately be returned to Purchaser unless Purchaser has theretofore elected to extend the Termination Date pursuant to Section 14.4 below.
"Earnest Money Deposit").
          2.2.2 On the Closing Date, Purchaser shall deliver or cause to be delivered to a bank account designated by the Sellers for their joint account the balance of the Purchase Price (i.e., the Purchase Price minus the Earnest Money Deposit) to Sellers by wire-transferred funds (including the Cash Amount, the Deposit Amount and the Estimated Inventory Price (as defined in Article 17 below)) (the
"Purchase Price Balance").
     In further consideration of the Assets and in compliance with the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and for the consideration stated herein, at the Closing Purchaser shall assume from Sellers the express obligations of Sellers under the Leases, Contracts, Permits or Seller IP Agreements arising after the Closing Date (none of which relate to a breach or violation of the Contracts, Permits or Seller IP Agreements) (the Except for the Assumed Liabilities, Purchaser is not assuming any obligations or liabilities of Sellers pursuant to this Agreement, any assignment and assumption agreement or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Purchaser is not assuming any obligation or liability of any Seller with respect to employees, Taxes (as defined in Section 5.17), accounts payable or indebtedness.
2.3 Limited Assumption of Liabilities.
"Assumed Liabilities").
     The parties agree that any property valuations established by the parties for the Assets are for purposes of (a) establishing an insured amount for the title commitments and Title policies; (b) preparing the closing statements and escrow instructions; (c) preparing affidavits of value and transfer tax returns; (d) calculating recording fees and transfer taxes, if applicable, and (e) preparing documents for obtaining any necessary governmental approvals for the consummation of the transactions governed by this Agreement. Such property valuations are not established necessarily for tax purposes or for financial or accounting ("book")
2.4 Valuation.
 
purposes. Neither the Purchaser nor Sellers shall have any liability to the other with respect to such valuations.
     Within five (5) business days after the date of this Agreement, Purchaser and Sellers shall open an escrow (the) for the purchase and sale of the Assets with First American Title Insurance Company by depositing a fully executed copy of this Agreement with Escrow Holder and depositing such funds at such time and from time to time as required to open and administer the Escrow in accordance with this Agreement and any escrow instructions. There shall be no delivery into Escrow of the Earnest Money Deposit or the Purchase Price or the Purchase Price Balance, which are to be paid outside of the Escrow in accordance with this Agreement. The terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement shall constitute both an agreement between Sellers and Purchaser and escrow instructions for Escrow Holder. If Escrow Holder requires separate or additional escrow instructions Sellers and Purchaser shall execute and deliver them to Escrow Holder promptly after any such request from Escrow Holder. If there is any conflict or inconsistency between this Agreement and the Additional Instructions, this Agreement shall prevail. The Additional Instructions shall not modify or amend the provisions of this Agreement unless Purchaser and Sellers specifically so agree in writing.
3.1 Opening of Escrow.
"Escrow"
("Escrow Holder")
("Additional Instructions"),
     The following shall be delivered into the Escrow in connection with the transfer of the Property:
3.2 Documents and Funds Delivered to and from Escrow.
          3.2.1 Deliveries by Sellers into Escrow. At least five (5) business days prior to the Closing Date for all items below, Sellers shall deposit into Escrow:
               3.2.1.1 for each Fee Site, a grant deed (each, a to the Fee Site in recordable form, duly executed by the applicable Seller and acknowledged and in substantially the same form as set forth in attached hereto;
"Grant Deed")
Exhibit H
               3.2.1.2 for each Fee Site, a separate statement of documentary transfer tax shall be prepared, duly executed by the applicable Seller;
("Statement of Transfer Tax")
               3.2.1.3 for each Leased Site, three (3) originals of an assignment and assumption of Lease (each, a duly executed in counterpart by the applicable Seller assigning to Purchaser such Sellers' interest and rights under the Lease applicable to such Leased Site in substantially the same form as set forth in attached hereto;
"Lease Assignment"),
Exhibit I
               3.2.1.4 for each Leased Site, Sellers' best copy of the original of the applicable Lease;
 
               3.2.1.5 for each Leased Site, one (1) original of the applicable Estoppel Certificate (as defined in Article 23) executed by the Landlord (as defined in Section 3.4.1.9) as provided in Article 23 in substantially the same form as set forth in attached hereto or, to the extent provided in Section 23.2, Sellers' certification in lieu thereof;
Exhibit J
               3.2.1.6 three (3) originals of a bill of sale (the ), duly executed by the applicable Seller, conveying to Purchaser all Personal Property in substantially the same form as set forth in attached hereto;
"Bill of Sale"
Exhibit K
               3.2.1.7 three (3) originals of an assignment and assumption of contracts and assignable permits (the duly executed in counterpart by Sellers, conveying to Purchaser all Permits and Contracts in substantially the same form as set forth in attached hereto;
"Assignment and Assumption of Permits and Contracts"),
Exhibit L
               3.2.1.8 three (3) originals of an assignment of intangible property and Acquired Intellectual Property (the
"Assignment of Intangible Property and Intellectual Property"),
               duly executed in counterpart by Sellers, conveying to Purchaser all of Sellers interest in and the rights to the Intangible Property in substantially the same form as set forth in attached hereto;
Exhibit M
               3.2.1.9 three (3) originals of the Trademark License Agreement (described in Section 4.1), duly executed in counterpart by Sellers;
               3.2.1.10 three (3) originals of each of the Trademark Assignment (described in Section 4.2) duly executed in counterpart by Sellers;
               3.2.1.11 three (3) originals of affidavits from Sellers which satisfy the requirements of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the in substantially the same form as set forth in attached hereto;
"Section 1445 Affidavit")
Exhibit N
               3.2.1.12 three (3) originals of Withholding Exemption Certificates, Form 593-e or, in the event that the purchase is not exempt from withholding under Revenue and Taxation Code Section 18662, three (3) originals of form 593-B or form 593-e if Sellers believe that either form is applicable or if a Seller is a non-California resident, a certificate issued by the California Franchise Tax Board, pursuant to the Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 18805 and 26131, stating either the amount of withholding required from such Seller's proceeds or that such Seller is exempt from such withholding requirement (the in substantially the same form as set forth in attached hereto;
"Certificate"),
Exhibit O
               3.2.1.13 a Resale Exemption certificate regarding the Inventory;
               3.2.1.14 such funds as might be required by Escrow Holder from Sellers initially and thereafter from time to time, to account for prorations handled by Escrow Holder in accordance with this Agreement; and
               3.2.1.15 such other instruments and documents as may be reasonably requested by Escrow Holder or otherwise required to transfer the Assets to Purchaser.
 
          3.2.2 Deliveries by Purchaser into Escrow. At least two (2) business days prior to the Closing Date for all items below other than those in Section 3.2.2.5 and Section 3.2.2.7 as to which at least five (5) days after execution of this Agreement, Purchaser shall deposit into Escrow:
               3.2.2.1 for each Leased Site, three (3) originals of the applicable Lease Assignment, duly executed in counterpart by Purchaser;
               3.2.2.2 for each Fee Site, one(l) original Preliminary Change of Ownership Form (the duly executed by Purchaser, in the form required by the county where the Fee Site is located;
"Preliminary Change of Ownership Form"),
               3.2.2.3 three (3) originals of the applicable Assignment and Assumption of Permits and Contracts, duly executed in counterpart by Purchaser;
               3.2.2.4 three (3) originals of the Assignment of Intangible Property and Intellectual Property, duly executed in counterpart by Purchaser;
               3.2.2.5 three (3) originals of the Trademark License Agreement, duly executed in counterpart by Purchaser;
               3.2.2.6 such funds as might be required by Escrow Holder from Purchaser initially and thereafter from time to time, to account for prorations handled by Escrow Holder in accordance with this Agreement; and
               3.2.2.7 such other instruments and documents as may be reasonably requested by Escrow Holder or otherwise required to transfer the Assets to Purchaser.
          3.2.3 Delivery by Escrow Holder. At least seven (7) business days prior to the Closing Date (as defined in Section 3.3 below), Escrow Holder shall deliver to Purchaser and Sellers the pro forma closing statement for the Closing which sets forth, in a manner satisfactory to Purchaser and Sellers, the prorations and other credits and debits contemplated by this Agreement.
     Subject to the parties' satisfaction or waiver of the closing conditions contemplated in this Agreement, the closing of the transactions contemplated hereby (the shall take place at 9:00 a.m., Pacific Time, on a business day that is not later than the later of five (5) business days after satisfaction or waiver of all closing conditions contemplated in this Agreement or on such other date as Purchaser and Sellers may agree in writing. The actual date on which the Closing occurs is herein referred to as the For purposes of this Agreement, the Closing shall be deemed to have occurred at 12:01 a.m. Pacific Time on the Closing Date.
3.3 Closing.
"Closing")
"Closing Date."
 
     
3.4 Conditions to Closing.
          3.4.1 Closing shall not occur unless and until the following conditions precedent and contingencies have been satisfied or waived in writing by Purchaser in Purchaser's sole and absolute discretion:
Purchaser's Conditions.
               3.4.1.1 Article 8 shall have been complied with and the Title Company remains committed to issue the Title Policies pursuant to Section 8.2;
               3.4.1.2 All items required to be delivered by Sellers into Escrow have been delivered to Escrow Holder pursuant to Section 3.2.1;
               3.4.1.3 On the Closing Date, Sellers shall not be in material breach in the performance of any covenant or agreement to be performed by Sellers under this Agreement;
               3.4.1.4 On the Closing Date, all representations and warranties made by Sellers in Article 5, Article 7 and Sections 16.5.2 and 23.2 shall be true and correct as if made on and as of the Closing Date except as otherwise provided in Article 10;
               3.4.1.5 Purchaser shall have received from Sellers' counsel an opinion dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser, that all necessary corporate and limited liability company action has been duly and validly taken on behalf of each Seller for the execution and performance of this Agreement and all other agreements entered into or instruments delivered by Sellers pursuant hereto;
               3.4.1.6 Sellers shall have complied with the requirements of Article 23 hereof;
               3.4.1.7 There shall not be in effect any order from a court or governmental authority having jurisdiction over the parties or the Assets barring the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement nor any litigation or proceeding by any federal or state governmental agency to restrain or prohibit the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
               3.4.1.8 There shall not be pending or threatened any litigation or proceeding instituted by any federal, state or foreign governmental authority to restrain, prohibit or otherwise interfere with or obtain substantial monetary damages in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the operation of the Sites by Purchaser after the Closing Date;
               3.4.1.9 All third-party Consents (as defined in Section 5.3) required to be obtained by Sellers shall have been obtained, including, without limitation, all required consents of the landlords under the Leases (each, a as described in Section 23.1 and the Consents set forth on If consent of a Landlord for a Site is not obtained, (i) the Purchase Price shall be reduced by ONE MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($1,800,000) for each such Site, without such amount necessarily representing the
"Landlord")
Exhibit P.
 
fair market value of the Site, (ii) the parties shall mutually work together to provide for continuing operation of the Site for a period of sixty (60) days following Closing and continue to seek the consent of such Landlord and (iii) if consent is not obtained, within the time stated above, Sellers shall retain the Site, the parties shall first attempt to agree to the fair market value of the Site and if they fail to agree, then the matter shall be submitted to arbitration for a determination of the fair market value of the Site and whenever the value is determined by agreement or arbitration, if the value is greater than $1,800,000, Sellers shall immediately pay Purchaser the difference between $1,800,000 and the determined value and if the value is less than $1,800,000 Purchaser shall immediately pay Sellers the difference between $1,800,000 and the value which is determined. If consent is obtained after Closing and within the sixty (60) days stated above, the parties shall within five (5) days after receipt of consent, close on the Site and Purchaser shall pay $1,800,000 to Sellers. The condition set forth in this Section 3.4.1.9 will be deemed to be satisfied as to a Site despite Sellers' failure to obtain the landlord's consent if Sellers are able to make the economic benefits of ownership available to Purchaser without the violation of a lease through a sublease, license or other such means, in each case reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Purchaser, and Sellers agree to continue using commercially reasonable efforts to secure such consent;
               3.4.1.10 Intentionally Omitted.
               3.4.1.11 Sellers shall have delivered to Purchaser a list of all USA Petroleum trade dress at the Sites suitable for hard rebranding no later than thirty days prior to Closing;
               3.4.1.12 The applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act (as defined in Section 14.4 below) and any extension thereof shall have terminated or expired, without a pending challenge to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have been authorized by applicable governmental authorities, including obtaining all necessary state approvals;
               3.4.1.13 Sellers shall have changed their corporate names to names that do not use the Acquired Intellectual Property (or any derivative thereof) and are otherwise reasonably acceptable to Purchaser;
               3.4.1.14 Sellers shall have delivered to Kinder Morgan SFPP a letter requesting that Kinder Morgan SFPP approve the assignment to Purchaser of all of Sellers' rights and interest in historic pipeline shipment and terminal throughput granted to and held by Sellers on the Kinder Morgan SFPP pipelines (used for shipper transportation rights including allocations and proration) associated with the volumes of petroleum products and ethanol attributable to the Assets, in a form reasonably acceptable to Purchaser;
               3.4.1.15 Purchaser shall have received written evidence reasonably satisfactory to it in form and substance that any partnership, joint venture or similar arrangement applicable to the Site identified as facility #879 on shall have been duly terminated on or before the Closing without liability to Purchaser;
Exhibit A
 
               3.4.1.16 Sellers shall have delivered to Purchaser a letter of credit of a bank reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser in the amount of FIVE MILLION DOLLARS ($5,000,000) drawable from time to time by Purchaser by tendering its certificate that Sellers have breached any covenant, representation and/or warranty in or under this Agreement, prior to, at or after the Closing that give rise to an indemnifiable claim under Article 31, subject to all limitations and restrictions under such Article 31, (collectively, the "Agreement Obligations") and that such breach remains uncured thirty (30) or more days after Purchaser has given Sellers written notice thereof and that the amount drawn, together with any prior draw(s), does not exceed Purchaser's good faith estimate of the damages to it and its Affiliates resulting from all such indemnifiable claims, and containing 10-year evergreen renewal provisions and other terms reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser; provided, however, that with respect to any individual proposed draw on the letter of credit by Purchaser in an amount under $100,000, Purchaser shall give Sellers notice thereof not less than 5 business days prior to any such draw and will not make such draw if Sellers wire transfer the entire amount of the proposed draw to Purchaser on or before the close of business on such 5 business day;
th
               3.4.1.17 Sellers shall have delivered to Purchaser, within ten (10) days after the Effective Date, profit and loss statements for the 36 months ended September 30, 2006 (the and such profit and loss statements shall not disclose any material inconsistency with the 18-month report heretofore delivered to Purchaser; and
"Financial Statements")
               3.4.1.18 To secure the Agreement Obligations of the Seller furnishing the same, one or more Sellers shall deliver to Purchaser at the Closing either (at Sellers' election) (i) deeds of trust in customary form (the providing a first lien to Purchaser on a property or properties (the with an aggregate value (as reasonably agreed between Sellers and Purchaser) of at least FIVE MILLION DOLLARS ($5,000,000) or (ii) deliver to Escrow for release to Purchaser at Closing as cash collateral cash in the amount of FIVE MILLION DOLLARS ($5,000,000) (the (either being referred to as the Sellers may from time to time substitute the Deeds of Trusts for the Funds or vice versa to satisfy the Security Amount. The priority of the Deeds of Trust, if delivered in lieu of the Funds, shall be evidenced by standard form ALTA title policies in the amount of the Security Amount, issued by the Title Company and paid for by Sellers, insuring that the Deeds of Trust are a first lien on the identified properties, subject to no exceptions that materially affect the use, value or marketability of such property. Following Closing, representatives of Purchaser and Sellers shall meet periodically to determine in good faith whether the Security Amount should be reduced and whether security in this amount is no longer necessary to secure the Agreement Obligations because some of Sellers' Agreement Obligations have expired or have been completed and the amount of the remaining Security Amount exceeds the then-estimated amount of Sellers' remaining Agreement Obligations, including the receipt of closure letters or no further action letters from any Agency with regard to the environmental conditions at the Sites pursuant to Article 7. Any such reduction shall be applied first to the Deeds of Trust and the Funds and then to the letter of credit. If the parties cannot mutually agree to a reduction of the Security Amount of the Deeds of Trust, the amount of the Funds or the amount of the letter of credit, then either party may elect to arbitrate such issue. Sellers may from time to time with Purchaser's prior written consent, which shall not unreasonably be withheld, substitute alternative security of a value sufficient so that the
"Deeds of Trust"),
"Secured Properties")
"Funds")
"Security Amount").
 
aggregate value of the Secured Properties is equal to or greater than the Security Amount. To the extent not already realized on or released and subject to all pending claims having been resolved and satisfied, Purchaser shall release any and all liens it may hold on the Secured Properties on the tenth anniversary of the Closing Date. For any year or portion thereof during which the letter of credit was outstanding, Purchaser shall pay the Sellers jointly, on or before January 31 of the following year, an amount equal to the out-of-pocket charges paid by Sellers for the issuance and/or maintenance of the letter of credit during the previous calendar year, but not to exceed an amount calculated at an annual rate of 1% of the average amount of the letter of credit outstanding during the previous calendar year.
          3.4.2 Closing shall not occur unless and until the following conditions precedent and contingencies have been satisfied or waived in writing by Sellers in Sellers' sole and absolute discretion:
Sellers' Conditions.
               3.4.2.1 All items required to be delivered by Purchaser into Escrow have been delivered to Escrow Holder pursuant to Section 3.2.2;
               3.4.2.2 On the Closing Date, Purchaser shall not be in material default in the performance of any covenant or agreement to be performed by Purchaser under this Agreement;
               3.4.2.3 On the Closing Date, all representations and warranties made by Purchaser in Article 6 shall be true and correct as if made on and as of the Closing Date;
               3.4.2.4 Sellers shall have received from Purchaser's counsel an opinion dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Sellers, that all necessary corporate action has been duly and validly taken on behalf of Purchaser for the execution and performance of this Agreement and all other agreements entered into or instruments delivered by Purchaser pursuant hereto;
               3.4.2.5 There shall not be in effect any order from a court or governmental authority having jurisdiction over the parties or the Assets barring the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement nor any litigation or proceeding by any federal or state governmental agency to restrain or prohibit the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and
               3.4.2.6 On the Closing Date, Purchaser shall pay Sellers the Purchase Price Balance.
     Upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent and the contingencies set forth in Section 3.4, Escrow Holder shall do the following:
3.5 Instructions Applicable to Closing.
          3.5.1 For each Fee Site, (i) cause the Grant Deed to be recorded in the Official Records of the county in which the Fee Site is located, and (ii) deliver to Purchaser a certified photocopy of the recorded Grant Deed;
 
          3.5.2 For each Leased Site, (i) deliver to Purchaser, Sellers' best copy of the Lease, and (ii) deliver one (1) fully executed counterpart original of the Lease Assignment each to Purchaser, Sellers and the lessor under the Lease;
          3.5.3 Deliver at least one (1) fully executed original of the Assignment and Assumption of Permits and Contracts, the Bill of Sale, the Assignment of Intangible Property, each to Purchaser and Sellers;
          3.5.4 Deliver to Purchaser the Title Policy (as defined in Section 8.2) applicable to such Site;
          3.5.5 Disburse the net debit or credit, as reflected on the settlement statement, to Sellers or Purchaser by reason of the proration of the credits and debits as provided for in this Agreement, as follows:
               3.5.5.1 to the extent that any Seller is a foreign person pursuant to Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and is not otherwise exempt from such section's withholding requirements, withhold the cash equivalent of ten percent (10%) of the Purchase Price (unless some lesser amount is authorized by the Internal Revenue Service);
               3.5.5.2 to the extent that any Seller is a non-California resident pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 18805 and 26131, and is not otherwise exempted from such sections withholding requirements, withhold the cash equivalent of three and one-third percent (3-1/3%) of the Purchase Price (unless some lesser amount is authorized by the Franchise Tax Board);
               3.5.5.3 calculate the amount of all items chargeable to the account of Sellers and Purchaser pursuant hereto to compile the net credit or debit; and
               3.5.5.4 deliver to Sellers or Purchaser as applicable the remaining portion of any funds deposited with Escrow Holder, such delivery location to be pursuant to instructions to be delivered by Sellers and Purchaser to Escrow Holder.
          3.5.6 Deliver to Purchaser and Sellers an appropriate settlement statement for such Closing.
     When the Closing has been completed, Escrow Holder shall (i) return the remaining balance, if any, of the funds deposited by Purchaser or Sellers to the applicable party entitled to such funds, pursuant to instructions to be delivered by Purchaser and Sellers to Escrow Holder, (ii) deliver to Purchaser the Section 1445 Affidavit, and (iii) deliver the Certificate to Purchaser or, if appropriate, to the California Franchise Tax Board.
3.6 Instructions upon Completion of Closing.
     PURCHASER AND SELLERS AGREE THAT THE ACTUAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY ATTORNEYS' FEES, LOST PROFITS AND OPPORTUNITY COSTS, FOR FAILURE TO CLOSE DUE TO PURCHASER'S MATERIAL
3.7 Liquidated Damages.
 
BREACH HEREUNDER WOULD BE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO MEASURE AND THAT THE EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT IS A REASONABLE ESTIMATE OF SUCH DAMAGES. IN THE EVENT THAT THE TRANSACTION FAILS TO CLOSE AS SET FORTH HEREIN DUE SOLELY TO A MATERIAL BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT BY PURCHASER, THIS AGREEMENT SHALL TERMINATE, ESCROW SHALL BE CANCELED AND SELLERS SHALL THEN, AND ONLY THEN, BE ENTITLED TO RETAIN THE EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT, TOGETHER WITH INTEREST THEREON AT THE ANNUAL RATE OF 5%, AS LIQUIDATED DAMAGES AND AS SELLERS' SOLE RIGHT TO DAMAGES OR OTHER RELIEF. IF CLOSING DOES NOT OCCUR FOR ANY OTHER REASON, SELLERS SHALL RETURN THE EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT, TOGETHER WITH INTEREST THEREON AT THE ANNUAL RATE OF 5%, TO PURCHASER WITHIN ONE (1) BUSINESS DAY OF RECEIPT OF A WRITTEN DEMAND FROM PURCHASER. IN SUCH EVENT, PURCHASER SHALL HAVE NO FURTHER OBLIGATION TO SELLERS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.
IF ANY SELLER HAS BREACHED THIS AGREEMENT, PURCHASER SHALL BE ENTITLED TO
(I) SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT, SELLERS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREEING THAT SUCH REMEDY IS APPROPRIATE AND THAT PURCHASER SHALL NOT BE REQUIRED TO INSTITUTE ARBITRATION PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 27, BUT SHALL HAVE THE RIGHT TO IMMEDIATELY FILE AN ACTION IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT TO OBTAIN SUCH SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE AND RELATED INJUNCTIVE RELIEF, OR (II) IF SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE CANNOT BE DELIVERED BY SELLER, AN ACTION FOR DAMAGES IN LIEU OF AN ACTION FOR SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE, PROVIDED, WITH RESPECT TO PURCHASER'S RIGHT TO ELECT TO SEEK MONETARY DAMAGES, PURCHASER AND SELLERS AGREE THAT THE ACTUAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY ATTORNEYS' FEES, LOST PROFITS AND OPPORTUNITY COSTS, FOR FAILURE OF THE TRANSACTION TO CLOSE DUE TO SELLERS' MATERIAL DEFAULT HEREUNDER WOULD BE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO MEASURE AND THAT THE AMOUNT OF FIVE MILLION DOLLARS ($5,000,000) IS A REASONABLE ESTIMATE OF SUCH DAMAGES AND PURCHASER SHALL BE ENTITLED TO SUCH $5,000,000 AS LIQUIDATED DAMAGES FROM SELLERS (IN ADDITION TO RECEIVING THE EARNEST MONEY DEPOSIT BACK FROM SELLERS) AND DAMAGES AGAINST SELLERS SHALL BE LIMITED TO SUCH $5,000,000.
     SELLERS AND PURCHASER FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THE PROVISIONS OF THE FOREGOING LIQUIDATED DAMAGES PROVISION AND BY THEIR INITIALS IMMEDIATELY BELOW AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ITS TERMS.
 
     Purchaser shall grant to Sellers a limited, nonexclusive, nontransferable (but sublicensable with the approval of Purchaser, not to be unreasonably withheld) royalty free, fully paid up license to use the Trademarks included in the Acquired Intellectual Property (the that are being used at certain retail sites owned by Sellers as of the Closing Date and not sold to Purchaser hereunder, as identified on Exhibit 1 to the Trademark License Agreement, (the ") for the period of time commencing on the Closing Date and ending on earlier of (i) with respect to the Retained Seller Site involved, the date on which a Seller sells or otherwise transfers, directly or indirectly, a Retained Seller Site to an unaffiliated third party or (ii) with respect to all Retained Seller Sites other than #106 in Brentwood, California and #2004 in Pacific Palisades, California, on the third anniversary of the Closing Date. The conditions and rights of such license are specified in the Trademark License Agreement attached hereto as Sellers shall maintain their own permits and other approvals for operating the Retained Seller Sites which display the Licensed Marks and shall visibly identify Sellers as the operator of the Retained Seller Sites.
4.1 Trademark License Agreement.
"Licensed Marks")
"Retained Seller
Sites
Exhibit Q.
     At any time and from time to time, Sellers will, without further consideration, take such further action and execute and deliver such further instruments and documents as may be reasonably requested by Purchaser in order to carry out the provisions and purposes of this Agreement including, without limitation, (a) to provide to Purchaser (and its authorized agents, attorneys and representatives) reasonable cooperation and assistance to effect the assignment and transfer of the Acquired Intellectual Property and the Acquired IT Assets, and (b) to execute all documents necessary to record such assignment with the relevant authorities in the United States and foreign jurisdictions including, without limitation, one or more assignments in respect of the Trademarks in the United States and registrations therefor, substantially in the forms attached as hereto.
4.2 Intellectual Property Assignments.
Exhibit R
     
4.3 Nonsolicitation of Employees.
          4.3.1 As a material inducement to Purchaser to enter into this Agreement and to provide Sellers the consideration described therein, each of the Sellers, John Moller ("") and the John Moller Living Trust (the "") hereby covenants and agrees that:
Moller
Moller Trust
               4.3.1.1 From the date hereof through the Closing, each of the Sellers, Moller and the Moller Trust hereby covenants and agrees that each Seller, Moller and the Moller Trust shall not, directly or indirectly, by offer of employment or otherwise, solicit or induce, directly or indirectly, any Station Employee (as defined in Section 16.1 below) to terminate his or her present position or become an employee of any Seller, Moller or the Moller Trust or an Affiliate of any Seller, Moller or the Moller Trust in a different position; and
               4.3.1.2 From the Closing and for a period of four (4) years from the Closing (the ""), each of the Sellers, Moller and the Moller Trust hereby covenants and agrees that, during the Covenant Period, each Seller, Moller and the Moller Trust
Covenant Period
 
shall not, directly or indirectly, by offer of employment or otherwise, solicit or induce, directly or indirectly, any employee of Purchaser or an Affiliate of Purchaser, or any person who was such an employee within the ninety (90) day period prior to such solicitation, inducement or offer of employment, to terminate his or her relationship with Purchaser or become an employee of any Seller, Moller or the Moller Trust or an Affiliate of any Seller, Moller or the Moller Trust.
          4.3.2 Each Seller, Moller and the Moller Trust acknowledges and recognizes that the operations of the Sites are conducted throughout the Territory, that Purchaser is investing substantial money, time and effort to acquire, maintain and develop the operation of the Sites, that Purchaser would not be doing so but for the covenants contained in this Agreement, and that such covenants are necessary in order to protect and maintain the proprietary interests, trade secrets and other legitimate business interests of Purchaser with respect to the acquired Sites and are reasonable in all respects. Each Seller, Moller and the Moller Trust hereby further acknowledges that the geographic scope and duration of the nonsolicitation/noninducement covenant set forth in this Section 4.3 is reasonable.
          4.3.3 It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this Agreement be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the law and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. Accordingly, if any term or provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any circumstance shall, in any jurisdiction and to any extent, be adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, prohibited or unenforceable, such term or provision shall be ineffective as to such jurisdiction to the extent of such invalidity, prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating or rendering unenforceable such term or provision in any other jurisdiction, the remaining terms and provisions of this Agreement or the application of such terms and provisions to circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or enforceable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such provision could be more narrowly drawn so as not to be invalid, prohibited or unenforceable in such jurisdiction, it shall, as to such jurisdiction, be so narrowly drawn, without invalidating the remaining provisions of this Agreement or affecting the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.
          4.3.4 Each party intends to and does hereby confer jurisdiction to enforce the covenants and other provisions contained in this Section 4.3 and Section 4.4 upon the courts of any jurisdiction within the geographic scope of such covenants or other provisions. If the courts of any one or more of such jurisdictions holds such covenants or other provisions wholly unenforceable by reason of the breadth of such scope or otherwise, it is the intention of each party that such determination not bar or in any way affect the rights of Purchaser to relief in the courts of any other jurisdiction within the geographic scope of such covenants or other provisions, as to breaches of such covenants or other provisions in any such other jurisdiction, such covenants or other provisions as they relate to each jurisdiction and geographic location being, for this purpose, severable into diverse and independent covenants and other provisions.
          4.3.5 Each Seller, Moller and the Moller Trust hereby agrees that a violation or attempted or threatened violation of the covenants or other provisions contained in Section 4.4, or any part thereof, by any Seller, Moller or the Moller Trust will cause irreparable injury to
 
Purchaser and the operations of the Sites, for which money damages would be inadequate, and that Purchaser shall be entitled, in addition to any other rights or remedies it may have, whether in law or in equity, to obtain an injunction enjoining and restraining each of the Sellers, Moller or the Moller Trust from violating or attempting or threatening to violate any provision of this Agreement, including the covenants contained in this Section 4.3 and Section 4.4.
     Each Seller, Moller and the Moller Trust hereby acknowledges and agrees that they have access to the trade secrets and Confidential Information (as defined below) of Sellers (the "Secrets") which information Sellers have spent considerable time, expense and effort to develop and keep confidential. The term "" includes, without limitation, existing as of the Closing (a) information not previously disclosed to the public or to the trade by Sellers' management with respect to Sellers' business plans or information not otherwise generally known or readily available to competitors or the public, (b) information regarding Sellers' operational strengths and weaknesses, (c) trade secrets and other intellectual property, systems, procedures, manuals, confidential reports, product price lists, marketing plans or business strategies, budgets and financial statements, research and development plans, product plans, training materials developed by Sellers, techniques and materials, methods of distribution, sales methods, sales proposals, pricing information, proprietary information relating to products and processes, descriptions and information concerning employees and (d) all data, information and materials related to Sellers products, concepts, ideas, proposals, inventions, formulas, technology, recruiting methodology, improvements, discoveries, developments, modifications, processes, data, techniques, software programs (including without limitation, object code, source code, flow charts, algorithms and related documentation), listings, routines, manuals, product specifications, proposed trademarks and trade names. Each Seller, Moller and the Moller Trust agrees at all times hereafter, to hold in strictest confidence, and not to use, or to disclose to any Person without written authorization from Purchaser, any Trade Secrets or Confidential Information, provided that this Section 4.4 shall not restrict Seller's continued internal use, on a confidential basis, of Trade Secrets or Confidential Information relevant to the operation of the Retained Seller Sites solely in connection with the operation of the Retained Seller Sites by a Seller or an Affiliate (as defined below) of a Seller. As used in this Agreement, the term "" means, with respect to a party, any individual or legal business entity that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, such party. The term "" (including the terms "" and "") as used in the preceding sentence means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of management and policies. Notwithstanding the terms of this Section 4.4, nothing herein shall be a restriction on any Seller, Moller or the Moller Trust to use for any purpose any information available to the general public or commonly known by competitors in the retail gasoline industry.
4.4 Protection of Trade Secrets and Confidential Information.
Trade
Confidential Information
Affiliate
control
controlled by
under common control with
     In order to induce Purchaser to enter into this Agreement, Sellers hereby jointly and severally represent and warrant to Purchaser as follows, it being understood, however, that no
 
representations or warranties as to environmental liabilities are given by Sellers pursuant to this Article 5, and that such environmental liabilities are governed by the terms of Article 7:
     . Each Seller is a corporation or limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of California (in the case of a corporation) or Delaware (in the case of a limited liability company, and, in the case of a limited liability company, is duly qualified as a foreign limited liability company in the State of California. Each Seller is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or limited liability company in each other state in which it is conducting business.
5.1 Organization
     . Each Seller has the power and authority under applicable law (a) to execute and deliver this Agreement and each agreement and instrument delivered or to be delivered by such Seller pursuant to this Agreement, and to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder and (b) to own or lease the Assets and to conduct its business thereon. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each agreement and instrument delivered or to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement by each Seller, and the consummation of the transactions provided for hereby and thereby, have been duly authorized and approved by all requisite corporate action of such Seller, including without limitation the requisite approval of each Seller's shareholders or members, as the case may be, and no other corporate act or proceeding on the part of each Seller or its Affiliates or shareholders is necessary to authorize the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or of such other agreements and instruments, or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby. This Agreement and each such agreement and instrument is, or upon its execution and delivery will be, legal, valid, binding and enforceable against each Seller in accordance with its respective terms, subject only to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium laws, or similar laws or equitable principles affecting or limiting the rights of contracting parties generally.
5.2 Authority; Enforceability
     . Other than with respect to (i) the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and (ii) as set forth on , no consent, waiver, approval, authorization, exemption, registration, license or declaration ("") of or by, or filing with, any governmental authority is required with respect to any Seller or any of its Affiliates in connection with (i) the execution, delivery or enforceability of this Agreement or any material agreement or instrument delivered pursuant to this Agreement by such Seller, or (ii) the consummation of any of the transactions provided for in this Agreement and in the other documents specified in clause (i), above.
5.3 Consents
Schedule 5.3
Consent
     . Except as set forth in and except for de minimis matters, the execution and delivery of this Agreement and each agreement and instrument delivered or to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement by each Seller, and the consummation of the transactions provided for hereby and thereby and the compliance by each Seller with any of the provisions hereof or thereof does not and will not (a) violate, or conflict with, or result in a breach of, any provisions of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in the creation of any lien upon any of the Assets under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of (i) the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of any Seller, or (ii) to any Seller's Knowledge (as defined in Section 5.25), any contract or other agreement,
5.4 No Breach
Schedule 5.4
 
instrument or obligation to which such Seller is a party, or by which any of the Assets or their operations otherwise are bound, or (b) to any Seller's Knowledge, violate any order, injunction, statute, rule or regulation, or (c) trigger any rights of purchase or any buy/sell or similar rights related to any of the Assets.
     . All of the Leases are valid, in full force and effect and enforceable in accordance with their terms, and to any Seller's Knowledge no material defaults by any Seller or, to any Seller's Knowledge, any other party to the Leases, exist with respect thereto. Except as set forth in each of the Leases may be assigned, subleased, licensed or otherwise transferred by Seller, subject, where applicable, only to the consent of the lessor thereunder. Sellers are the sole holders of fee simple title to each of the Fee Sites. To any Seller's Knowledge, Sellers have not knowingly requested, applied for, or given consent to any zoning variances or changes with respect to any of the Sites. To any Seller's Knowledge, the consummation of the transactions completed by this Agreement will not result in the termination of any applicable zoning, entitlement or variance now existing. Except as set forth on , no construction, rehabilitation, demolition or expansion at any of the Sites is currently on going or contemplated by Sellers. To any Seller's Knowledge, there is no existing or proposed plan to modify or realign any street or highway nor is there any existing, proposed or threatened condemnation or eminent domain proceeding that would result in the taking of all or part of any of the Sites. Sellers will not cause or permit, without the express written consent of Purchaser, any Lien to attach or affect any of the Sites at any time after the date of this Agreement that will remain in effect after Closing. Sellers have no liability or obligation for any brokerage fee or commission in respect of the Sites.
5.5 Real Property
Schedule 5.5,
Schedule 5.5
     . Set forth on is a general description of material Improvements, if any, that are leased to a Seller. Except as indicated on (a) all such leases, if any, are valid, in full force and effect and enforceable in accordance with their terms and (b) to any Seller's Knowledge, no material defaults by any Seller or, to any Seller's Knowledge, any other party to such leases, exist with respect thereto.
5.6 Leased Improvements
Exhibit S
Exhibit U,
     . Except as set forth in to any Seller's Knowledge, the Assets, Sellers' operation of business at and from the Assets and the sale of Assets and performance of other obligations under this Agreement do not violate in any material respect, any judgments, orders, injunctions, statutes, rules, regulations or other legal requirements applicable to, or required in connection with, the Assets, including without limitation the Petroleum Marketing and Practices Act, 15 U.S.C.A. sec. 2801 et seq., the California Franchise Investment Law, California Corporations Code sec. 31000 et seq. and the California Business and Professions Code Division 8, Chapters 5.5 (Franchise Relations Act), 7.5 (Franchises) and 7.8 (Franchise Dealers Fair Practices). Without limiting the foregoing, to any Seller's Knowledge, except as set forth on no Seller has received any written notice of violation which remains unresolved, of any Permit, judgment, order, injunction, statute, rule, regulation or other legal requirement from any governmental authority. The Purchase Price shall be subject to adjustment as set forth in
5.7 Compliance with Laws
Schedule 5.7,
Schedule 5.7,
Schedule 5.7.
 
     .
5.8 Contracts
          5.8.1 Within 15 days after the Effective Date, Seller will deliver, and the parties shall attach as a list reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Purchaser of all contracts and agreements, excluding any customary master service agreements and customary utility or similar service agreements which (in each case) are terminable upon notice without penalty, related to the operation of the Sites to which a Seller or any of its Affiliates is party (a) under which a Seller or any of its Affiliates have obtained materials or services in connection with the operation of business from the Sites and for which a Seller has spent in excess of $100,000 during calendar year 2006, or (b) by which, to any Seller's Knowledge, the Assets and their respective operations are bound; and to which such agreements will be assigned to Purchaser. Within twenty (20) days after the Effective Date, Sellers shall provide Purchaser with a list of the contracting entities under any master service agreements and copies of all utility and other similar service agreements.
Exhibit T,
          5.8.2 Except as set forth on (a) to any Seller's Knowledge, no Seller is in default under any of the Contracts listed on nor has any event occurred which, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a default by a Seller under any such Contract, and (b) to any Seller's Knowledge, no material defaults by any other party exist with respect to any of the Contracts listed on nor has any event occurred which, with the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a default by any other party under any such Contract.
Exhibit T,
Exhibit T,
Exhibit T,
     Within 15 days after the Effective Date, Seller will deliver, and the parties shall attach as a list reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Purchaser of all material Permits used by Sellers in the operation of the Sites. To any Seller's Knowledge, the Permits listed on are all of the material Permits required for the operation of the Sites. To any Seller's Knowledge, Sellers are not in material violation of any conditions that would cause a forfeiture or termination of one or more of the Permits and, without limiting the foregoing, except as set forth on Sellers have not received any written notice of violation of any Permit which remains unresolved.
5.9 Permits.
Exhibit G,
Exhibit G
Exhibit G,
     
5.10 Actions and Proceedings.
          5.10.1 Except as set forth on no Seller has received written notice of any legal action pending, and, to any Seller's Knowledge, no legal action is threatened, against any Seller or any of its Affiliates, whether or not the defense thereof or liability in respect thereof is covered by policies of insurance, involving or affecting any of the Assets or their respective operations.
Exhibit U,
          5.10.2 Except as set forth on no Seller has received written notice of any action, suit, proceeding in condemnation or eminent domain pending, and, to any Seller's Knowledge, no such action, suit or proceeding is threatened, seeking to condemn or acquire all or any material part of any of the Sites.
Exhibit U,
 
          5.10.3 Except as set forth on no Seller has received written notice of any action, suit, proceeding or claim pending, and, to any Seller's Knowledge, no such action, suit or proceeding is threatened, seeking to restrain or prohibit this Agreement.
Exhibit U,
     Except as described in to any Seller's Knowledge, there are no labor-related disputes of any kind asserted against any Seller, or to any Seller's Knowledge any prior owner of the Assets as to matters contained in (i) below, in connection with the operation of any of the Assets pending before or, to any Seller's Knowledge, threatened before, any federal, state or local court or agency. With respect to the Assets and except to the extent set forth in (i) there is no unfair labor practice charge or complaint against any Seller pending or, to any Seller's Knowledge, threatened, before the National Labor Relations Board or any other administrative or judicial body; (ii) there is no labor strike, slowdown or stoppage actually pending or, to any Seller's Knowledge, threatened against or affecting the Assets; (iii) to any Seller's Knowledge none of the operations of any of the Assets have experienced any material labor disputes or any material work stoppage due to labor disagreements within the past three (3) years; and (iv) no attempt to organize Employees (as defined in Article 16) has resulted in an election within the past three years or, to any Seller's Knowledge, is threatened with respect to the Assets. None of the Sites is now, nor at any time within the past three years has been, subject to any collective bargaining agreement, contract, letter of understanding or other similar arrangement with any labor union or organization.
5.11 Labor Matters.
Exhibit V,
Exhibit V,
     
5.12 Intellectual Property.
          5.12.1 To any Seller's Knowledge, and except as set forth on Sellers are the exclusive owners of the entire right, title and interest in the Acquired Intellectual Property and the Acquired IT Assets and have the right to transfer the Acquired Intellectual Property and the Acquired IT Assets free and clear of any Liens. Sellers have not transferred ownership of, or granted any exclusive license of or right to use, or authorized the retention of any exclusive rights to use or joint ownership of, any Acquired Intellectual Property or Acquired IT Assets to any other Person. All Acquired Intellectual Property and Acquired IT Assets will be fully transferable, alienable or licensable by Purchaser without restriction and without payment of any kind to any third party.
Schedule 5.12.1,
          5.12.2 sets forth a correct and complete description of all Registered Intellectual Property. means any Acquired Intellectual Property that is the subject of an application, certificate, filing, registration or other document issued by, filed with, or recorded by, any state, government or other public legal authority at any time. With respect to each such item of Registered Intellectual Property identified in (a) each item of Registered Intellectual Property is currently in compliance with all formal legal requirements (including payment of maintenance fees and proofs of use) and is valid, subsisting and enforceable and all necessary documents and certificates in connection with such Registered Intellectual Property have been filed with the relevant authorities; and (b) there are no actions that must be taken by Sellers within one hundred twenty (120) days of the Closing Date in order to obtain, maintain, perfect, preserve or renew any Registered Intellectual Property.
Schedule 5.12.2
"Registered Intellectual Property"
Schedule 5.12.2:
 
          5.12.3 To any Seller's Knowledge, the Acquired Intellectual Property does not infringe or otherwise violate any Intellectual Property (as defined below) or other right of a third party. To any Seller's Knowledge, the operation of the Sites and the Acquired Intellectual Property or use thereof, as currently conducted or used, or contemplated to be conducted or used, have not, do not and will not when conducted or used by Purchaser in substantially the same manner following the Closing, infringe or misappropriate any Intellectual Property right of any Person. To any Seller's Knowledge, no Person is engaging in any activity that infringes or violates the Acquired Intellectual Property. Sellers have taken reasonable steps in accordance with normal industry practice to maintain the confidentiality of the Trade Secrets included in Intellectual Property. For purposes hereof: means intellectual and similar property rights of every kind and nature that are being used, or held or developed for use, in the Assets, including all rights disclosed or embodied in all (i) copyrights, copyright registrations and applications and all other works of authorship including, without limitation, software (including object code and source code), firmware, documentation, designs, files, records, data, or otherwise, (ii) inventions, discoveries, improvements, and technology, (iii) proprietary and confidential information, trade secrets and know how, (iv) patents and patent applications and all divisions, continuations, continuations-in-part, renewals, reexaminations, reissuances and extensions of any of the foregoing (as applicable); and (v) Trademarks. means trademarks, service marks, trade dress, logos, trade names, corporate names, uniform resource locator ("URL") addresses, domain names and symbols, slogans, rights of publicity and privacy and other indicia of source or origin, including the goodwill of the business symbolized thereby or associated therewith, common law rights thereto, registrations and applications for registration thereof throughout the world, all rights therein provided by international treaties and conventions, and all other rights associated therewith.
"Intellectual Property"
"Trademarks"
          5.12.4 No action, suit, proceeding, hearing, investigation, charge, governmental or court order, complaint, claim or demand is pending or, to any Seller's Knowledge, threatened against the Seller with respect to any of the Acquired Intellectual Property. To any Seller's Knowledge, there are no facts or circumstances that would render any Acquired Intellectual Property invalid or unenforceable. There are no pending or, to any Seller's Knowledge, threatened, interferences, oppositions, reissues, reexaminations, or other proceedings involving any of the Registered Intellectual Property.
          5.12.5 To any Seller's Knowledge, Sellers are not in breach of, nor has Sellers failed to perform under, any of the Seller IP Agreements and, to Sellers' Knowledge, no other party to any such contract, license or agreement is in breach thereof or has failed to perform thereunder. The consummation of the transactions contemplated in this Agreement will neither violate nor result in the breach, modification, termination, suspension or change in any party's rights (or give the other party thereto the right to cause any of the foregoing) with respect to any of the Seller IP Agreements. As of the Closing Date, there will be no accrued or unsatisfied liabilities, royalties or obligations under the Seller IP Agreements, except as set forth on
Schedule 5.12.5.
     The Inventory to be sold and transferred to Purchaser at the Closing will include all of the retail petroleum products at the Sites and saleable merchandise in the stores on the Sites as of the Closing.
5.13 Inventory.
 
     All negotiations relating to this Agreement, the agreements and instruments delivered, or to be delivered, pursuant to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been carried on without the intervention of any person acting on behalf of Sellers or their Affiliates in such manner as to give rise to any valid claim against Purchaser for any broker's or finder's fee or similar compensation in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby. Sellers shall indemnify and defend Purchaser and its Affiliates against, and shall hold them harmless from, any loss, cost or liability, including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and costs of litigation, arising out of claims by any person alleging a right to a broker's or finder's fee or similar compensation related to or based upon any actions of any Seller or its Affiliates.
5.14 Brokers.
     Each Seller is solvent and is not in the hands of a receiver. No application of receivership regarding it is pending, and no proceedings are pending by or against it for bankruptcy or reorganization in any state or federal court.
5.15 Solvency.
     Since their acquisition by Sellers, the Assets have only been used, operated and held by Sellers in the ordinary course of business and consistent with the manner in which Sellers use, operate and hold similar assets.
5.16 Absence of Certain Changes.
     Sellers have timely filed all Tax Returns (or obtained appropriate extensions) that Sellers were required to file; all such Tax Returns were correct and complete in all respects and were prepared in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; and all Taxes owed by Sellers (whether or not shown or required to be shown on any Tax Return) relating to the Assets have been paid. No adjustment relating to any of such Returns, or to the taxes shown therein, has been proposed by any taxing authority which remains pending, and there is no suit or proceeding pending or, to any Seller's Knowledge, threatened with respect to the assessment or collection of taxes against Sellers which relate to the Assets or their operation by Sellers, or any prior owner of the Assets, prior to the Closing. There are no tax liens against any of the Assets, other than liens for property taxes which are not yet delinquent, nor are there any taxes due against any of the Assets except for current property taxes which are not yet delinquent. There are no outstanding agreements extending the statutory period of limitation applicable to any claim for, or the period for the collection or assessment of, Taxes with respect to the operation of the Assets. With respect to the operation of the Assets, Sellers have duly and timely withheld or collected all Taxes required to be withheld or collected and paid over to the appropriate taxing authorities all amounts required to be so withheld or collected and paid over for all periods under all applicable laws. As used in this Agreement, or means all United States federal, state, local or foreign income, profits, estimated, gross receipts, windfall profits, severance, property, intangible property, occupation, production, sales, use, license, excise, emergency excise, franchise, capital gains, capital stock, employment, withholding, transfer, stamp, payroll, goods and services, value added, alternative or add-on minimum tax, or any other tax, custom, duty or governmental fee, or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, together with any interest, penalties, fines, related liabilities or additions to tax that may become payable in respect thereof imposed by any taxing authority. As used in this Agreement, shall mean any return, declaration, report or similar statement required to be filed with respect any Taxes (including any attached schedules),
5.17 Returns.
Tax"
"Taxes"
"Tax Return"
 
including, without limitation, any information return, claim or refund, amended return and declaration of estimated Tax.
     No Seller is a "foreign person" as defined in Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
5.18 Foreign Person.
      To any Seller's Knowledge and except as set forth in and except for any exceptions which are borne by Purchaser and/or Sellers in compliance with Article 8, each Seller has good, marketable and indefeasible title to, or a valid leasehold interest in, all of the Assets it purports to own or lease, (after giving effect to the exclusion of any Site(s) pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement) except for Inventory sold, consumed or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business in compliance with Sections 14.1 and 14.2 and consistent with past practices, free and clear of any liens, mortgages, charges, pledges, security interests, burdens, easements, rights of way, zoning ordinances, mineral exceptions, rights of first offer, rights of first refusal, purchase options or other encumbrances of any nature whatsoever (""). Nothing in this Section 5.19 shall modify Sellers' obligations or liabilities under the Grant Deeds.
5.19 Title to Assets.
Schedule 5.19,
Liens
      The Assets constitute all of the assets and rights (real, personal, tangible, intangible or mixed) reasonably required for Purchaser to conduct the operations of the Sites as currently conducted.
5.20 Sufficiency of Assets.
     
5.21 Affiliated Transactions; Shared Assets or Services.
          5.21.1 lists all transactions or contracts relating to the Sites with Affiliates of any Seller since March 31, 2005 in an amount of $25,000 or more. To any Seller's Knowledge, all transactions with Affiliates of any Sellers have been made or entered into on terms that are no less favorable to Sellers than those that could have been obtained from any unaffiliated third party.
Schedule 5.21
          5.21.2 There is no material asset, tangible or intangible, or service necessary for the operation of the Sites as they are presently conducted, the use of which is shared by Sellers and any Affiliate of Sellers, except as set forth on Purchaser will not have any ongoing obligation or liability after the Closing with respect to the transactions and services set forth on
Schedule 5.21.
Schedule 5.21.
     The Financial Statements (as defined in Section 3.4.1.17) have been and will be (i) prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, and (ii) are complete and correct, and fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the operations of the Sites, as of the dates and for the periods indicated therein.
5.22 Financial Statements.
     All documents or supplemental documents submitted or to be submitted to Purchaser for Purchaser's approval pursuant to this Agreement (other than Closing and other documents to be executed by Sellers pursuant to this Agreement) are documents received by Sellers from others or compiled by Sellers from available records. To any Seller's Knowledge, there is no material error, misrepresentation or inconsistency in any of such
5.23 Documents.
 
documents or supplemental documents, provided however, the individuals of Sellers who are identified in have not independently verified, and have no obligation to independently investigate or verify, the accuracy or completeness of such documents or supplemental documents. Although Sellers have provided and will provide Purchaser with documents which it believes are relevant for consideration of the purchase of the Assets, none of Sellers nor their employees, agents or representatives makes any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness with respect to any such documents or supplemental documents delivered by Sellers to Purchaser.
Exhibit W
     No Site other than the Site identified as facility #879 on is subject to a partnership, joint venture or other similar arrangement.
5.24 Status of Sites.
Exhibit A
     As used in this Agreement, the phrase or words of similar import shall mean the actual knowledge of one or more of the indicated individuals listed on of the matter in question or of other matters which would indicate the existence of the matter in question to a reasonable individual, but without any duty of investigation.
5.25 Sellers' Knowledge.
"to Sellers' Knowledge", "to any Seller's Knowledge"
Exhibit W
     Those representations made in Article 7 and Sections 16.5.2 and 23.2 shall be representations under this Article 5 the same as if such representations were set forth in this Article 5.
5.26 Other Representations.
     In order to induce Sellers to enter into this Agreement, Purchaser hereby warrants and represents to Sellers that:
     Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of California.
6.1 Organization.
     Purchaser has the power and authority under applicable law (a) to execute and deliver this Agreement and each agreement and instrument delivered, or to be delivered, by Purchaser pursuant to this Agreement, and to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder and (b) to own or lease and operate the Assets and to conduct its business thereon. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each agreement and instrument delivered, or to be delivered, pursuant to this Agreement by Purchaser, and the consummation of the transactions provided for hereby and thereby, have been duly authorized and approved by all requisite corporate action of Purchaser, and no other corporate act or proceeding on the part of Purchaser or its shareholders is necessary to authorize the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or of such other agreements and instruments, or of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby. Each of this Agreement and such agreements and instruments is, or upon its execution and delivery will be, legal, valid, binding and enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with its respective terms, subject only to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium laws, or similar laws or equitable principles affecting or limiting the rights of contracting parties generally.
6.2 Authority; Enforceability.
 
     Except as set forth herein or on including, without limitation, for obtaining any and all necessary governmental approvals for the purchase of the Assets or expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period, no material consent of or by, or material filing with, any other person is required with respect to Purchaser in connection with (a) the execution, delivery or enforceability of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument delivered or to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement by Purchaser, or (b) the consummation of any of the transactions provided in this Agreement by Purchaser (except for the approval of Purchaser's lenders to the financing Purchaser will utilize to complete the funding of the Purchase Price) and the other documents specified in clause (a).
6.3 Consents.
Exhibit X,
     The execution and delivery of this Agreement and each agreement and instrument delivered or to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement by Purchaser, and the consummation of the transactions provided for hereby and thereby and the compliance by Purchaser with any of the provisions hereof or thereof does not and will not (a) violate, or conflict with, or result in a breach of any provisions of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the termination of, or accelerate the performance required under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of (i) the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of Purchaser or (ii) to Purchaser's Knowledge (as defined in Section 6.9), any agreement, instrument or obligation to which Purchaser is a party or by which a material part of its assets or operations otherwise are bound, or (b) to Purchaser's Knowledge, violate any order, injunction, statute, rule or regulation.
6.4 No Breach.
     To Purchaser's Knowledge, no action, suit, proceeding or claim is pending or threatened seeking to restrain or prohibit this Agreement.
6.5 Actions and Proceedings.
     All negotiations relating to this Agreement, the agreements and instruments delivered, or to be delivered, pursuant to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been carried on without the intervention of any person acting on behalf of Purchaser in such manner as to give rise to any valid claim against Sellers for any broker's or finder's fee or similar compensation in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby. Purchaser shall indemnify and defend Sellers and their Affiliates against, and shall hold them harmless from, any loss, cost or liability, including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and costs of litigation, arising out of claims by any person alleging a right to a broker's or finder's fee or similar compensation based upon, or related to, any actions of Purchaser.
6.6 Brokers.
     Purchaser is solvent and is not in the hands of a receiver. No application of receivership is pending, and no proceedings are pending by or against it for bankruptcy or reorganization in any state or federal court. Purchaser will have sufficient funds to deliver the Purchase Price at Closing as contemplated in this Agreement.
6.7 Solvency; Funds.
     Purchaser has made its own independent analysis and judgment of the commercial potential and usefulness of the Assets and is not relying upon any information from Sellers regarding prospective operations of the Sites.
6.8 Independent Decision.
     As used in this Agreement, the phrase or words of similar import shall mean the actual knowledge of one or more of the
6.9 Purchaser's Knowledge.
"to Purchaser's Knowledge"
 
individuals listed in of the matter in question or of other matters which would indicate the existence of the matter in question to a reasonable individual, but without any duty of investigation.
Exhibit Y
     For purposes of this Agreement, the terms described below shall have the following meanings:
7.1 Definitions.
          7.1.1 means any federal, state or local governmental authority with jurisdiction over the environmental compliance of any particular Site, including, without limitation, the United States Environmental Protection Agency or the local fire department.
"Agency"
          7.1.2 means the concentration(s) of Hazardous Materials present at, under, upon or migrating to or from each Site as established in accordance with Section 7.2.
"Baseline Condition"
          7.1.3 or means all actions including but not limited to Remediation required by an Agency with respect to Environmental Conditions resulting from Hazardous Materials existing on, under or about any Site as of the Closing Date, whether or not such Hazardous Materials were generated or released by Sellers, Sellers' predecessors in interest or any third parties other than Purchaser, or otherwise resulted from the operations of Sellers or Sellers' predecessors in interest from such Site. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller's Corrective Action for Tesoro Sites (as defined in Section 7.1.12) shall be limited to Environmental Conditions arising in the time period from December 11, 2002 through the Closing Date.
"Corrective Action"
"Corrective Actions"
          7.1.4 means (a) any Release on, under or emanating from any Site, whether originating on-site or off-site, or (b) any activity, inactivity or operation occurring on or off of any Site that could require Remediation.
"Environmental Condition"
          7.1.5 means any and all federal, state or local Laws (including common law), rules, orders, regulations, statutes, ordinances, codes, guidelines enforced by Agencies, administrative orders, or requirements of any governmental authority or quasi-governmental authority regulating or imposing standards of liability, standards of conduct or standards of remediation with respect to protection of public health or environmental media (including, without limitation, soil, surface water, ground water, stream sediments or air), including, without limitation, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Air Act, and applicable state analogues.
"Environmental Laws"
          7.1.6 means any and all permits, approvals, licenses, registrations, certificates, plans, contingency plans, spill prevention control and
"Environmental Permits"
 
countermeasure plans, consent agreements, consent orders, stipulations and authorizations that are required by or issued pursuant to Environmental Laws.
          7.1.7 means the applicable clean up levels to protect human health and the environment imposed under Environmental Laws by the Agency with jurisdiction over a Site.
"Environmental Standards"
          7.1.8 means any chemical, substance, compound or material that is listed, regulated or defined as a "hazardous material," "hazardous waste," "hazardous substance," "solid waste," "toxic substance," "contaminant" or "pollutant" or words of similar meaning and import, or as otherwise regulated by any Agency or governmental authority in, under or pursuant to any Environmental Law, including, without limitation, petroleum, petroleum products (including oxygenates), hydrocarbons, fuel oil, derivatives and degradation products of petroleum products or fuel oil, petroleum waste, waste oil and polychlorinated biphenyls ().
"Hazardous Materials"
"PCBs"
          7.1.9 means any release, spill, leak, emission, discharge, deposit, pumping, pouring, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, disposing, dumping or migration of Hazardous Materials into any indoor or outdoor environmental media (including, without limitation, soil, surface waters, ground waters, stream sediments and air), including the movement of Hazardous Materials through or in any environmental media either on-site or off-site. Release includes, without limitation, the abandonment of barrels, containers or other closed receptacles containing Hazardous Materials.
"Release"
          7.1.10 means all actions required by an Agency pursuant to any Environmental Laws to ensure the attainment of Environmental Standards at any Site, including, without limitation, all actions required by an Agency to: (a) mitigate, treat or remediate Hazardous Materials in the indoor or outdoor environment on-site of the Site or off- site of the Site if emanating from the Site as required by an Agency under applicable Environmental Laws; (b) perform pre-remedial studies and investigations and post-remedial monitoring and care or other assessments or monitoring as required under applicable Environmental Laws; or (c) respond to any government requests for information or documents in any way relating to mitigation, treatment or remediation or potential mitigation, treatment or remediation of Hazardous Materials in the indoor or outdoor environment pursuant to Environmental Laws. Remediation also means all actions required by an Agency to ensure the attainment of Environmental Standards at any Site including all actions required by an Agency to control any current Release of Hazardous Materials from the equipment used by Sellers or Sellers' Remediation Consultant as required by an Agency under applicable Environmental Laws.
"Remediation"
          7.1.11means a Release required to be reported to an Agency under the Environmental Laws.
"Reportable Release"
          7.1.12 means the Sites listed on with a 3000 series facility identification number.
"Tesoro Sites"
Exhibit A
 
     The Baseline Condition at each Site shall be established as set forth in this Section 7.2.
7.2 Establishment of Baseline Condition.
          7.2.1 An is a Site where Sellers have environmental reports or data from January 1, 2004 or later that provide sufficient information to establish the Baseline Condition for the Site. A newly-constructed Site completed after January 1, 2004 shall also constitute an "Assessed Site."
Assessed Sites.
"Assessed Site"
               7.2.1.1 Within 21 days of the Effective Date, Sellers shall provide Purchaser with a list of Assessed Sites and access to and the right to make copies of all environmental reports and data Sellers intend to rely on to establish the Baseline Condition for each Assessed Site. Within 21 days of Purchaser's receipt of this information, Sellers and Purchaser shall meet to determine the Baseline Condition for each Assessed Site. Should the parties reasonably dispute whether such information exists to adequately characterize an Assessed Site, the parties shall attempt to resolve any disagreement consistent with the terms of Section 7.4.2. To the extent additional work is required to adequately characterize an Assessed Site, the Assessed Site shall be considered an Unassessed Site and the parties shall proceed with such work as set forth in Section 7.2.2 below. Any Site assessed from January 1, 2004 or later using the protocol of Section 7.2.2.1 shall be deemed an Assessed Site.
          7.2.2 An is a Site where Sellers do not have environmental reports or data from January 1, 2004 or later that provide sufficient information to establish the Baseline Condition for the Site.
Unassessed Sites.
"Unassessed Site"
               7.2.2.1 Within 21 days of the Effective Date, Sellers shall provide Purchaser with a list of Unassessed Sites. Within 60 days of the meeting provided for in Section 7.2.1.1, unless the parties otherwise agree that no assessment is needed as to any Unassessed Site, Sellers shall cause an independent, qualified and properly licensed environmental consulting firm reasonably acceptable to Purchaser (the to conduct and complete environmental site assessments of Environmental Conditions at each Unassessed Site in accordance with the protocol set forth in (the prepared under a Site-specific workplan reasonably acceptable to Purchaser and Sellers consistent with the Environmental Protocol (each an "Environmental Site Assessment"), and prepare environmental reports for the benefit of Sellers and Purchaser setting forth the results of the Environmental Site Assessment. Such Site-specific workplan shall not unreasonably disrupt operations at the Site in question. All costs and expenses related to the Environmental Site Assessments and the preparation of the environmental reports and/or data shall be borne by Sellers. Sellers and Purchaser shall have equal access to all information developed by the Environmental Consultant and shall each receive two copies of all environmental reports and/or data. All environmental reports and/or data shall be completed and provided to Purchaser at least 14 days prior to the Closing Date. The environmental reports and/or data may be relied on by both Sellers and Purchaser. Purchaser and Sellers shall have 14 days following receipt of all environmental reports and/or data to review the environmental reports and/or data. Should Purchaser and/or Sellers contest or question any findings in any environmental report and/or data, they shall notify the other in writing of such concern(s) with three (3) days of receipt of all environmental reports and/or
"Environmental Consultant")
Schedule 7.2.2.1
"Environmental Protocol"),
 
data. If the parties are unable to resolve the concerns, they shall attempt to resolve any disagreement consistent with the terms of Section 7.4.2. The Baseline Condition for an Unassessed Site shall be the concentration(s) of Hazardous Materials as documented in the environmental report and/or data prepared pursuant to this Section 7.2.2.1 or as otherwise established following dispute resolution except that the Baseline Condition for an Assessed Site which became an Unassessed Site because additional work was needed to adequately characterize the Site shall be the concentration of Hazardous Materials as documented in the environmental report and/or data prepared pursuant to this Section 7.2.2.1 and the concentration of Hazardous Materials as documented in the environmental report(s) and/or data provided pursuant to Section 7.2.1.1.
          7.2.3 Notwithstanding anything provided for in Section 7.2, the Baseline Condition for each Site shall include the presence in any amount of the oxygenates methyl tertiary butyl ether (""), tertiary butyl alcohol (""), diisopropyl ether (""), ethyl tertiary butyl ether (""), and tertiary-amyl methyl ether ("") (including degradation products of these oxygenates) at, under, upon or migrating to or from any of the Site regardless of whether the presence of such oxygenates is suspected, known, discovered or confirmed prior to or after the Closing Date; provided, however, to the extent any of these oxygenates are used in any fuel product sold by Purchaser or its successors at any of the Sites after the Closing, this Section 7.2.3 shall not be applicable to automatically establish the Baseline Condition for any such Site or automatically allocate responsibility for the Site between the Parties. This Section 7.2.3 shall not affect Sellers' obligations under this Agreement with respect to any such oxygenates or their degradation products which are included in any report and/or data used to establish a Baseline Condition.
MTBE
TBA
DIPE
ETBE
TAME
     If any Site presently has any Environmental Conditions or if the work undertaken to establish the Baseline Condition for a Site reveals any Environmental Conditions, Sellers shall retain an independent, qualified and properly licensed environmental consulting firm (which may but need not be the Environmental Consultant) and, if necessary, an engineer and environmental contractor (collectively, the to develop and implement the Remediation and Sellers shall remain responsible for all Corrective Action, subject to each of the following:
7.3 Corrective Actions.
"Remediation Consultant")
          7.3.1 All Corrective Action shall be at the expense of Sellers.
          7.3.2 At Purchaser's expense, Purchaser shall have the right to have its Remediation Consultant(s) present during Seller's Corrective Action at a Site.
          7.3.3 All Corrective Action shall be taken in a prompt and diligent fashion, subject to Sellers' obligation to take reasonable steps to minimize adverse impacts to Purchaser's operation of the Assets.
          7.3.4 Sellers shall be entitled to reasonable access to the Sites in order to effect the Corrective Action without any access fee or similar expense being imposed by Purchaser on Seller.
 
          7.3.5 Sellers shall keep Purchaser informed of the progress of the Corrective Actions, by providing Purchaser electronic copies of all reports submitted to the Agency while performing Corrective Actions.
          7.3.5 Sellers shall effect Remediation to the levels required by the Agency, using any approved methodology (including risk-based closure). When such Remediation is complete as to a Site under the standards allowed by the Agency (provided Sellers do not cause a restriction to the deed or other notation to title without the express written consent of Purchaser), Sellers shall submit a written report to the Agency seeking site closure (the Sellers' Corrective Actions as to the Site in question shall be deemed complete, and Sellers' Corrective Actions with regard to such Site shall be discharged the date (the that is the earlier of (i) Sellers' receipt of written approval of the Closure Report by the Agency, or (ii) Sellers' receipt of a "no further action letter" from the Agency related to said Closure Report.
"Closure Report").
"Site Completion Date")
          7.3.6 Notwithstanding anything in this Section 7.3, Purchaser is responsible to address Environmental Conditions arising prior to December 12, 2002 at the Tesoro Sites that require Corrective Action.
     During the course of Sellers' performance of Corrective Action at each Site, Purchaser shall maintain inventory and tank and line inspection, maintenance and repair records for such Site as required to comply with any and all Environmental Laws. Sellers shall have the right to review these records as Sellers deem necessary so as to be assured of the integrity of Purchaser's tank and line system at the Site.
7.4 Integrity Assurance Records.
          7.4.1 The parties acknowledge that the criteria for allocation of Environmental Conditions between the parties, whether for settlement or by arbitration, shall be as follows:
Allocation of Responsibility.
     Sellers shall have responsibility for any Environmental Conditions other than those resulting from any Reportable Release by Purchaser or for any of the obligations under Section 7.3.6 Purchaser shall have responsibility for any Environmental Condition resulting from a Reportable Release by Purchaser and for any of the obligations under Section 7.3.6 If the evidence establishes that Sellers' Environmental Conditions and Purchaser's Environmental Conditions have co-mingled then (i) other than with regard to the Tesoro Sites, Purchaser's responsibility for Environmental Conditions shall be limited only to any additional costs greater than what Sellers would have incurred in responding to and remediating Sellers' then existing Environmental Conditions or (ii) with regard to the Tesoro Sites, Seller's responsibility for Environmental Conditions shall be limited only to any additional costs greater than what Purchaser would have incurred in responding to then existing Environmental Conditions.
("Sellers' Environmental Conditions").
("Purchaser's Environmental Conditions").
          7.4.2 Attempts to resolve disputes as to establishing Baseline Condition at any Site as set forth in Section 7.2, allocation of Environmental Condition responsibility as set forth in Section 7.4.1, and costs estimates as set forth in Section 7.6.2 shall proceed in the following order.
Dispute Resolution.
 
               7.4.2.1
Cooperative Resolution.
     The parties shall first attempt to resolve any disputes through cooperative resolution. The parties shall exchange the following information:
                    (i) Inventory reconciliation records.
                    (ii) Underground Tank System, as defined under the California Health and Safety Code, testing results.
                    (iii) Operations and maintenance information on the Underground Tank System.
                    (iv) Leak detection and monitoring equipment-testing data.
                    (v) Operations and maintenance information on the leak detection and monitoring systems.
                    (vi) All data collected or generated as a result of either party's environmental investigation, including soil and groundwater samples.
                    (vii) All data concerning the volume of any release.
                    (viii) All data concerning the presence of oxygenates, including MTBE, degradation products of oxygenates and ethanol.
                    (ix) Any unauthorized release reports to the Agency.
                    (x) Any "no further action letters" from the Agency.
     Such exchange of evidence shall be completed within 45 days of the demand by Purchaser and Sellers delivering one (1) complete set of copies to the other, along with a certification signed by an officer of such party certifying the delivered documents are complete or noticing the reasons why requesting documents were not delivered. The parties shall not be obligated to exchange their independent analysis, conclusions or recommendations prepared internally or by consultants with a view towards use in arbitration.
     The parties may thereafter, within a reasonable amount of time, agree to meet and attempt in good faith to settle the allocation of responsibility for the Site's Environmental Conditions. All efforts pursuant to this section shall be deemed to be confidential settlement discussions and shall not be admitted in any subsequent proceedings, arbitration or other action. If no resolution is reached, either party may in writing notify the other of its election to arbitrate the disputed issues pursuant to Article 27, except as such procedure may be modified by Section 7.4.2.2
 
               7.4.2.2
Arbitration.
                    7.5.4.2.1 If the parties are not able to resolve a dispute under Article 7 pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, then either party may make a demand for arbitration in writing.
                    7.5.4.2.2 The selection of an arbitrator shall be subject to Article 27, except the parties shall attempt to mutually select or cause to be appointed an arbitrator from JAMS who is sufficiently experienced in arbitrating disputes concerning soil and groundwater contamination. If, after appointment of the arbitrator and after an initial conference with the arbitrator and the parties, either party reasonably believes the arbitrator would benefit from the technical advice of a knowledgeable, independent environmental consultant, such party may demand the appointment of such independent environmental consultant to act as a technical consultant for the arbitrator. Thereafter, the parties shall mutually select an independent environmental consultant and, if they are unable, the arbitrator may use its discretion to select a technical consultant. The arbitrator shall decide the scope and use of the technical consultant. The parties shall initially advance the cost of the technical consultant equally. Upon conclusion of the arbitration, the arbitrator shall award the recovery of the costs of the technical consultant to the party who substantially prevails on the disputed issues.
     
7.5 UST Fund.
          7.5.1 California
               7.5.1.1 Sellers and Purchaser have interests in Sites covered under this Agreement for which Sellers are an eligible or potentially eligible claimant under the California Underground Storage Tank Cleanup Fund established by the Barry Keene Underground Storage Tank Cleanup Trust Fund Act of 1989 or If mutually agreed to in writing after the Closing, Sellers and Purchaser can participate in Corrective Action for any of these Sites, on behalf of whatever company is the Fund eligible claimant at the time. For example, costs of Corrective Action for a Site paid by Purchaser while Sellers are the Claimant for said Site are to be considered paid on behalf of Sellers with any Fund proceeds reimbursed to Purchaser upon Fund reimbursement.
("the Fund"
"Fund").
               7.5.1.2 Sellers and Purchaser agree to proceed with Fund assignment and reimbursement as set forth in this Section 7.5.1.2.
                    (a)  lists and provides claim numbers for all Sites covered under this Agreement for which Sellers have approved claims for reimbursement from the Fund. Sellers and Purchaser agree that Sellers will continue to conduct Corrective Action at the Sites listed on at Sellers' own expense and will continue to own rights to the Existing Claim(s) and will, at Sellers' own expense, administer and pursue reimbursement under the Existing Claim(s). If Sellers and Purchaser agree in writing that Purchaser shall assume Corrective Action at a Site listed on or if an Agency shall require Purchaser to assume Corrective Action at a Site listed on Sellers will assign Sellers' reimbursement rights (excluding the right to receive reimbursement from Tesoro for any Seller incurred expenses which are reimbursed from
Sites With Existing UST Cleanup Fund Claims:
Exhibit Z
("Existing Claim(s)")
Exhibit Z
Exhibit Z,
Exhibit Z,
 
the Fund) for any or all of the Existing Claim(s) for such Site ("Assignment for Existing Claims") subject to the approval of the Fund and in accordance with Section 7.5.1.3. To exercise its Assignment for Existing Claims option, Sellers and Purchaser shall notify the Fund in writing of its desire to immediately be assigned the Existing Claim(s) and provide a copy of the relevant portions of the Agreement, with intent to keep such portions of the Agreement held Business Confidential by the Fund. The Assignment of any Existing Claim(s) shall become effective upon issue of written approval by the Fund that the associated Letter of Commitment(s) has been reassigned per Purchaser's request. Purchaser agrees to notify Sellers in advance of exercising the Assignment of Existing Claims option and copy Sellers on all relevant correspondence with the Fund.
                    (b)  lists all Sites in California covered under this Agreement for which Sellers have applied for reimbursement from the Fund but have not received approval for reimbursement from the Fund Sellers and Purchaser agree that Sellers will continue to conduct Corrective Action at the Sites listed on at Sellers' own expense and will continue to own rights to the Pending Claim(s) and will, at Sellers' own expense, administer and pursue reimbursement under the Pending Claim(s). If Sellers and Purchaser agree in writing that Purchaser shall assume Corrective Action at a Site listed on or if an Agency shall require Purchaser to assume Corrective Action at a Site listed on Sellers will assign Sellers' reimbursement rights (excluding the right to receive reimbursement from Tesoro for any Seller incurred expenses which are reimbursed from the Fund) for any or all of the Pending Claim(s) for such Site subject to the approval of the Fund and in accordance with Section 7.5.1.3. To exercise the Assignment of Pending Claims option, Sellers and Purchaser shall notify the Fund in writing of its desire to immediately be assigned the Pending Claim(s) and provide a copy of the relevant portions of the Agreement, with intent to keep such portions of the Agreement held Business Confidential by the Fund. The Assignment of any Pending Claim(s) shall become effective upon issue of written approval by the Fund that the associated Letter of Commitment(s) has been assigned per Purchaser's request. Purchaser agrees to notify Sellers in advance of exercising the Assignment of Pending Claims option and copy Sellers on all relevant correspondence with the Fund.
Sites Pending UST Cleanup Fund Claim Approval:
Exhibit Z
("Pending Claim(s)").
Exhibit Z
Exhibit Z,
Exhibit Z,
("Assignment of Pending Claims")
                    (c)  lists all Sites in California covered under this Agreement for which Sellers have not applied for reimbursement from the Fund. For Sites listed on where a Release, whether known or unknown, occurred prior to the Closing Date for which Sellers have not yet applied for reimbursement from the Fund, Sellers will conduct Corrective Action at the Sites at Sellers' own expense and will pursue a claim with the Fund and assume any and all rights to reimbursement of eligible costs from the Fund If Sellers and Purchaser agree in writing that Purchaser shall assume Corrective Action at a Site listed on or if an Agency shall require Purchaser to assume Corrective Action at a Site listed on as appropriate Seller will pursue Future Claim Rights. To the extent Sellers pursue Future Claim Rights and Purchaser performs the Corrective Action, either because the parties agree or because an Agency requires Purchaser to assume Corrective Action at a Site listed on Sellers will assign Sellers' reimbursement rights (excluding the right to receive reimbursement from Tesoro for any Seller incurred expenses which are reimbursed from the Fund) for any or all of
Sites With Future UST Cleanup Fund Claims:
Exhibit Z
Exhibit Z,
("Future Claim Rights").
Exhibit Z,
Exhibit Z,
Exhibit Z,
 
the Future Claim Rights for such Site ("") subject to the approval of the Fund and in accordance with Section 7.5.1.3. To exercise the Assignment of Future Claim Rights option, Sellers and Purchaser shall notify the Fund in writing of its desire to immediately be assigned the Future Claim Rights and provide a copy of the relevant portions of the Agreement, with intent to keep such portions of the Agreement held Business Confidential by the Fund. The assignment of any Future Claim Rights shall become effective upon issue of written approval and that the associated Letter of Commitment(s) by the Fund has been assigned per Purchaser's request. Purchaser agrees to notify Sellers in advance of exercising the Assignment of Future Claim Rights option and copy Sellers on all relevant correspondence with the Fund.
Assignment of Future Claim Rights
               7.5.1.3 Any and all Assignments of Existing Claims, Pending Claims or Future Claim Rights (collectively, "Claim Assignment") to Purchaser pursuant to this Section 7.5 are intended to be in compliance with the terms specified in the Board Order entitled Order WQ 2000-06-UST ("the Order"). Consistent with the Order, Sellers will maintain liability for Corrective Action irrespective of Claim Assignment(s). Purchaser covenants prior to performing any remediation to reasonably consider and analyze the estimated cost and expenses of utilizing the proposed remediation method as compared to alternative methods in order to preserve the reimbursement funds available under the Fund. Further consistent with the Order and the Fund's most current published guidelines for assignment, the terms of any such Claim Assignment are as set forth in Sections 7.5.1.3(a) and 7.5.1.3(b) wherein the term "Assignor" pertains to Sellers and "Assignee" pertains to Purchaser.
Assignment Terms:
In the Matter of Petition of Lake Publishing Company,
                    (a) Assignor agrees to assign the following rights to reimbursement:
                    (b) Rights to the Assignee to Receive Reimbursement After the Effective Date of the Assignment.
 
          7.5.2 States Other Than California. Sellers and Purchaser have interests in non-California Sites covered under this Agreement for which Sellers are an eligible or potentially eligible claimant under applicable underground storage tank fund reimbursement laws. Sellers and Purchaser agree that Sellers, at Sellers' own expense, are responsible and liable for any Corrective Action at these Sites for Releases, whether known or unknown, that occurred prior to the Closing Date. At Sellers' own expense, Sellers will administer and pursue reimbursement for such Corrective Action work under applicable underground storage tank fund reimbursement laws. Sellers and Purchaser further agree that as of the Closing Date, Purchaser has the option to assume Corrective Action at Sites covered by this Section 7.5.2 to the extent allowed by the applicable law. If Purchaser assumes Corrective Action at a Site covered under this Section 7.5.2, Sellers will take all appropriate action necessary to ensure Purchaser obtains Sellers' reimbursement rights subject to the requirements of the applicable underground storage tank fund reimbursement laws and to the extent allowed by applicable law. Sellers and Purchaser may participate in Corrective Action for any of these Sites, as the eligible underground storage tank fund claimant. For example, costs of Corrective Action for a Site paid by Purchaser while Sellers are the Claimant for said Site are to be considered paid on behalf of Sellers with any proceeds reimbursed to Purchaser upon reimbursement.
 
     
7.6 Terminal.
          7.6.1 Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Purchaser shall have the right at Purchaser's sole expense to conduct and/or engage environmental consultants to conduct an environmental, health and safety audit of the Terminal in accordance with applicable Environmental Laws and ASTM or other Standards, as agreed upon in writing by the parties (the Such Terminal EH&S Audit shall include an estimate of the costs to correct or address any non-compliance identified in the course of the audit (the Any fines and penalties payable as a result of conditions or practices identified in the Terminal EH&S Audit shall be the sole responsibility of and shall be promptly paid in full by the Sellers, and shall not constitute Estimated Terminal Liabilities or Actual Terminal Liabilities for purposes of this Agreement. The Terminal EH&S Audit shall be completed at least 60 days prior to the Closing Date and Purchaser and Seller shall concurrently receive a copy of the EH&S Audit. Following Sellers' receipt of the Terminal EH&S Audit, the parties agree to meet and confer to review the Terminal EH&S Audit results.
Terminal EH & S Audit.
"Terminal EH&S Audit").
"Estimated Terminal Liabilities").
          7.6.2The Baseline Condition for the Terminal shall be established pursuant to Section 7.2. If Corrective Action is required at the Terminal, costs for such Corrective Action shall be quantified by the Environmental Consultant retained pursuant to Section 7.2 and provided to both parties at least 60 days prior to the Closing Date. Should the parties dispute the Environmental Consultant's cost estimate for such Corrective Action, they shall attempt to resolve any disagreement consistent with the terms of Section 7.4.2.
Terminal Baseline Condition.
          7.6.3 To the extent the sum of the actual costs (i) to correct or address any non-compliance identified in the course of the Terminal EH&S Audit and (ii) to address Corrective Action for the Terminal (collectively, the is equal to or less than $250,000, Purchaser shall bear such costs. To the extent Actual Terminal Audit and Baseline Costs exceed $250,000, the Sellers shall bear such costs in excess of $250,000.
"Actual Terminal Audit and Baseline Costs")
          7.6.4 If the sum of (i) Estimated Terminal Liabilities and (ii) the costs to address Corrective Action for the Terminal as established by the Environmental Consultant or following the dispute resolution procedures exceeds $500,000, either Purchaser or the Sellers may elect to remove the Terminal from the Assets sold under this Agreement, with a reduction in the Purchase Price of $5,000,000, and Section 7.6.3 shall not apply.
     Sellers shall defend, protect (with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser), indemnify and hold harmless Purchaser, its parent, subsidiaries and Affiliates and their respective officers, employees, attorneys, business invitees, guests, customers, contractors and agents from and against all claims, damages (excluding exemplary or punitive damages and damages for lost profits), losses, costs (including Remediation Costs), expenses and liabilities, to include property damage and personal injury (including death) (and including, but not limited to, all attorneys' fees, fines, penalties, and court costs and expert witness fees and costs) which arise out of or are in any way connected with (a) the presence of Hazardous Materials which first became situated on, under or about each Site before the Closing
7.7 Sellers' Indemnity.
 
Date, (b) any violation of Environmental Laws applicable to each Site which results from Hazardous Materials located on such Site before the Closing Date, or (c) any violation of any Environmental Laws relating to the operation of the Sites prior to the Closing Date (each, a Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller's duty to defend, protect, indemnify and hold harmless as set forth in the proceeding sentence for Tesoro Sites shall be limited to the time period from December 11, 2002 through the Closing Date. Except for third-party claims related to gasoline additives or gasoline oxygenates listed in Section 7.2.3 for which there shall be no Indemnity Cutoff Date as defined below, Seller's Indemnity under this Article 7 as to each Site shall be limited to the lesser period of either (i) ten (10) years from the Closing Date or (ii) five (5) years after the Site Completion Date (the greater period being the unless prior to the Indemnity Cutoff Date, (i) Purchaser notifies Seller of a Purchaser Indemnity Claim, or (ii) Seller is actively indemnifying Purchaser for a Purchaser Indemnity Claim. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 7.7, Seller's obligation to perform Corrective Action at any Site shall be discharged in accordance with Section 7.3. The obligations of Sellers under this Section 7.7 are in addition to the obligations of Sellers under the other provisions of this Article 7.
"Purchaser Indemnity Claim").
"Indemnity Cutoff Date");
     Purchaser shall defend, protect (with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Sellers), indemnify and hold harmless Sellers, their its parent, subsidiaries and Affiliates and their respective officers, employees, attorneys, business invitees, guests, customers, contractors and agents from and against all claims, damages (excluding exemplary or punitive damages and damages for lost profits), losses, costs, expenses and liabilities, to include property damage and personal injury (including death) (and including, but not limited to, all attorneys' fees, fines, penalties, and court costs and expert witness fees and costs) which arise out of or are in any way connected with (i) the presence of Hazardous Materials which first become situated on, under or about each Site after the Closing Date, or (ii) any violation of Environmental Laws applicable to each Site which results from Hazardous Materials that first come to be located on the Site after the Closing Date. The obligations of Purchaser under this Section 7.8 are in addition to the obligations of Purchaser under the other provisions of this Article 7. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Article 7, including Section 7.8, shall negate Purchaser's obligations, including indemnity, under the Sale and Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions for Tesoro Northern California Marketing Assets entered into as of October 31, 2002 between Tesoro Refining and Marketing Company and USA Petroleum Corporation.
7.8 Purchaser's Indemnity.
     This Article 7 shall survive the Closing Date. Each party shall bind its successors and assigns and any tenants, operators or licensees to the terms and conditions in this Article 7.
7.9 Survival.
     
8.1 Title Commitments and Permitted Exceptions.
          8.1.1 Sellers shall use its good faith, diligent efforts to cause First American Title Insurance Company (the to issue a title commitment for each Site,
"Title Company")
 
together with legible copies of all documents referred to therein within 15 days after the Effective Date. In addition, Sellers shall use its good faith, diligent efforts to deliver to Purchaser an ALTA survey for each Site ("") within 60 days after the Effective Date.
("PTR")
Survey
          8.1.2 On or before thirty (30) days after the date of delivery of each PTR, Purchaser shall have the right to notify Sellers and Escrow Holder, in writing (the "Notice"), of all items reflected in each of the PTRs that Purchaser reasonably believes will adversely affect the business operations of the applicable Site for use as a gas station, truck stop or petroleum products terminal, as the case may be, or constitute a lien on such Site for amounts payable which are not subject to proration pursuant to Section 21.3, (each, an Such negative effect on such business operations and/or lien is herein referred to as the Purchaser's Notice shall include reasonably detailed information and supporting documents concerning the basis of the Title Value Impact. No later than five (5) days after timely delivery of the last Notice of Adverse Title Exception for all of the Sites, Purchaser and Seller will meet and confer (either in person or via telephonic conference) to discuss the Notices and the Adverse Title Exceptions (the "Title Meeting").
"Adverse Title Exception").
"Title Value Impact."
               8.1.2.1 Notwithstanding Section 8.1.2 above, Purchaser shall have no right to raise any Adverse Title Exceptions which existed on or before December 11, 2002 on any of the Tesoro Sites (as defined in Section 7.1.12) and Sellers shall have no obligation to cure or remedy any such Adverse Title Exceptions on those Sites. As to any such Adverse Title Exceptions existing on those Sites as of December 11, 2002, Purchaser shall be accepting such Adverse Title Exceptions in an "as is" condition.
               8.1.3 Purchaser agrees to bear the burden of any Title Value Impact of all Adverse Title Exceptions applicable to a single Site, by either (at Purchaser's election) (i) accepting such Site without remedying such Adverse Title Exceptions and/or (ii) bearing the cost of remedying such Adverse Title Exceptions, up to $30,000 per Site, and the Sellers agree to bear the burden of any Title Value Impact of all Adverse Title Exceptions applicable to a single Site which is in excess of such initial $30,000, by either (at Sellers' election) (i) accepting a dollar-for-dollar adjustment to the Purchase Price at Closing, and/or (ii) bearing the cost of remedying such Adverse Title Exceptions, up to $30,000 per Site in excess of Purchaser's $30,000. Either Party may remedy any Adverse Title Exception(s) by causing the Title Company to remove or delete the Adverse Title Exception(s) from the PTR or by endorsement or otherwise causing the Title Company to insure the Adverse Title Exception(s). All of Sellers' and Purchaser's above elections are subject in each case to the following limitations:
               8.1.3.1 If the aggregate Title Value Impact of all Adverse Title Exceptions applicable to a Site exceeds $60,000, then either Purchaser or Sellers may, at their sole discretion, within five (5) days of the Title Meeting, by written notice to the other Party, elect to delete such Site from the Assets, and the Purchase Price will be adjusted to remove the fair market value (to be established as set forth in Section 8.1.4) that such Site would have if there were no Adverse Title Exceptions applicable to such Site (the of such Site). Upon deletion of any Site pursuant to this Section 8.1.3.1 or Section 8.1.3.2 below, neither Party will have any obligation to the other Party concerning such Site and the Site shall be treated as if it was never included as an Asset to this Agreement.
single
"Fair Market Value"
 
               8.1.3.2 In addition to the rights under Section 8.1.3.1 above, if the burden that would be borne by either Purchaser, on the one hand, or all of the Sellers, on the other hand, pursuant to Section 8.1.3 for all Sites exceeds $600,000, the Party that would otherwise bear such excess burden shall have the right, at their sole discretion, within five (5) days of the Title Meeting, by written notice to the other Party, to select one Site to be deleted which is affected by the Adverse Title Exceptions. If after such first deletion there still remains an aggregate burden in excess of $600,000, then the Parties will take turns in selecting the next Site to be deleted, starting with the Party that did not select the first Site to be deleted, until such burden has been reduced to or below $600,000 (unless the parties agree to another method of selecting the Site(s) to be deleted), and the Purchase Price will be adjusted to remove the Fair Market Value of such deleted Site(s).
aggregate
          8.1.4 The Parties will use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to agree on the Title Value Impact of the Adverse Title Exceptions applicable to any single Site and, if a Site is deleted pursuant to this Section 8.1, to agree on its Fair Market Value. The Parties hereby agree that the Terminal has a Fair Market Value of $5,000,000. If the parties cannot agree on such Title Value Impact or Fair Market Value of any Site, then for Closing purposes only, the Parties agree to establish a tentative Title Value Impact and Fair Market Value. Unless the parties otherwise agree, the tentative Fair Market Value of a deleted Site will be $1,800,000. Notwithstanding the tentative determination to allow Closing to proceed without delay on account of the disagreement, either Purchaser or Sellers may refer the dispute for binding determination by a single appraiser experienced in the valuation of petroleum retail facilities mutually agreed by the Parties or, if they are unable to agree on such appraiser, such an appraiser appointed by the presiding officer of the Los Angeles office of JAMS/Endispute. If the appraiser determines different Title Value Impact and Fair Market Value of each Site than what the Parties had tentatively established for the Title Value Impact and Fair Market Value, the appropriate party shall promptly pay the other party the corresponding adjustment amount. No determination by the appraiser shall change the inclusion or deletion of any Site unless the parties otherwise agree.
          8.1.5 Any deeds of trust or mortgages recorded against or securing the Assets, and all prepayment fees or expenses owed to the beneficiaries thereof, shall be paid in full by Sellers prior to or concurrently with the Closing and all other monetary Liens shall be removed by Sellers prior to or at the Closing.
     At the Closing, Sellers shall cause Title Company to issue, as to each of the Sites, an ALTA extended coverage owner's policy of title insurance (the in the amount of the portion of the Purchase Price allocated to the Site as agreed upon by the parties insuring Purchaser that, as of the date of the Closing, Purchaser is vested with fee simple title (as to Fee Sites) or a leasehold estate under the applicable Lease (as to Leased Sites) subject only to installments of real property taxes and other governmental assessments not delinquent and to the Permitted Exceptions. Sellers shall pay 80%, and Purchaser shall pay 20%, of the Title Policy premium for ALTA extended coverage, including any curative endorsements. If Purchaser desires noncurative endorsement(s) beyond ALTA extended coverage, Purchaser shall pay 100% of the incremental cost of such endorsement(s).
8.2 Owner or Leasehold Policies of Title Insurance.
"Title Policy")
 
     
9.1 Casualty or Condemnation.
          9.1.1 In the event that, prior to the Closing Date, all or any portion of any Site is damaged or destroyed by fire or other casualty (a or taken by condemnation or eminent domain or by agreement in lieu thereof with any person or entity authorized to exercise such rights (a Sellers shall promptly notify Purchaser thereof.
"Casualty")
"Taking"),
          9.1.2 If, in the good faith estimation of Purchaser, a Casualty will cost more than ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($100,000) to repair, or cannot be repaired within thirty days following the occurrence of the damage Purchaser may, at its option, (a) if Purchaser reasonably believes that reconstruction and/or repair will require 12 or more months to complete, elect to delete the Site subject to such casualty from the Assets, or (b) elect to proceed with the Closing and have all insurance proceeds payable by reason of such damage or destruction assigned to and paid to Purchaser or (c) elect to proceed with the Closing and deduct Purchaser's reasonable estimate of the cost to repair or the reduction in market value from the Purchase Price and, in such case, Purchaser will have no right to insurance proceeds. In the event of damage or destruction costing less than $100,000 to repair, Sellers shall either effect the full repair of the same prior to the Closing or the Purchase Price applicable to the Site in question shall be reduced by the full amount necessary to effect such repair. If the parties cannot agree on the amount necessary to effect the repair and deduct from the Purchase Price, they shall retain a mutually agreed third party to establish such repair amount, and shall share equally the expense of such third party. The parties agree that the determination by such third party of the amount necessary to effect the repair and the deduction from the Purchase Price shall be deemed final by the parties hereto, however, if the parties are not able to mutually agree upon such third party, such amount and deduction shall be determined by means of the arbitration provisions of Article 27. Furthermore, if the repair amount is not agreed or established by two (2) days prior to Closing, the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) shall be deducted from the Purchase Price and when such repair amount is determined, either by agreement or by use of a third party, Purchaser shall immediately pay to Sellers the difference, if any, between the repair amount and $100,000. In the event that after Closing, the repair amount is determined to be in excess of $100,000, Sellers shall immediately pay to Purchaser the amount over $100,000.
          9.1.3 In the event a Taking is commenced or threatened against all of a Site, such Site shall be deleted from the Assets. In the event a Taking relates to only a portion of a Site, it shall not be excluded from the Assets, but Purchaser may, at its option (a) deduct from the Purchase Price Purchaser's good faith estimate of the loss in value to such Site resulting from such partial Taking, or (b) have all condemnation proceeds payable by reason of such Taking assigned to and paid to Purchaser.
          9.1.4 If a Site, or Sites, is/are deleted from the Assets pursuant to the provisions of this Section 9.1, shall be appropriately amended, all real and personal property, including all Improvements, Appurtenances, Intangible Property, Books and Records and Inventory, associated with such Site(s) shall be Excluded Property of the type described in
Exhibit A
 
Section 1.2, and the Purchase Price shall be reduced by the amount of ONE MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($1,800,000) per Site(s). Immediately after the Closing, the parties shall confer on the actual value of the deleted Sites and if they are unable to agree, either party can commence arbitration for determination of said values. For each deleted Site that the arbitration results in a determination or the parties agree that the value was greater than $1,800,000, Sellers shall immediately pay Purchaser the difference between $1,800,000 and the value determined in arbitration. For each deleted Site that the arbitration results in a determination or the parties agree that the value was less than $1,800,000, Purchaser shall immediately pay Sellers the difference between $1,800,000 and the value determined in arbitration.
     . Subject to this Article 9, Sellers shall retain the risk of loss or damage with respect to each of the Assets until title passes, which shall occur at the Closing.
9.2 Risk of Loss
If either Sellers or Purchaser discovers on or before the Closing that any representation or warranty made by it or the other was or becomes not true and correct in any material respect, it shall so notify the other in writing. The representations and warranties made in this Agreement shall be deemed to be modified by any matter contained in such notice. In the case of any such change in the representations or warranties by Sellers, (a) if the cumulative changes so made would adversely affect the fair market value of the Assets as currently operated by ONE MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000) or more, Purchaser may object thereto by written notice to Sellers within ten (10) business days after receipt of the notice and (b) if the cumulative changes so made would adversely affect the fair market value of the Assets as currently operated by TWENTY-SEVEN MILLION SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($27,700,000) or more, Purchaser and Sellers shall each have the right to terminate this Agreement. If such objection notice is not given within the ten business day period, or the cumulative changes do not have such adverse effect, then such change shall not give rise to any right or remedy. If such objection notice is timely given and the effect of the cumulative changes on the operations of any Site or the adverse affect on the fair market value of the Assets exceeds such $1,000,000 amount, and Sellers determine that they cannot cure such adverse effect prior to the Closing applicable to the Site(s) in question by using commercially reasonable efforts, then the parties shall negotiate in good faith a reduction of the Purchase Price to fairly reflect the impact of the adverse change on the fair market value of the Assets. In the event that the parties are unable to agree on a reduction of the Purchase Price prior to the Closing, then the parties agree that either party shall have the right to elect either to (i) unless the Site has been deleted by either party pursuant to subparagraph (ii) below, submit the matter (that is, the amount that the Purchase Price should be reduced to reflect the diminution of the value of the Assets) to arbitration under Article 27 for resolution after the Closing or (ii) delete the Site(s) in question from the Assets, and the Purchase Price shall be reduced at the Closing for each such Site in the amount of ONE MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($1,800,000); provided, further, in such event the parties hereto shall use their best efforts to reach an agreement on the amount that the Purchase Price should be reduced based on the value of the deleted Site(s) and if the parties hereto are unable to
 
agree, either party may submit the matter to arbitration pursuant to Article 27 of the Agreement. In this event, if the arbitrator determines that any or all of the deleted Sites has a value of greater than $1,800,000 per Site, Sellers shall immediately pay Purchaser the amount of the difference for each such Site. However, if the arbitrator determines that any or all of the deleted Sites has a value of less than $1,800,000 per Site, Purchaser shall immediately pay Sellers the amount of the difference for each such Site (up to a maximum amount of $1,800,000 per Site).
     Sellers shall retain originals of any records regarding the Assets for which it has any business, technical, tax, environmental or legal need, and Purchaser may make copies of such retained originals from time to time at Purchaser's request before or after the Closing. To the extent that those records, or any other information made available to Purchaser before or after the Closing, contain proprietary business or technical information of Sellers or its Affiliates, Purchaser agrees to hold such records in confidence and limit their use to the Assets or as otherwise required by law or as necessary to enforce Purchaser's rights under this Agreement.
11.1 Sellers' Rights to Records.
     Purchaser and Sellers shall not destroy or otherwise dispose of any records acquired or retained hereunder for a period of five (5) years following the Closing Date (except as to tax records, for which the period shall be seven (7) years and except as to environmental records, for which the period shall be ten (10) years) or such longer period as is required by applicable regulations, laws, statutes, or court orders, except upon 30 days' prior written notice by the Purchaser or Sellers to the other offering to ship such records to the other at the notifying party's or parties' cost and the other party's or parties' declining of such offer. During the specified period, Purchaser and Seller shall make such records available to the other or its authorized representatives for any business, legal or technical need in a manner which does not unreasonably interfere with the record holder's business operations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Sellers shall consult and cooperate with Purchaser in preparing the business personal property tax statements (Form 571-1) to be filed by Sellers with respect to the Assets owned during 2007, and provide Purchaser with copies of such statements, together with the workpapers and asset listings relating to such statements.
11.2 Preservation of Records.
     Purchaser shall afford duly authorized representatives of Sellers, and other duly authorized prior owners, reasonable access to the employees and the Sites after the Closing with respect to any legal, technical, environmental or operational matter relating to (a) Sellers' obligations under this Agreement, (b) the operation of the Sites before the Closing, and (c) Sellers' removal of any Excluded Property from the Sites; provided in each case that Sellers, or the other prior owner, as the case may be, gives Purchaser reasonable prior written notice, and provided further that such access does not unreasonably interfere with Purchaser's normal operations. Sellers shall indemnify, defend (with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser),
 
protect and hold Purchaser and the Assets harmless from and against any and all loss, cost, damage, expense or liability arising out of the exercise by Sellers of the access rights granted in this Article. It is understood and agreed that Sellers shall remove all Excluded Property from the Sites within thirty (30) days after Closing.
     . From and after the Effective Date, Purchaser shall have the right, personally or through agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors and lenders, at Purchaser's expense, to access the Sites and to inspect the same and all records maintained at the Sites, or at Sellers' other offices, and to conduct such tests as Purchaser deems reasonably appropriate. Without limiting the foregoing, Purchaser shall have the right to inspect the major equipment at the Sites, including, but not limited to, product dispensers, pumps, card readers, air compressors, lifts, convenience store coolers, and air conditioners (collectively, If Purchaser reasonably determines from its inspections that any of the Major Equipment is non-operational, Purchaser shall notify Sellers in writing prior to the Closing Date. Subject to Sellers' right to reimbursement under Section 13.2, Sellers, at Sellers' option, shall repair or replace such items noted as non-operational with items of equivalent utility, value and quality, at Sellers' expense prior to the Closing Date.
13.1 Access to Assets
"Major Equipment").
     In the event that, following the Closing, Purchaser determines that Major Equipment is missing or previously identified repairs or replacements have not been made pursuant to Section 13.1, and Purchaser delivers written notice of the same to Sellers not later than fourteen (14) days after the Closing, Sellers shall repair or replace such Major Equipment at Sellers' sole cost and expense. If Purchaser does not notify Sellers of any Major Equipment missing or repair not made pursuant to Section 13.1 within fourteen (14) days after the Closing in writing, Sellers shall not be obligated to replace or repair any Major Equipment. Purchaser shall reimburse Sellers up to $250,000 in the aggregate for Sellers' costs and expenses resulting from Sellers' repairs or replacements on Major Equipment for which notice has been given by Purchaser in compliance with Section 13.1 and this Section 13.2.
13.2 Post Closing Inspection of Assets.
     . Purchaser shall have the right, after the Effective Date, personally or through agents, employees, contractors, or subcontractors, to enter the Sites, at Purchaser's expense and at such times as are reasonably acceptable to Sellers following request to Sellers, to install telephone lines and other equipment, as needed to effect an orderly transition of operations after the Closing. Purchaser shall not unreasonably interfere with existing operations on the Sites. In the event that the Closing does not occur and Purchaser has installed equipment on any Site in accordance with this Section 13.3, Purchaser shall have the right, at Purchaser's option: (a) to remove the equipment installed by Purchaser and restore the Site to its original condition at Purchaser's sole cost; or (b) to transfer to Sellers for no consideration, without warranty, express or implied, title to any equipment installed by Purchaser, after which Sellers shall be solely responsible therefor.
13.3 Purchaser's Right to Install Equipment on Sites
 
     Each entry by Purchaser or its representatives onto the Sites shall be at Purchaser's sole risk, and Purchaser shall indemnify, defend, protect (with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Sellers) and hold Sellers and its Affiliates harmless from property damage or personal injury arising out of the exercise by Purchaser of the access rights granted in this Article 13.
13.4 Purchaser's Entry Shall be at Purchaser's Sole Risk.
     NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING, PURCHASER AGREES THAT IT CANNOT AND WILL NOT RELY ON ANY STATEMENT MADE DURING ITS ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED PURSUANT TO THIS ARTICLE UNLESS SUCH STATEMENT IS MADE BY AN OFFICER OF A SELLER OR IS REDUCED TO WRITING AND INCORPORATED IN THIS AGREEMENT BY AMENDMENT.
13.5 NO RELIANCE.
     Except as contemplated in, or provided for by this Agreement or as required by any applicable law, from the Effective Date until the Closing, Sellers agrees and covenants that (a) the business operations of the Assets shall be conducted only in the ordinary course of business, consistent with its past practice, including the performance of routine repairs and maintenance in accordance with normal schedules and sound management practice, and (b) without limiting the foregoing, Sellers shall not (i) sell, mortgage, or otherwise transfer or convey any portion of the Assets other than the sale of Inventory in the ordinary course of business consistent with previous practice, (ii) except in the ordinary course and consistent with past practice in the conduct of the business operations of the Assets, amend, modify, terminate or suspend any of such operations (except in immaterial respects); (iii) except in the ordinary course and consistent with its past practice in the conduct of such operations, waive or relinquish any right (except in immaterial respects) under any Lease, Contract, Permit or applicable law, (iv) enter into any material service, management or other contract relating to the Assets outside the ordinary course of business, which will survive the Closing without the prior written consent of Purchaser, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, (v) permit or suffer to exist any encumbrance, charge or lien to be placed or claimed upon or against the Assets unless such encumbrance, charge or lien has been previously approved in writing by Purchaser or unless such monetary encumbrance, charge or lien will be removed by Sellers prior to the Closing, (vi) hire any employees to work on operations of the Sites outside of hires in the ordinary course of business, (vii) amend in any material respect, when taken as a whole, any Lease or Contract or any other material contract or agreement related to the Assets or the operations of the Sites or terminate any Lease or Contract or any other material contract or agreement before the expiration of the term thereof, other than to the extent any such Contract or material contract or agreement terminates or is terminable pursuant to its terms in the ordinary course of business, or (viii) enter into any Lease or Contract or any other material contract related to the Assets or the operations of the Sites that will survive the Closing.
14.1 General.
     With respect to the Assets, between the Effective Date and the Closing Date, Sellers shall not permanently close any of the service stations on the Sites, without Purchaser's previous written approval. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sellers
14.2 Operation Pending Closing.
 
may close any service station temporarily to repair or rebuild the improvements therein. Sellers covenant to use reasonable commercial efforts to maintain the current operations on, and the repair and maintenance of, the Sites between the Effective Date and the Closing; provided, moreover, Sellers covenants to continue to utilize its same pricing structures to remain similarly competitive in the respective marketplaces. Sellers shall operate the Assets and conduct the Sellers' operation of business at and from the Assets without violating in any material respect, any judgments, orders, injunctions, statutes, rules, regulations or other legal requirements applicable to, or required in connection with, the Assets, including the Petroleum Marketing and Practices Act, 15 U.S.C.A. sec. 2801 et seq., the California Franchise Investment Law, California Corporations Code sec. 31000 et seq. and the California Business and Professions Code Division 8, Chapters 5.5 (Franchise Relations Act), 7.5 (Franchises) and 7.8 (Franchise Dealers Fair Practices).
     . From and after the Effective Date, and for so long as this Agreement is in effect, Sellers shall not (i) market the Assets to any third party, (ii) facilitate and/or cooperate with any due diligence of the Assets by any third party or (iii) engage in any negotiations for the sale of the Assets to any third party.
14.3 No Further Marketing of Assets
     The consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement is subject to the pre-merger notification requirements of Section 7A of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C.  18a) as enacted by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the ). Sellers and Purchaser shall cooperate and promptly undertake all filings and other actions as may reasonably be required to comply with such requirements. Both parties shall use their best efforts to assure that such filings are made no later than 30 days after the execution of this Agreement. The Purchaser and Sellers shall cooperate in responding to any requests for information from any federal or state agency reviewing the transaction and shall cooperate with respect to meetings with any agency. Purchaser and Sellers shall notify each other orally or in writing of agency meetings with respect to the transaction as well as the topics to be discussed at such meeting as promptly as practical after the scheduling of such meeting, and for agency meetings which both Purchaser and Sellers are invited to attend, the parties will cooperate with respect to such meeting. Neither Party shall attend any meetings with an agency without a representative of the other Party unless the agency requests such a private meeting. Purchaser shall pay all Hart-Scott-Rodino Act filing fees for the Parties. Purchaser and Sellers (subject to reimbursement as set forth below) shall each pay all of their respective legal and consultant expenses relating to federal or state agency review of the transaction, including communications with the staff and attendance at hearings and related matters, provided that Purchaser will reimburse Sellers for up to ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($100,000) of Sellers' reasonable out-of-pocket expense for fees and expenses of Sellers' outside counsel and outside consultants provided that such counsel and/or consultants have been approved by Purchaser. Without limitation on the generality of Article 3, Purchaser may either terminate this Agreement or elect to contest such litigation, upon written notice to Sellers, if the Federal Trade Commission or the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice or the Office of the Attorney General of any State authorizes the filing of a suit to challenge the transactions contemplated hereby. If litigation is initiated by any government agency, and Purchaser elects to contest such litigation, then Purchaser shall assume all responsibility for contesting such litigation and shall pay all legal fees and expert costs incurred in such litigation
14.4 Pre-Merger Notification.
"Hart-Scott-Rodino Act"
 
by either party; provided that Purchaser shall take the lead in such litigation and Sellers shall cooperate fully with Purchaser's defense of any such litigation. In the event that the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission makes a request, authorized by Section 7A(e) of the Clayton Act, for additional information or documentary materials from either or both of the parties hereto, commonly referred to as a "second request" (a Purchaser may elect, by giving written notice to Sellers within twenty (20) days after receipt of such request, to terminate this Agreement or extend the Termination Date (as defined in Section 19.1) to October 1, 2007. (Purchaser may also elect to do neither.) If Purchaser does not elect to terminate the Agreement, the Earnest Money Deposit shall not be refunded upon any subsequent termination of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever other than any termination proximately caused by Sellers' breach hereof (in which case it shall be refunded). Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, if the Closing occurs, the Earnest Money Deposit shall be creditable against the Purchase Price.
"Second Request"),
     From the Effective Date to the Closing Date, Sellers shall deliver to Purchaser monthly financial reports in substantially the same format as the Financial Statements promptly after the end of each month.
14.5 Financial Reports.
     With regards to the construction projects identified on Sellers covenant to notify Purchaser of the descriptions of such projects in detail reasonably acceptable to Purchaser within ten days of the Effective Date. Thereafter, Purchaser shall have the right to audit the Sites subject to the construction projects or any documentation related to such construction projects. Sellers will proceed with or halt such construction projects in a reasonable manner and in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice. If the Closing is completed, Purchaser will reimburse Sellers for 110% of the costs associated with such construction projects between the Effective Date and the Closing (the ) as promptly as practicable after post-Closing receipt of a statement of the Construction Costs from Sellers and supporting evidence of such Construction Costs reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser. The payment of the Construction Costs by Purchaser will be deemed to be an adjustment to the Purchase Price.
14.6 Construction Projects.
Schedule 5.5,
"Construction Costs"
     Sellers or Affiliates of Sellers or successors of either currently have an ethanol plant under construction in or near Pixley, California. Reasonably in advance of the commencement of such plant's commercial operations, representatives of Purchaser and Sellers shall meet, negotiate and attempt to mutually agree upon the terms of an ethanol purchase agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Purchaser and the vendor.
14.7 Ethanol Purchase.
     Other than for an appropriate public announcement by each party on the date of execution of this Agreement, which may contain price and limited major material terms of the transaction, at no time prior to the Closing will Purchaser or Sellers make any press release or other public statement concerning this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, or disclose the terms hereof or thereof to any third party (other than the attorneys and consultants working on the transactions governed by this Agreement), except with the prior written consent (which shall
 
not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) of the other, or as required by law or regulation (including attachment of this Agreement as an exhibit to any filing pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), or in connection with any Permit application in furtherance of this Agreement, or in connection with any judicial action to enforce this Agreement. Except as provided herein, no public statement or third-party disclosure will be made by the Purchaser or Sellers unless the other is first provided the language of the proposed statement for its review and afforded a reasonable time to comment. Purchaser shall have the right to make disclosures regarding this Agreement in any filings required by the Securities and Exchange Commission or required by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission or New York Stock Exchange without review or consent by Sellers. Purchaser and Sellers agree to keep the terms of this Agreement and all Exhibits confidential, except to the extent required by applicable law or for financial reporting purposes and except that the parties may disclose such terms to their respective counsel, auditors, accountants, agents, advisors, lenders, and other representatives as necessary in connection with the ordinary conduct of their respective businesses (so long as such persons and entities agree to keep the terms of this Agreement and Exhibits confidential)) and as except to the extent made public in a public statement as provided in this Article 15.
     Within 15 days after the Effective Date, Seller will deliver, and the parties shall attach as a list of all active employees at each of the Sites who work full or part time as managers, assistant managers, cashiers, coffee bar personnel and similar positions below the managers Such list shall be updated by Sellers as necessary at any time prior to Closing. Sellers also have employees employed at its corporate office or in the field in various capacities, including auditors, supervisors, construction personnel, repair and maintenance personnel and other employees who do not work directly at a Site (collectively,
16.1 Employees in General.
Exhibit AA,
("Station Employees").
"Corporate Employees").
          16.1.1 Purchaser shall offer regular, full-time employment to all active, regular, full-time Station Employees and regular, part-time employment to all active, regular, part-time Station Employees, in each case who are employed by Sellers immediately prior to the Closing, unless Sellers agrees with Purchaser that certain employees can be excluded from the offer of employment. Purchaser may at its election, but shall not have any obligation to, offer employment to one or more Corporate Employees.
Offer of Employment.
          16.1.2 Purchaser shall employ the hired Station Employees at the same or, in the sole and absolute discretion of Purchaser, greater salaries or wages as were paid by Sellers immediately prior to the Closing. Where Purchaser has an executive incentive program or other bonus program, Purchaser shall include in such program the hired employees, in the same manner as similarly situated employees of Purchaser hired at the Closing Date.
Salaries and Wages.
 
          16.1.3 Purchaser shall provide the hired Station Employees with employee benefits that are substantially similar to those benefits currently provided by Purchaser to its similarly situated employees.
Benefit Level.
          16.1.4 Each hired Station Employee shall receive credit for service from the date of employment by Sellers or any predecessor in ownership of the Sites, which date is identified in for all purposes, including, but not limited to, vesting, eligibility, and benefit level (but not for purposes of the accrual of benefits under any defined benefit pension plan) purposes under all of Purchaser's employee benefit plans, policies, and programs provided to its similarly situated employees.
Service Credit.
Exhibit AA,
          16.1.5 Purchaser shall offer such medical plan and dental plan to the hired Station Employees as are currently offered to similarly situated employees of Purchaser as of the Closing in such a way as to maximize the likelihood of uninterrupted coverage of all hired Station Employees and eligible dependents. To the extent reasonably available to Purchaser under its existing medical plan and dental plan, hired Station Employees (i) shall be granted credit for any deductible and co-payment amounts paid by such Station Employees during the plan year in which the applicable Closing occurs, and (ii) shall not have pre-existing conditions excluded to the extent such conditions are otherwise covered under Purchaser's plans. Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of this Agreement unless otherwise determined in the sole discretion of Purchaser, Purchaser is not obligated to provide retiree medical benefits to any of the employees except, if at all, under and subject to such terms as it may decide.
Medical Plan and Dental Plan.
     As of the Closing Date, all right to retain a Station Employee who, as of the Closing Date, is not an active employee due to a short-term disability or other leave of absence (other than for long-term disability), if any, shall be with Purchaser and not with Sellers. Purchaser shall offer employment to such temporarily inactive employees who applies for employment with Purchaser to the extent required by applicable law.
16.2 Temporarily Inactive Employees.
     Sellers shall use commercially reasonable efforts to retain all Station Employees to be hired by Purchaser in their current positions up to the Closing, on the current terms of employment. Nothing in this Agreement shall (i) prevent Purchaser from exercising any reserved right contained in any of its employee benefit plans to amend, modify, suspend, revoke or terminate any such plan, so long as employees who are hired by Purchaser and remain in the employment of Purchaser are treated no less favorably than similarly situated employees of Purchaser, (ii) apply with respect to any equity-based compensation scheme of Purchaser, or (iii) require Purchaser to assume any obligation or liability with respect to any of Sellers' existing employee benefits and pension plans, agreements, arrangements, or plans, whether or not subject to ERISA. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to be a guarantee of an employee's continued employment with Purchaser.
16.3 Terms of Employment.
     Purchaser shall assume no liability for the vacation entitlement of employees who become employees of Purchaser for vacation time accrued prior to the Closing. Sellers shall pay off all such accrued vacation liability concurrently with the Closing. Sellers shall indemnify and hold Purchaser harmless from and against any such accrued vacation liability. Purchaser shall provide each Station Employee who is hired by Purchaser
16.4 Vacation Liability.
 
with unpaid time off equal to the vacation entitlement that Sellers pay off to the employees at the Closing. From and after the Closing, each hired Station Employee shall be eligible for paid vacation from Purchaser in accordance with Purchaser's vacation program for new employees. For purposes of determining future vacation entitlement with Purchaser following the Closing, each hired employee shall receive credit for service from the date of employment by Sellers or any predecessor in ownership of the Sites as set forth in Section 16.1.4.
     
16.5 Pension Plans.
          16.5.1 Purchaser agrees to accept into Purchaser's 401(k) plan direct rollovers and elective transfers satisfying the requirements of Treasury Regulations Section 1.411(d)-4 Q&A-3(b)(l) of hired Station Employees' account balances (including pre-tax and post-tax contributions and loan balances) from Sellers' savings plans for any hired Station Employee who so elects. Purchaser will have no obligation with respect to amounts attributable to Sellers' savings plan other than acceptance of direct rollovers and elective transfers described above requested by hired Station Employees.
Defined Contribution Plan.
          16.5.2 Sellers represent to Purchaser that:
Sellers' Representation.
               16.5.2.1 Neither Sellers nor any person who is or was a member of a "controlled group" with Sellers within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA maintains or contributes to (or has maintained or contributed to) any employee benefit pension plan that is a "multiemployer plan" within the meaning of Section 3(37) of ERISA, or that is or was subject to Section 302 or Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code, and that could result in any liability on the part of Purchaser.
               16.5.2.2 Sellers, and each person who is or was a member of a "controlled group" with Sellers within the meaning of Section 414 of the Code, and each group health plan of any such person, have complied in all material respects with the medical insurance coverage continuation requirements of Title I of ERISA and analogous state law ("COBRA continuation coverage").
               16.5.2.3 Each of Sellers' savings plans has been determined to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code and to Knowledge of any Seller nothing has occurred as to each which has resulted or is likely to result in the revocation of such qualification or which requires or could require action under the compliance resolution programs of the Internal Revenue Service to preserve such qualification. Sellers have delivered to Purchaser the most recently received IRS determination letter in respect of each of Seller's savings plans.
     Sellers agree that, with respect to claims for workers' compensation arising out of events occurring prior to the Closing and all employment-related claims, including any arising under Sellers' employee benefit programs, by, or in respect of, persons employed by Sellers at the Assets arising out of events occurring prior to the Closing, regardless of whether such employment had terminated and regardless of whether such employee is employed by Purchaser, whether reported or unreported as of the Closing, and whether insured or uninsured (including, but not limited to, workers' compensation, compensation, retirement, life insurance, medical and disability
16.6 Workers' Compensation and Employment-Related Claims.
 
programs), Sellers shall, at their own expense, honor, or cause their insurance carriers, if any, to honor, such claims (to the extent and in proportion to any injury or obligation incurred prior to Closing) in accordance with the terms and conditions of such programs or applicable workers' compensation statutes, including any construction of such terms or conditions ultimately made by any court or administrative body having jurisdiction therefor. Without limiting the scope of the preceding sentence, Sellers shall be responsible for any and all claims and liabilities arising out of or relating to (i) the employment of the employees or any former employees of Sellers, including without limitation any pending employment related claims or actions, (ii) the discharge by Sellers of any such employee or former employee of Sellers, and (iii) the provision of any employee benefits to such employees, former employees, retirees, or disabled employees of Sellers (and their beneficiaries and eligible dependents) attributable to their employment with, or their participation in any plans or programs maintained or contributed to, by Sellers (including without limitation the provision of COBRA continuation coverage). Purchaser shall be responsible for all workers' compensation claims for industrial injuries and illnesses of employees hired by Purchaser occurring on or after the Closing.
     Sellers will pay all wages, salaries, bonuses and other sums due each employee through the close of business on the day prior to the Closing. For those employees whose shift begins the day prior to Closing but does not end until day of Closing, Sellers shall pay the full shift of such employees.
16.7 Pay Employees Until Closing.
     Sellers will not increase the rate of compensation paid, or pay any bonus, to employees, except for those increases or bonuses made in the ordinary course of business consistent with Sellers' past practices. Sellers agree to notify Purchaser of any increases or bonuses given.
16.8 Change in Employee Compensation.
     From and after the execution of this Agreement and continuing after the Closing Date, Purchaser and Sellers shall cooperate to ensure an orderly transition of the Station Employees who accept employment with Purchaser.
16.9 Transition of Employees.
     The rights and obligations conferred by this Article 16 constitute contractual obligations of Sellers and Purchaser to one another, and are not intended to confer on any employee or other third party any direct benefit or right to enforce.
16.10 No Direct Benefit or Right of Action Conferred.
     The Inventory Price shall be determined by extending the physical inventory at the valuation methods set forth in At the Closing, Purchaser shall pay Sellers the sum of THREE MILLION FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($3,500,000) on account of petroleum inventory and THREE MILLION DOLLARS ($3,000,000) on account of merchandise Inventory (the sum of such amounts, or $6,500,000, is referred to as the On the day of the Closing or such other dates as may be mutually agreed by the parties, Purchaser and Sellers shall conduct or cause to be conducted an inventory audit or review (the of all Inventory located on the Sites in accordance with the
Exhibit BB.
"Estimated Inventory Price").
"Inventory Review")
 
procedures set forth in attached hereto. Purchaser and Sellers recognize that to inventory all Sites could take up to three (3) or more days and the procedure is designed to recognize this possibility. Based on the Inventory Review, Purchaser and Sellers shall compute the final Inventory Price. At the Closing, Purchaser shall wire transfer to Sellers the Estimated Inventory Price, with such amount consisting of the estimate for merchandise and the estimate for petroleum products. In the event that, upon completion of the Inventory Review, Purchaser and Sellers cannot agree on the proper Inventory Price, and related adjustment necessary due to the payment by Purchaser of the Estimated Inventory Price, Purchaser shall immediately pay Sellers by wire transfer the lower of the two amounts that Purchaser and Sellers contend to be the proper Inventory Price, after first deducting the Estimated Inventory Price payment previously made and contingent upon the lower of the two amounts being greater than the Estimated Inventory Price. If the lower of the two amounts is less than the Estimated Inventory Price, Sellers shall immediately pay Purchaser such difference in amounts by wire transfer. If Purchaser and Sellers are unable to resolve the dispute regarding the Inventory Price, the same shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 27. Upon resolution of the dispute, whether by negotiation or arbitration, Sellers or Purchaser, as appropriate, shall immediately pay, or retain, as applicable, the appropriate amount as determined by the arbitrator or through negotiation. To the extent that Purchaser and Sellers retain third parties to conduct one or more of the Inventory Reviews, Purchaser shall pay the fees and expenses of such third parties. Purchaser and Sellers shall mutually agree to any third parties and shall mutually agree if the Inventory Review at any Site is not to be conducted by a third party.
Exhibit BB
     Sellers covenants to use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to Purchaser a certification, certificate or both for each and every one of the Sites, which Certification Documentation is the most recent certification issued prior to the Closing by, as appropriate, a state or federal licensed tester demonstrating that the underground fuel tanks and the fuel lines located at each of the Sites is in compliance with applicable Environmental Law leak detection requirements and secondary containment testing Sellers shall deliver the most recent Certification Documentation no more than 4 weeks before Closing, and in no event shall a Tightness Certification be dated prior to August 1, 2006. In the event that Sellers are unable to obtain a Tightness Certification dated on or after August 1, 2006 for every Site as of the Closing Date, Purchaser shall attempt to obtain a Tightness Certification post-Closing. Seller shall reimburse Purchaser for the costs associated with obtaining such Tightness Certification post-Closing and the costs of all repairs necessary to obtain such Tightness Certification as promptly as practicable after Purchaser delivers to Sellers invoices for such certification and repairs, but shall have no obligation to Purchaser for damages for lost profits. Purchaser and Sellers shall cooperate in good faith in order to obtain the Tightness Certification, including granting access to the other as necessary. Nothing in this Article 18 shall be construed to limit the rights and obligations of the parties as contemplated in Article 7.
18.1 Tank Tightness Certification.
("Certification Documentation")
("Tightness Certification").
 
     This Agreement may be terminated (i) by mutual agreement of the parties, (ii) by any party in the event the Closing has not occurred by July 1, 2007, or October 1, 2007 if Purchaser has made the election set forth in Section 14.4 (as applicable, the (iii) by Purchaser in the event of any material breach by any Seller of the covenants, representations and warranties of Sellers in this Agreement which remains uncured thirty (30) days after Purchaser gives notice thereof, (iv) by any Seller in the event of any material breach by Purchaser of the covenants, representations and warranties of Purchaser in this Agreement which remains uncured thirty (30) days after a Seller gives notice thereof or (v) as otherwise contemplated by the terms of this Agreement. In the event of any termination in accordance with this Section 19.1, the parties shall have no further obligations under this Agreement, and all documents and funds deposited in the Escrow shall be returned to the depositing party within 5 business days, but such termination and/or return shall not affect any claims for breach of this Agreement arising prior to such termination. For the purposes of this Section 19.1 only, the term "material" shall be applied with respect to the Assets as a whole and not with respect to any individual Sites or Assets or any group thereof other than all of them, and "material" breaches of representations, warranties, covenants and agreements shall be those resulting in losses, penalties, costs, expenses, damages and liabilities of $27,700,000 in the aggregate.
19.1 Termination.
"Termination Date"),
     It shall be Purchaser's responsibility to seek the issuance or transfer of all environmental and other Permits; provided, however, that Sellers shall cooperate with any efforts of Purchaser, before and after Closing, to complete the actions required in connection with transferring or obtaining the issuance of all such Permits, including, Sellers' right, title and interest in all operating permits, including beer and wine licenses, where applicable. To the extent Sellers' cooperation would involve any material out-of-pocket expense, Sellers may condition their obligation with respect to such cooperation on Purchaser's prior approval of and agreement to reimburse Sellers for such out-of-pocket expense.
20.1 Transfer of Permits.
     If there are prohibitions against, or conditions to, the conveyance of any Contracts or Permits without the prior written consent of third parties, then any provision contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the transfer of title to, or assignment of, such Contracts or Permits pursuant to this Agreement shall not become effective unless and until such consent requirement is satisfied, waived or no longer applies. When and if such consent requirement is so satisfied, waived or no longer applies, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the assignment of such Contracts or Permits shall become effective automatically as of the Closing Date, without further action on the part of Sellers or Purchaser and without payment of further consideration. Each of Sellers and Purchaser agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to
20.2 Delays in Transfer or Issuance of Permits or Assignment of Contracts.
 
obtain satisfaction of any consent requirement on a timely basis; provided that Sellers shall not be obligated to expend any moneys in connection with satisfying any such consent requirement other than to cure existing defaults or to satisfy pre-Closing obligations. To the extent that any consent requirement for any Contract or Permits, or any required replacement Permit issued to Purchaser, cannot be obtained, Sellers will, upon request of Purchaser and at Purchaser's expense, use its commercially reasonable efforts (without infringing upon the legal rights of any outside party or violating any applicable law) to provide Purchaser with the benefits of such Contracts or Permits or equivalent contracts or permits effective as of the Closing Date, provided Purchaser assumes all responsibilities, liabilities, costs and expense under any such Contracts or Permits with respect to the period after the Closing.
     
21.1 Documentary Transfer Taxes and Certain Fees.
          21.1.1 Sellers on the one hand and Purchaser on the other hand shall each pay one-half of (i) all real estate transfer tax imposed on the consideration from conveyance of real property under this Agreement and (ii) all recording, filing and escrow fees and closing costs imposed in connection with the conveyance of real property under this Agreement.
     
21.2 Other Taxes.
          21.2.1 Sellers shall pay when due all sales, use, gross receipts or excise taxes and any environmental fees imposed upon the transfer of any part of the Assets pursuant to this Agreement, and shall deliver to Purchaser written evidence of such payment. Sellers shall indemnify and defend Purchaser and its Affiliates against, and shall hold them harmless from, and pay, any and all liabilities arising out of or resulting from any failure to pay any such taxes when due.
          21.2.2 It is understood between Sellers and Purchaser that the consideration from the sale of certain of Sellers' tangible personal property may be exempt from California sales tax as sale for resale as defined under California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 6091-6092. Sellers and Purchaser agree to cooperate with each other to the extent possible to substantiate any values or claimed exemptions as required by the State of California. Purchaser shall provide to Sellers at the Closing a Resale Exemption certificate regarding the Inventory.
          21.2.3 Sellers and Purchaser will provide each other with such cooperation and information as each may reasonably request of the other with regard to the preparation and filing of Returns, or the conduct of an audit or other proceeding in respect of taxes.
     The following prorations shall be made as of the date of Closing on the basis of a 365 day year:
21.3 Prorations.
          21.3.1 For Fee Sites, real estate taxes shall be prorated as of the Closing based on the most recent tax statement ,for the Site. If such proration is not made on the basis of the
 
current tax year, or if supplemental taxes are assessed after the Closing for the period prior to the Closing, the parties shall make any necessary adjustments after the Closing by cash payment to the party entitled thereto so that Sellers shall have borne all taxes allocable to the period prior to the Closing and Purchaser shall bear all taxes allocable to the period after the Closing.
          21.3.2 For Leased Sites, rent and other payments due under the Lease shall be prorated as of the Closing in the same manner as set forth in Sections 21.3.1 and 21.3.4.
          21.3.3 Nonreimbursable utilities and operating expenses of the Sites shall be prorated as of the Closing on the assumption that utility charges were uniformly incurred during the billing period in which the Closing occurs.
          21.3.4 Personal property taxes shall be prorated as of the Closing based on the most recent tax statements. If such proration is not made on the basis of the current tax year, or if supplemental taxes are assessed after the Closing for the period prior to the Closing, the parties shall make any necessary adjustments after the Closing by cash payment to the party entitled thereto so that Sellers shall have borne all taxes allocable to the period prior to the Closing and Purchaser shall bear all taxes allocable to the period after the Closing.
          21.3.5 Prepaid expenses (including royalty payments) attributable to the Assets and payments due under the Contracts shall be prorated based on a schedule approved by Purchaser and Sellers.
     The parties hereto and Escrow Holder shall use their respective best efforts to prepare and distribute among them a closing prorations schedule not later than seven business (7) days before the Closing.
21.4 Proration Schedule.
     Attached hereto as is a list of all beer and wine licenses and liquor licenses held by Sellers for the Sites (the Purchaser shall pay Sellers $1,000 for each of the Liquor Licenses at the Sites; such amount is included within the Purchase Price (the and shall be withheld at closing to make payments as required pursuant this Article 22. Unless otherwise required by the laws of the jurisdiction where the Site is located, there shall be no separate escrow for the License Consideration and the Liquor Inventory, except for the License Consideration and Liquor Inventory for California Sites Nos. 291, 292, 293, 294, 295, 837 and 850 which have liquor licenses (rather than merely beer and wine licenses). The Parties agree that for California Sites, if permitted pursuant to California Business and Professions Code Section 24074.4, Sellers may deliver to the California Department of Alcohol Beverage Control a guaranty to Sellers' creditors in conformity with such Section 24074.4 duly executed by USA Petroleum Corporation and that all claims of Sellers' creditors with respect to Liquor Inventory shall first be satisfied pursuant to such guaranty. If any governing law requires an escrow for the transfer of a Liquor License and Liquor Inventory, without any alternative method (e.g. guaranty) agreeable by Sellers, then Sellers and Purchaser shall establish a separate escrow with Alcoholic Beverage Consulting
22.1 Procedure.
Exhibit CC
"Liquor Licenses").
"License Consideration")
 
Service () or, if such company is unable to provide services outside of California, such other escrow holder(s) as may be agreeable to the Parties into which the License Consideration and the Liquor Inventory consideration shall be deposited. Sellers and Purchaser hereby instruct the ABC Escrow Holder to use the License Consideration and the Liquor Inventory consideration to pay claims of Sellers' creditors in compliance with applicable law. Sellers shall use their best reasonable efforts and shall take all actions reasonably required or necessary to facilitate the transfer of the Liquor Licenses to Purchaser. If Sellers is unable to transfer the Liquor License for any of the Sites on the date of Closing for the Site, then (i) Sellers shall transfer possession of (but not title to) the Liquor Inventory at the such Site(s) to Purchaser on the applicable Closing date for the Site(s), which Purchaser shall hold for Sellers as a bailee, and (ii) if there is no escrow, Purchaser shall hold the License Consideration and the Liquor Inventory consideration for Sellers or, if there is an escrow, the ABC Escrow Holder shall retain in escrow the portion of the License Consideration and the Liquor Inventory consideration attributable to such Site(s). Sellers shall transfer title to the Liquor Inventory at each Site to Purchaser upon completion of transfer of the Liquor License for the Site. Upon such transfer, Purchaser or the ABC Escrow Holder, as applicable, shall distribute to Sellers the License Consideration and the Liquor Inventory consideration for the Site, less any amounts paid to creditors under this Article 22. Purchaser's obligation to consummate the purchase and sale of the Assets is not conditioned upon transfer of the Liquor Licenses or the Liquor Inventory; provided, however, that the closing of the purchase and sale of the Assets shall be a condition precedent to transfer of the Liquor Licenses and the Liquor Inventory. In the event that any of the Liquor Licenses are not transferred on or before the date three months after the Closing Date for any Site, then (i) to the extent previously deposited by Purchaser with escrow, ABC Escrow Holder shall return the License Consideration and the Liquor Inventory consideration for the particular Sites to Purchaser (without interest) and neither Party shall have any further obligation with respect to the transfer of the Liquor Licenses for the affected Sites and (ii) Purchaser shall either return to Sellers the Liquor Inventory held by Purchaser as a bailee from the date of Closing or pay to Sellers the cash value of the Liquor Inventory (without interest) as of the date of Closing for the affected Sites. All escrow costs shall be divided equally between Sellers and Purchaser. Purchaser shall be responsible for all license fees and transfer fees in connection with the transfer of the Liquor Licenses.
"ABC"
("ABC Escrow Holder")
     For each Leased Site, Sellers shall, as a condition to the Closing, obtain from the Landlord a full and complete estoppel certificate (each, an substantially in the form attached hereto as , duly executed by the Landlord and certifying for the benefit of Purchaser (i) that the Lease is in full force and effect, (ii) that there are no defaults on the part of Sellers or the Landlord, (iii) the current monthly rent due under the Lease, (iv) the date to which all rents have been paid, (v) that, if required under the terms of the Lease, the Landlord consents to the assignment of the Lease to Purchaser, and (vi) such other matters as Purchaser may reasonably request. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sellers shall be deemed to satisfy the closing condition described in Section 3.4.1.6 and this Article 23 if Estoppel Certificates are not obtained for ten or less Leased Sites by Closing and Sellers deliver
23.1 Estoppel Certificates.
"Estoppel Certificate")
Exhibit J
 
a certification pursuant to Section 23.2 for each such Leased Site for which an Estoppel Certificate is not obtained.
     In the event that, despite good faith efforts, Sellers are unable to obtain an Estoppel Certificate from one or more of the Landlords, Sellers may deliver, with respect to no more than ten Sites in the aggregate, a certification in lieu of an Estoppel Certificate, executed by a duly authorized officer of a Seller, setting forth the matters required to be included in the Estoppel Certificate. Without limiting any other requirement hereunder, such certification in lieu of an Estoppel Certificate shall constitute a representation by Sellers that the matters set forth therein are true, complete and not misleading.
23.2 Sellers' Certifications in Lieu of Estoppel Certificates.
     Except as may be necessary in order to effect a like-kind exchange pursuant to the terms of Article 25, Sellers shall have no right to assign all or any part of this Agreement without the prior written consent of Purchaser, which consent may be granted or withheld by Purchaser in Purchaser's sole and absolute discretion. In addition to such assignments as may be necessary in order to effect a like-kind exchange pursuant to the terms of Article 25, Purchaser may assign its rights under this Agreement or designate a nominee to take title to the Assets to any Affiliate of Purchaser without the consent of Sellers by delivering written notice of such assignment or nomination to Sellers and Escrow Holder together with an assignment and assumption agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as For purposes of this Section 24.1 only, "Affiliate" shall mean, as used with respect to any Person (as defined below), any other Person or Persons directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with, such Person. For purposes of this definition, or shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust, or other legal entity and the term "control" (including the correlative meanings of the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), as used with respect to any Person or Persons, shall mean (x) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management policies of such Person or Persons, whether through the ownership of voting securities or by contract or otherwise and/or (y) ownership in such Person or Persons of fifty-one percent (51%) or more of all equity, capital and profit interests. In any assignment under this Agreement, the assignor shall bind the assignee in respect to such assigned interests to assume the obligations of assignor under this Agreement. Otherwise, Purchaser shall not have the right to assign its interest in this Agreement or designate a nominee to take title to the Assets without obtaining the prior written consent of Sellers, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. In this regard, in the event that Sellers fails to respond within five (5) business days following such request for consent, then Sellers shall be deemed to have provided such consent. To the extent any assignment of Purchaser's interest in this Agreement is consented to by Sellers or permitted by this provision, the term "Purchaser," as used in this Agreement, shall include such permitted assignee. Any assignment permitted hereunder shall not relieve the assignor of its obligations hereunder, including but not limited to the indemnities and other covenants in this Agreement, and shall not delay the Closing in any way. Any
24.1 Limitation on Assignment.
Exhibit DD.
"Person"
"Persons"
 
assignment document shall provide that assignor is not relieved of its obligations as set forth in this Agreement.
     This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and permitted assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties and their respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns, except that any such assignment shall not relieve the assigning party of its obligations hereunder. This Agreement is not intended to, and does not create, any rights in any third parties.
24.2 Scope of Permitted Assignments.
     After the Closing, upon the sale of any or all of the Sites, Purchaser, and Purchaser's successors in interest shall have the right from time-to-time to transfer any rights accruing to the benefit of Purchaser, or Purchaser's successors, as applicable, hereunder, that survived the Closing, including, without limitation, Sellers' environmental obligations related to the Assets as set forth in Article 7 herein. Likewise after the Closing, upon the sale of any or all of the Sites, Purchaser, and Purchaser's successors in interest, shall obligate and bind any subsequent acquirer of any or all of the Sites, to assume Purchaser's obligations as set forth in this Agreement in respect to such Site or Sites. Upon the request of Purchaser, or Purchaser's successors in interest, as applicable, Sellers shall issue a certificate for the benefit of Purchaser, or Purchaser's successors, as applicable, and a designated party evidencing Sellers' continuing obligations under the Agreement. As an accommodation to Sellers Purchaser, or Purchaser's successors in interest, as applicable, shall notify Sellers of any said assignment within thirty (30) days of the completion of the assignment. This Section 24.3 shall survive the Closing, and any subsequent closings.
24.3 Post-Closing Assignments.
     The parties agree that either party may consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement through a tax deferred exchange which qualifies for non-recognition of gain under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. If Purchaser or Sellers desire to effect such exchange, it shall give written notice to the other at least twenty (20) days prior to the Closing of its intention to do so. Upon receipt of such notice, the parties shall cooperate with each other in attempting to effectuate such exchange, including, but not limited to, the execution of such agreements and other documents as may be reasonably necessary to complete and otherwise effectuate the tax deferred exchange, provided that: (a) a party's obligations hereunder shall not be increased; (b) such documents shall not modify a party's representations, warranties or obligations hereunder; (c) the Purchase Price paid by Purchaser shall not be different from that which Purchaser would have paid pursuant to Article 2; (d) the non-exchanging party shall not incur any additional cost, expense, liability or undue burden as a result of its cooperation in such exchange; and (e) neither party shall be required to take title to any real property not part of the Assets.
 
     All references herein to dollars ($) refer to U.S. dollars. Unless otherwise specified herein, any payment to be made hereunder shall be made in U.S. dollars by wire transfer of immediately available funds, without discount or deduction, or by such other means as the parties may agree in writing.
26.1 Form and Method of Payment.
     Any amount not paid by either party when due hereunder, or in any associated agreements, shall bear interest from the date upon which payment was due through the date of payment at a rate equal to one percent (1%) above the prime rate of interest as announced by Bank of America, NA, from time to time.
26.2 Interest on Past Due Payments.
     In the event of any controversy or claim whether based on contract, tort, statute or other legal or equitable theory (including, but not limited to, any claim of fraud, misrepresentation or fraudulent inducement or any question of validity or effect of this Agreement including this Section) arising out of or related to this Agreement (including any amendments or extensions and any documents delivered or to be delivered pursuant hereto), or the breach or termination thereof, which the parties have been unable to settle or agree upon within a period of thirty (30) days after the dispute or disagreement arises, each party shall nominate a senior officer of its management to meet at a mutually agreed time and place not later than forty five (45) days after the dispute or disagreement has arisen to attempt to resolve such dispute or disagreement. Should a resolution of such dispute or disagreement not be obtained within fifteen (15) days after nomination of senior officers for such purpose, either party may then, by notice to the other, submit the dispute to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Section 27.2. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Purchaser shall have the right to seek specific performance of this Agreement and any related injunctions in a court of law, in lieu of arbitration.
27.1 Negotiation of Disputes and Disagreements.
("Claim"),
     Any Claim shall be submitted to binding arbitration before a single arbitrator conducted by JAMS-Endispute, Santa Monica, California in accordance with its then-current rules and procedures. The arbitration shall be held in Los Angeles, California. Sellers and Purchaser shall attempt to select a mutually agreed to individual to serve as the single arbitrator within fifteen (15) days following the date that either party receives a notice to arbitrate. Within five (5) business days after Purchaser or Sellers receive a notice to arbitrate, Purchaser and Sellers shall provide the other with a list of three (3) names of current JAMS-Endispute arbitrators. If the name of one arbitrator is listed by each party, the parties agree to use that arbitrator. If more than one arbitrator is on the list, the parties shall use the arbitrator with the lowest hourly rate. If Sellers and Purchaser do not list one of the same arbitrators on the respective lists, they shall request the Santa Monica, California office of JAMS-Endispute to submit to them a list identifying five (5) of its members qualified to conduct
27.2 Arbitration Resolution.
 
an arbitration involving the issue raised in the notice to arbitrate, in accordance with JAMS' Comprehensive Arbitration Rules & Procedure. Sellers, on the one hand, and Purchaser, on the other hand, may each strike two (2) persons from the list. If Sellers and Purchaser are unable to select an arbitrator from the remaining persons on the list (for example, if there is more than one individual remaining on the list), JAMS-Endispute shall select the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall determine the Claims of the parties and render a final award in accordance with the law of the State of California. The arbitrator shall set forth the reasons for the award in writing.
     Arbitration shall be subject to the following additional provisions:
27.3 Conduct of the Arbitration.
          27.3.1 the hearing shall be conducted on a confidential basis without continuance or adjournment;
          27.3.2 any offer made or the details of any negotiation of the dispute subject to arbitration prior to arbitration shall not be admissible;
          27.3.3 Purchaser and Sellers shall be entitled to all rights and privileges granted by the arbitrator to the other;
          27.3.4 each party shall be entitled to compel the attendance of witnesses or production of documents, and for this purpose, the arbitrator shall have the power to issue subpoenas in accordance with the law of the State of California;
          27.3.5 each party shall have the right (upon leave of the arbitrator) to take depositions and obtain other discovery of the scope and in the manner which the arbitrator deems reasonably necessary to the preparation and presentation of the party's case;
          27.3.6 the arbitrator shall have the power to impose on any party such terms, conditions, consequences, liabilities, sanctions and penalties as they deem necessary or appropriate (which shall be conclusive, final and enforceable as the award on the merits) to compel or induce compliance with discovery and the appearance of, or production of documents in the custody of, any officer, director, agent or employee of a party or any Affiliate of such party;
          27.3.7 the arbitrator shall award reasonable attorneys' fees and costs, and the costs of arbitration, including the fees charged by the arbitrator and by JAMS-Endispute, to any substantially prevailing party; and
          27.3.8 the arbitrator shall schedule the arbitration within ninety (90) days after the appointment of the arbitrator and render his or her decision in writing within sixty (60) days after the arbitration is concluded.
     The parties recognize that irreparable injury will result from a breach of any provision of this Agreement and that money damages will be inadequate to fully remedy the injury. In order to prevent such irreparable injury, the arbitrator shall have the power to grant temporary or permanent injunctive or other equitable relief. Prior to the appointment of an
27.4 Breach.
 
arbitrator, a party may, notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement, seek temporary injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction; provided that the party seeking such relief shall (if arbitration has not already been commenced) simultaneously commence arbitration. Such court-ordered relief shall not continue more than ten (10) days after the appointment of the arbitrator (or in any event for longer than sixty (60)days).
     Judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator is final and binding upon the parties. The parties hereby consent to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the state or federal courts of the State of California for the enforcement of any award rendered by the arbitrator.
27.5 Arbitration Awards.
     NOTICE: BY INITIALING IN THE SPACE, BELOW YOU ARE AGREEING TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT DECIDED BY NEUTRAL ARBITRATION AND YOU ARE GIVING UP ANY RIGHTS YOU MIGHT POSSESS TO HAVE THE DISPUTE LITIGATED IN A COURT OR JURY TRIAL. BY INITIALING IN THE SPACE BELOW, YOU ARE GIVING UP YOUR JUDICIAL RIGHTS TO DISCOVERY AND APPEAL, UNLESS THOSE RIGHTS ARE SPECIFICALLY INCLUDED IN THIS ARTICLE 27. IF YOU REFUSE TO SUBMIT TO ARBITRATION AFTER AGREEING TO THIS PROVISION, YOU MAY BE COMPELLED TO ARBITRATE UNDER CALIFORNIA LAW. YOUR AGREEMENT TO THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION IS VOLUNTARY.
     WE HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THE FOREGOING AND AGREE TO SUBMIT DISPUTES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT TO NEUTRAL ARBITRATION.
     This Agreement cannot be altered, amended, changed or modified in any respect or particular unless each such alteration, amendment, change or modification shall have been agreed to by each of the parties and reduced to writing in its entirety and signed and delivered by each party.
     All obligations of the parties contained herein which by their terms do not arise until after the Closing, and any other provisions of this Agreement which by their terms survive the Closing, shall survive the Closing. All representations and warranties of the parties contained in this Agreement shall survive the Closing. It is the parties' intent that such surviving representations and warranties shall not merge in the Closing or in the conveyancing instruments delivered at the Closing. All representations and warranties of Sellers related to title matters
 
pursuant to Section 5.19 above or pursuant to the Grant Deeds shall survive forever. All representations and warranties of Sellers related to taxes or tax matters shall survive until the expiration of the last applicable statute of limitations period. All other representations and warranties of Sellers hereunder shall survive for a period of eighteen (18) months after the Closing. Nothing set forth in this Article 29 shall in any way limit or effect the survival of Sellers' covenants and Sellers' environmental obligations set forth in this Agreement.
     Sellers agree to cooperate with Purchaser in providing for an orderly transition of the Assets. The provisions of this Article 30 shall survive the Closing.
     Sellers agree, acknowledge and covenant that they jointly and severally retain all liabilities, and shall be responsible for discharging all obligations relating to the ownership and/or operation of the Assets prior to the Closing, whether by any Seller or prior owners of the Assets (other than, with regards to Assets previously owned by Purchaser, obligations and liabilities arising during or prior to Purchaser's previous ownership), as set forth in this Agreement, including matters shown on and Except as expressly provided elsewhere in this Agreement, including the specific limitations on environmental liabilities set forth in Article 7, Sellers shall jointly and severally assume, discharge, protect (with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser), indemnify and hold Purchaser, its parent, subsidiaries and Affiliates and their respective officers, employees, attorneys, business invitees, guests, customers, contractors and agents harmless from and against each and every liability in any way pertaining or relating to (i) a breach of any representation or warranty of any Seller contained herein, either as of the date hereof or as of the Closing Date, subject to the provisions pertaining to representations and warranties in this Article 31 below, (ii) a breach of any covenant contained herein, (iii) any Taxes of Sellers or (iv) the Assets, or any portion thereof or any interest therein, including, without limitation, the use, ownership or operation of the Assets by any person (including, without limitation, Sellers and any prior owner of the Assets other than, with regards to Assets previously owned by Purchaser, Purchaser and all owners prior to Purchaser's previous ownership) arising on or before the Closing or existing as of the Closing applicable to the Asset in question or arising thereafter with respect to any period of time prior thereto. Except as otherwise provided in the Trademark License Agreement with respect to Sellers' use of the Licensed Trademarks, Purchaser shall assume, discharge, indemnify and hold Sellers, its parent, subsidiaries and Affiliates and their respective officers, employees, attorneys, business invitees, guests, customers, contractors and agents harmless from and against each and every liability in any way pertaining or relating to the Assets, or any portion thereof or any interest therein, arising for the first time after the Closing and with respect to any period of time subsequent thereto that Purchaser owns the Assets. The foregoing is not intended to waive, and shall not constitute a waiver by Purchaser, of Purchaser's rights against Sellers in the event Sellers shall have failed to
Exhibit U
Exhibit V.
 
comply with any of the covenants, agreements, representations, warranties, terms and conditions to be performed and complied with by Sellers. Furthermore, in the event of such a breach by any Seller, Sellers' liability shall not be in any way satisfied, reduced or excused by virtue of any rights granted to Purchaser to investigate the Assets or by any information which Purchaser may acquire by virtue of such investigation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, except with respect to Sellers' title and Tax representations and warranties (to which none of the limitations set forth in this sentence applies), Sellers' aggregate liability for indemnification with respect to all Claims by Purchaser for breach of representations and warranties under or related to this Agreement (i) shall be conditioned on a Claim being made therefore by Purchaser within 18 months after the Closing Date; (ii) shall not apply unless the aggregate damage amount of all Claims shall exceed ONE MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000), in which case only the aggregate damage amount exceeding ONE MILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000) shall be indemnified, and (iii) shall not exceed SEVENTY MILLION DOLLARS ($70,000,000). For the avoidance of doubt, none of Sellers' indemnities under this Agreement (other than clause (i) above for breach of representations and warranties), and none of Sellers' covenants under this Agreement, shall be subject to the limitations of the immediately preceding sentence. Neither party shall have liability under this Agreement for exemplary or punitive damages or damages for lost profits, except those awarded to a third party. The rights and obligations conferred by this Article 31 constitute contractual obligations of Sellers and Purchaser to one another and are not intended to confer on any other third party, except successors or assignees of Purchaser as provided in this Agreement, any benefit or right to enforce. Nothing in this Article 31 shall limit any liability with respect to fraud. With regard to any indemnity claim concerning representations and warranties for title, Purchaser shall first be required to pursue such claim against the Title Policy.
     This Agreement, including all of the Exhibits and Schedules, constitutes the entire understanding between the parties with respect to the subject matter contained herein and supersedes any prior understandings, negotiations or agreements, whether written or oral, between them respecting such subject matter. There are no representations and warranties except as expressly set forth in this Agreement.
32.1 Entire Agreement.
     Words of any gender used in this Agreement shall be construed to include any other gender, and words in the singular number shall include the plural, and vice versa, unless the context requires otherwise.
32.2 Construction.
     The captions used in connection with the Articles and Sections of this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to enlarge, limit or otherwise modify the meaning or interpretation of the language of this Agreement. Any references to "Articles," "Sections," "Schedules" and "Exhibits," are to Articles, Sections, Schedules and Exhibits of this Agreement.
32.3 Captions.
 
     Each Exhibit or Schedule referred to herein is incorporated into this Agreement by such reference; provided that to the extent of any conflict or inconsistency between any of the Exhibits or Schedules and this Agreement, this Agreement will prevail.
32.4 Exhibits.
     If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable under any present or future laws, such provision shall be fully severable; this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision had never comprised a part of this Agreement; and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, unaffected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance from this Agreement. In lieu of such illegal, invalid, or unenforceable provision, there shall be added automatically as a part of this Agreement a provision as similar in terms to such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.
32.5 Severability.
     Purchaser or Sellers may waive the satisfaction or performance of any conditions or agreements in this Agreement which have been inserted for its own and exclusive benefit, so long as the waiver is signed (unless the Agreement provides for a non-written waiver) and specifies the waived condition or agreement and is delivered to the other hereto and Escrow Holder.
32.6 Waiver.
     This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California.
32.7 Governing Law.
     All notices or other communications required hereunder shall be in writing unless otherwise indicated, shall be addressed as specified below and shall be deemed to have been given: (a) at the time of delivery when delivered personally; (b) upon receipt when sent by Federal Express, or similar overnight service, or (c) upon completion of successful transmission when sent by facsimile (unless transmission is completed outside recipient's normal working hours, in which case such notice shall be deemed given at the start of recipient's next business day), immediately followed by U.S. posting, postage prepaid.
32.8 Notices.
Either Party may change its address or facsimile number by providing written notice to the other at least ten (10) days prior to the effective date of such change.
     Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, Purchaser and Sellers shall each use commercially reasonable efforts to satisfy the conditions to Closing and otherwise consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as promptly as practical. TIME AND EACH OF THE TERMS,
32.9 Commercially Reasonable Efforts; Time of Essence.
 
COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND CONTINGENCIES OF THIS AGREEMENT ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY MADE OF THE ESSENCE.
     . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and any party may execute any such counterpart, each of which when executed by both parties and delivered shall be deemed to be an original. It shall not be necessary in making proof of this Agreement or any counterparts hereof to produce or account for any of the other counterparts.
32.10 Counterparts
     . It is agreed that any party to this Agreement may extend time for performance by any other party or waive the performance of any obligation of any other party or waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of any other party, but any such waiver shall be in writing, and shall not constitute or be construed as a waiver of any other obligation, condition, representation or warranty under this Agreement.
32.11 Extensions of Time; Waiver
     . Purchaser and Sellers shall take such additional action, and shall cooperate with one another, as may be reasonably necessary to effectuate the terms of this Agreement and any agreement or instrument delivered pursuant to this Agreement.
32.12 Further Assurances
     . Purchaser and Sellers have each fully participated in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement. If an ambiguity, question of intent or question of interpretation arises, this Agreement must be construed as if drafted jointly, and there must not be any presumption, inference or conclusion drawn against either party by virtue of the fact that its representative or counsel have authored this Agreement or any of its terms.
32.13 No Presumption Against Drafter
     . Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, each party to this Agreement shall bear its own expenses in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including attorneys' fees and expenses. Purchaser shall bear the fees and expenses of Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP in connection with representation of the parties regarding public relations and contacts with governmental agencies and authorities necessary to carry out the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
32.14 Expenses
     . The use of the phrase "including," or phrases of similar import, shall be deemed to include the phrase "without limitation".
32.15 Interpretation
     . Without limiting the arbitration requirements set forth in this Agreement, in any action or Claim between the parties hereto seeking the enforcement of any of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, or in connection with the Assets or the Escrow, the prevailing party in such action shall be awarded, in addition to damages, injunctive or other relief, its reasonable costs and expenses, and reasonable attorneys' fees.
32.16 Attorneys' Fees
     . Sellers and Purchaser shall not be responsible for any loss or breach due to delay in delivery or performance hereunder caused by third parties, governmental regulations, outbreak of a state of emergency, acts of God, war or terrorist event, civil commotion, riots, epidemics, earthquakes or other natural casualties, fires, strikes, walk-outs, or other similar cause or causes beyond the control of the parties. The parties shall exercise reasonable diligence to remedy any condition of force majeure and resume performance hereunder, and the suspension for force majeure shall not continue beyond any time when a party
32.17 Force Majeure
 
so affected could resume performance through the exercise of reasonable diligence; provided however, that neither party shall be obligated to settle any strikes or labor disputes on terms it deems unsatisfactory.
     . EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, ALL OF THE ASSETS TO BE CONVEYED HEREUNDER WILL BE CONVEYED ON AN "AS IS," WHERE IS," AND "WITH ALL FAULTS" BASIS AT THE CLOSING. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT, SELLERS MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, CONCERNING THE PHYSICAL CONDITION, UTILITY, FITNESS OR OPERATIBILITY OF ANY OF THE ASSETS, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR OF FITNESS FOR PARTICULAR OR ORDINARY USES OR PURPOSES. PURCHASER HEREBY WAIVES THE UNIFORM COMMERICAL CODE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND ALL OTHER IMPLIED WARRANTES WITH RESPECT TO THE ASSETS.
32.18 Condition of Assets
     . Except in relation to the transfer of the liquor licenses as set forth hereinabove, Sellers and Purchaser agree to waive compliance with any applicable bulk sales laws. Sellers shall indemnify, defend and protect (with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser) Purchaser and its Affiliates against, and shall hold them harmless from, and pay, any and all losses, penalties, costs, expenses, damages and liabilities arising out of or resulting from any failure to comply with or perform any action in connection with such bulk sales provisions as they apply to the transfer of the Assets consistent with this Agreement. Sellers shall comply with the bulk sales tax notice requirement of the State of California.
32.19 Bulk Sales
     . In different sections of this Agreement, Purchaser has the right to reduce the Purchase Price by the amount of $1,800,000 per Site. Purchaser and Sellers have chosen this $1,800,000 number at random, and such number shall in no way be attributed as the value the parties assigned to any particular Sites, but rather as a mechanism to facilitate the Closing. The actual value of any particular Site is to be determined post-closing by the parties hereto, and if said parties are unable to agree on said values, by the arbitrator in accordance with Article 27 above.
32.20 Judicial Notice
     . This Agreement may be delivered to Escrow Holder and the other parties by facsimile transmission.
32.21 Facsimiles
     . All obligations of Sellers under this Agreement are joint and several and each Seller shall be fully liable for the obligations of Sellers hereunder. The obligation of each Seller under this Agreement shall be direct and independent of and not secondary to the obligations of any other Seller. Each Seller expressly waives any right to require Purchaser to (i) proceed against any other Seller or any other person; (ii) proceed against or exhaust any security or (iii) pursue any other remedy. Purchaser may exercise or not exercise any right or remedy it has against any other Seller or any security it holds (including the right to foreclose by judicial or nonjudicial sale) without affecting any Seller's liability hereunder. Each Seller further expressly waives any rights to participate in any security held by Purchaser, any demands for performance, notices of nonperformance or the benefit of any act or omission by Purchaser which directly or indirectly results in or aids the discharge of any other Seller from
32.22 Joint and Several Liability
 
any of the obligations under this Agreement, by operation of law or otherwise. Each Seller acknowledges that, to the extent such Seller has or may have rights of subrogation or reimbursement against any other Seller for claims arising out of this Agreement, those rights may be impaired or destroyed if Purchaser elects to proceed against any real property security of such other Seller by non-judicial foreclosure. That impairment or destruction could, under certain judicial cases and based on equitable principles of estoppel, give rise to a defense by a Seller against its obligations under this Agreement. Each Seller waives that defense and any others arising from Purchaser's election to pursue non-judicial foreclosure. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Seller expressly waives all rights, benefits and defenses, if any, applicable or available to it under either California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 580a or 726, which provide, among other things, that the amount of any deficiency judgment which may be recovered following either a judicial or nonjudicial foreclosure sale is limited to the difference between the amount of any indebtedness owed and the greater of the fair value of the security or the amount for which the security was actually sold. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Seller further expressly waives all rights, benefits and defenses, if any, applicable or available to it under either California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 580b, providing that no deficiency may be recovered on a real property purchase money obligation, or 580d, providing that no deficiency may be recovered on an obligation secured by a deed of trust on real property if the real property is sold under a power of sale contained in the deed of trust. No failure on the part of Purchaser to exercise, no delay in exercising and no course of dealing with respect to, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. No compromise, settlement, release, renewal, extension, indulgence, change in, waiver or modification of any of the obligations under this Agreement, or the release or discharge of any other Seller from its performance of any of the obligations of Sellers hereunder shall release or discharge any Seller from the performance of the obligations hereunder.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year first written above.
 


