FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20080307165141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d- 2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
On March 6, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Tesoro Corporation (the "Company"), acting upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, approved the termination of the Rights Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2007, between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company (the "Rights Agreement"). The Rights Agreement is described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 21, 2007, which is incorporated by reference herein.
In connection with the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, the Board approved, and the Company entered into, a First Amendment to Rights Agreement (the "Amendment"), which changes the final expiration date of the rights issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement (the "Rights") from November 20, 2010 to March 6, 2008. Accordingly, the Rights expired at the close of business on March 6, 2008 and the Rights Agreement has been terminated and is of no further force and effect. The Rights will be de-listed from the New York Stock Exchange, and de-registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
A copy of the Amendment is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.03 Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
The information set forth in each of Item 1.02 and Item 5.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
In connection with the termination of the Rights Agreement, on March 7, 2008, the Company filed a Certificate of Elimination (the "Certificate of Elimination") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to eliminate all references in the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to its Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock. A copy of the Certificate of Elimination is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The Company issued a press release on March 7, 2008 describing the Amendment and the termination of the Rights Agreement. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 7, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
          Tesoro Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), hereby certifies as follows:
Company
DGCL
     1. That the Board of Directors of the Company (the ""), pursuant to Section 151 of the DGCL and the authority granted in the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the ""), by resolution duly adopted, authorized the issuance of a series of 1,250,000 shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, without par value (the ""), and established the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, and authorized the filing of a certificate of designations (the "") with respect to such Series B Preferred Stock, which Series B Certificate of Designations was filed by the Company in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "") on February 4, 2008.
Board
Certificate of Incorporation
Series B Preferred Stock
Series B Certificate of Designations
Secretary of State
     2. That no shares of Series B Preferred Stock have been issued and, therefore, no shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding as of the date hereof.
     3. That the Board has adopted the following resolutions:
     that the Board hereby determines that no shares of the Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, and that no additional shares of such Series B Preferred Stock shall be issued pursuant to the Series B Certificate of Designations; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED,
     , that all matters set forth in the Series B Certificate of Designations with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock be eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation; and
FURTHER RESOLVED
     , that the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer; the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; the Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer; the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; the Vice President,
FURTHER RESOLVED
 
Chief Financial Officer; and the Vice President and Controller of the Company (collectively, the "") be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed to file a Certificate of Elimination with the office of the Secretary of State setting forth a copy of these resolutions whereupon all matters set forth in the Series B Certificate of Designations with respect to such Series B Preferred Stock shall be eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation; and
Authorized Officers
     that the Authorized Officers of the Company be, and they hereby are, authorized and directed, jointly and severally, for and in the name and on behalf of the Company, to execute and deliver any and all certificates, agreements, and other documents, take any and all steps and do any and all things which they may deem necessary or advisable in order to effect the purposes of each and all of the foregoing resolutions; and
FURTHER RESOLVED,
     that any actions taken by such Authorized Officers prior to the date of these resolutions that are within the authority conferred hereby are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved in all respects as the act and deed of the Company.
FURTHER RESOLVED,
     4. That, accordingly, all matters set forth in the Series B Certificate of Designations with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock be, and hereby are, eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be signed by its duly authorized officer as of this 7th day of March, 2008.

 
Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
     This First Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of March 6, 2008 (this ""), is between TESORO CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER & TRUST COMPANY, a New York corporation (the "").
Amendment
Company
Rights Agent
     , the Rights Agent and the Company are parties to that certain Rights Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2007 (the "");
WHEREAS
Rights Agreement
     , pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Company may, and the Rights Agent shall if the Company so directs, supplement or amend any provision of the Rights Agreement in any respect, without the approval of any holders of Rights, during such time as the Rights are redeemable;
WHEREAS
     , the Rights are currently redeemable;
WHEREAS
     , the Board of Directors of the Company has determined to amend the Rights Agreement in certain respects; and
WHEREAS
     , the Company has delivered to the Rights Agent a certificate stating that this Amendment complies with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement and has directed the Rights Agent to amend the Rights Agreement as set forth herein.
WHEREAS
     , in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the Company and the Rights Agent hereby agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
     Section 1. . Capitalized terms used in this Amendment but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Rights Agreement.
Certain Definitions
     Section 2. . Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following paragraph:
Amendments
     Section 7.
Exercise of Rights: Purchase Price; Final Expiration Date of Rights.
     (a) The registered holder of any Right Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein) in whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of the Right Certificate, with the form of election to purchase on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purposes together with payment of the Purchase Price for each one one-thousandth of one share of the Preferred Stock as to which the Rights are exercised, at or prior to the earliest of (i) the close of business on March 6, 2008 (the ""), or (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in (""), or (iii) the time at which such Rights are exchanged as provided for in .
Final Expiration Date
Section 23
Redemption Date
Section 24
 
     Section 3. . All other provisions of the Rights Agreement that are not expressly amended hereby shall continue in full force and effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Rights Agent and the Company acknowledge and agree that upon the Final Expiration Date (as amended hereby), the Rights Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect.
Remaining Terms
     Section 4. . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.
Severability
     Section 5. . This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such state applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such state.
Governing Law
     Section 6. . Descriptive headings of the several sections of this Amendment are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
Descriptive Headings; References
     Section 7. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and their respective seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
Investors:
Scott Phipps, Director, Investor Relations, (210) 283-2882
Media:
Natalie Silva, Director, Public Relations, (210) 283-2729
The Board of Directors of Tesoro Corporation ("Tesoro") (NYSE: TSO) today announced the termination of the Tesoro stockholder rights plan. Originally scheduled to expire on November 20, 2010, the plan was amended to accelerate the expiration date to the close of business yesterday, March 6, 2008. The plan required regular assessment by the Board, and the termination of the plan follows the Board's review consistent with that provision. Stockholders do not have to take any action as a result of this termination, and do not have to exchange stock certificates.
SAN ANTONIO  March 7, 2008 
"Both the implementation and termination of this plan reflect the Board's commitment to acting in the best interest of our stockholders, and we will continue to act in that regard," said Bruce A. Smith, Tesoro Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
As previously announced, the rights plan contained a number of stockholder friendly provisions designed to comply with RiskMetrics Group (ISS) policies on rights plans, including a "Qualified Offer" provision. The Board has reserved the right to take any action in the future that it determines in the exercise of its fiduciary duties to be necessary or advisable, which could include the adoption of a new stockholder rights plan.
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 Company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro, through its subsidiaries, operates seven refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 660,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 900 branded retail stations, of which more than 445 are company owned under the Tesoro, Shell, Mirastar and USA Gasoline brands.
About Tesoro Corporation


