FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20080617083024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
On June 17, 2008, Tesoro Corporation issued a press release to update its 2008 goals and 2008 second quarter guidance. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The press release is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
     (c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 17, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Investors:
Scott Phipps, Director, Investor Relations, (210) 283-2882
Media:
Natalie Silva, Director, Media Relations, (210) 283-2729
     - (NYSE:TSO) today said it was ahead of schedule in reducing borrowings associated with its revolving credit facility as a result of improved West Cost margins and inventory reductions. Borrowings under the company's revolving credit facility on May 31, 2008 were $305 million, down from $545 million at the end of March. The Company is on schedule to realize its goal of generating $750 million to $1 billion of operating cash flow through reduced operating and administrative costs, lower capital expenditures and reduced working capital driven mainly by inventory reductions.
SAN ANTONIO  June 17, 2008
Tesoro Corporation
     Total inventory on March 31, 2008 was approximately 30 million barrels of product and feedstocks. The company anticipates reducing this inventory by three million barrels by the end of June which should bring revolver borrowing to 2007 end-of-year levels. The Company expects to be unborrowed on the revolving credit facility at the end of July.
Hedge Strategy Update
     The company is currently reviewing hedging strategies to determine their effectiveness in today's environment of extraordinary energy market volatility. Historically the company has hedged less than twenty percent of its crude and products daily operating volumes by matching long-haul crude to day-of-processing margin. The hedged volumes have consisted primarily of foreign crudes supplied to our Pacific Rim and West Coast refineries, and a smaller volume for West Coast intermediate and finished products. The company has closed its crude derivative positions associated with this strategy and we expect second quarter earnings to be negatively impacted by approximately $125 million. Management is evaluating the premises for its hedging strategy and is evaluating potential alternatives.
Second Quarter Guidance
     Regional operating expenses are expected to be higher than prior guidance by $0.30 to $0.50 a barrel due to higher than expected energy costs. Following the commission of the
 
delayed coker at Golden Eagle, the Company will purchase an average of 120 MMBtu/day of natural gas. Each $1.00 change in natural gas price will impact the company by approximately $100,000 per day. Other guidance items including regional refinery throughput and corporate expenses are in-line with prior expectations.
     , a Fortune 150 Company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro, through its subsidiaries, operates seven refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 660,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 900 branded retail stations, of which over 445 are company operated under the Tesoro, Shell, Mirastar and USA Gasoline brands.
Tesoro Corporation
     
This release contains certain statements that are "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 concerning our expectations about future free cash flows and the impact of our hedging positions. For more information concerning factors that could affect these statements see our annual report on
Form 10-K
and quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q
, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which we become aware of, after the date hereof."


