FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20080220115827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 5.02(b) Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On February 15, 2008, Tesoro Corporation issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing that Dan Porter has been named Senior Vice President  Refining, replacing Bill Haywood who will become Senior Vice President  Strategy Development. The changes are effective March 1, 2008. Mr. Haywood is a named executive officer of the Company as defined in Regulation S-K Item 402(a)(3). Replacing Mr. Porter as Senior Vice President  Supply and Optimization is Joe McCoy who joined the Company on February 18, 2008. The Press Release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
          (c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 20, 2008
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
Investors:
Scott Phipps, Director, Investor Relations, (210) 283-2882
Media:
Natalie Silva, Director, Public Relations, (210) 283-2729
("Tesoro") (NYSE: TSO) today announced that Dan Porter has been named Senior Vice President  Refining, replacing Bill Haywood who will become Senior Vice President  Strategy Development. The changes are effective March, 1, 2008. Joe McCoy will join the company on February 18, 2008, as Senior Vice President  Supply and Optimization, replacing Porter.
SAN ANTONIO  February 15, 2008 
Tesoro Corporation
Porter has 29 years of energy industry experience and was managing the Mandan, N.D., refinery when Tesoro acquired it from BP in 2001. Since joining Tesoro, Porter has been the regional president of both the Northern Great Plains and Northwest regions of the company's refining operations and managed both the Mandan and Anacortes, Wash., refineries. He also has held the position of Senior Vice President  Marketing, leading the company's growth in both commercial and retail marketing. Currently, he is Senior Vice President  Supply and Optimization. Dan's vast industry experience and the leadership he has demonstrated while overseeing other major functions for Tesoro uniquely qualifies him for the refining position.
Haywood has 29 years of experience in the energy industry and joined Tesoro in 2002 as President of the California Region of Tesoro's refining operations where he managed the
 
Page 2 of 2
Golden Eagle refinery. Prior to joining Tesoro, Haywood served in various positions with both Ultramar Diamond Shamrock Corp. and Mobil Research and Development Corp. In his new position, Haywood will apply his years of industry experience to refine the company's 10-year business plan.
McCoy brings 38 years of diversified experience in various petroleum supply and trading positions. Prior to joining Tesoro, he was with Chevron and held positions as Vice President-Trading Capability and Vice President -Global Products Supply & Trading.
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 Company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro, through its subsidiaries, operates seven refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 660,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 900 branded retail stations, of which more than 445 are company owned under the Tesoro, Shell, Mirastar and USA Gasoline brands.
Please visit us at
www.tsocorp.com


