FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20100412171152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 12, 2010, a press release was issued by Tesoro Corporation (the "Company") stating that it will temporarily curtail operations at its Anacortes, Washington, refinery by shutting down crude processing until treating capacity involved in the recent incident can be returned to service. Unit shutdowns will begin later this month. Tesoro cannot predict when operations could resume; however, progress on the various investigations of the incident and the completion of unit repairs are both necessary for a restart. Other refineries as well as purchases from third parties will be utilized to meet supply needs.
The Company's employees at the facility will continue to be employed and receive full benefits. The temporary reduction of the Anacortes refinery operations is not expected to have a material impact on the company's financial performance.
The press release is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including the Press Release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibit.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 12, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Tesoro Corporation to Temporarily Curtail Anacortes Refinery Operations
(NYSE:TSO) will temporarily curtail operations at its Anacortes, Washington, refinery by shutting down crude processing until treating capacity involved in the recent incident can be returned to service. Unit shutdowns will begin later this month. We plan for all Tesoro employees at the facility to continue to be employed and receive full benefits.
Tesoro Corporation
Since the incident, the refinery has been producing primarily unfinished intermediate products that cannot be upgraded until the affected units have been returned to service or an alternate plan is developed. All available options are being considered. Tesoro cannot predict when operations could resume; however, progress on the various investigations of the incident and the completion of unit repairs are both necessary for a restart.
While the refinery operation is reduced, Tesoro expects to meet its customers' needs for refined products. Supplies from the company's other refineries in Hawaii, Alaska, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Salt Lake City will be utilized as well as purchases from third parties if necessary.
"Tesoro is committed to our employees, the community, and our customers." said Bruce Smith, Tesoro CEO, "We will fulfill our commitments to them during this difficult time."
The temporary reduction of the Anacortes refinery operations is not expected to have a material impact on the company's financial performance.
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro, through its subsidiaries, operates seven refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 665,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 880 branded retail stations, of which over 380 are company operated under the Tesoro, Shell, Mirastar and USA Gasoline brands.
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We have used the words "anticipate", "believe", "could", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may", "plan", "predict", "project", "should", "will" and similar terms and phrases to identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe the assumptions upon which these forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate and the forward-looking statements based on these assumptions could be incorrect.


