FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20101213140104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On December 13, 2010, Tesoro Corporation (or the "Company") will present to certain investors and sell-side analysts a review of our strategy, 2010 performance, and 2011 business plan including a summary of the 2011 capital program, in the attached slides (the "Slide Presentation"). The Slide Presentation is available on our website at , is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
www.tsocorp.com
The Slide Presentation is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including the Slide Presentation, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On December 13, 2010, the Company issued a press release relating to the planned initial public offering of Tesoro's Logistics business. The full text of the Press Release is set forth in Exhibit 99.2, which is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 13, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Tesoro Announces Plans for an Initial Public Offering of its Logistics Business
San Antonio, TXDecember 13, 2010Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) announced today its intention to contribute a portion of its logistics assets to a Master Limited Partnership (MLP) and sell a minority interest in the MLP in an initial public offering. The MLP is intended to support Tesoro's strategy to grow its logistics business. Included in the logistics assets expected to be contributed to the MLP are:
Tesoro expects the offering to raise approximately $200 million of gross cash proceeds. The net proceeds of the offering will be used by Tesoro for general corporate purposes, with a portion retained by the MLP for general partnership purposes.
A registration statement relating to the common units of the MLP to be sold in the offering is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but has not been filed or become effective. This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy, any securities. This announcement is being issued pursuant to, and in accordance with, Rule 135 under the Securities Act of 1933.
This announcement contains certain statements that are "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 concerning Tesoro's intention to conduct an initial public offering of interests in the MLP. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from the company's expectations. These statements contain words such as "intend," "will" and "expect" and can be impacted by numerous factors including the risk that the offering may not occur in its expected timeframe or at all, the securities market generally, the market for Tesoro's logistics business, changes in laws including with respect to tax and regulatory matters and other risks. For more information concerning factors that could affect these statements see Tesoro's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update or revise such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which we become aware of, after the date hereof.


