FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20100915150412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 10, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Tesoro Corporation (the "Company") approved the following for G. Scott Spendlove, the Company's Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, effective on that day.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 15, 2010, Tesoro Corporation will present to certain investors the information presented in the slides ("Slide Presentation") attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which is incorporated by reference. The Slide Presentation is also available on our website at .
www.tsocorp.com
The information above is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including the Slide Presentation, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1      Slide Presentation dated as of September 15, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 15, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


