FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20110309114009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Tesoro Corporation, (the Company) announced the appointment of Dan Romasko, age 47, as Executive Vice President, Operations, effective March 21, 2011 (the Commencement Date).  In this role, Mr. Romasko will assume responsibility for the Companys Refining, Marketing, Logistics and Marine organizations.
From August 2009 until March 2011, Mr. Romasko held the positions of Vice President, Operations Integrity and Vice President, Technical Operations and Competence with Suncor Energy, an integrated energy company with downstream operations.  In these roles he was responsible for  implementation of Suncors operational excellence strategy with particular emphasis on improving reliability, safety and environmental performance. Mr. Romasko also worked for Petro-Canada, a downstream energy company in Canada from July 2007 to August 2009 as the Gene ral Manager of their Fort Hills syncrude operations, which merged with Suncor in 2009.
Prior to joining Suncor, Mr. Romasko spent 20 years with ConocoPhillips, an international, integrated energy company with downstream operations. At ConocoPhillips he held leadership positions in transportation, pipeline, supply and trading, and global specialty products and built extensive experience in refining, including most recently serving as Operations Manager for the Borger, Texas refinery from April 2004 to July 2007.
In connection with his appointment, Mr. Romasko will receive an initial base salary of $560,000 and will be eligible to participate in the Companys annual incentive compensation program (the Program) with a target bonus opportunity equal to 75% of his base salary.  His actual bonus will be based on actual performance relative to corporate and business unit goals established under the Program.  On the Commencement Date, Mr. Romasko will receive non-qualified stock options with a grant date fair value of $250,000 (with a number to be determined using the Black-Scholes-Merton method).  He will also receive shares of restricted common stock with a grant date fair value of $750,000 (with a number to be deter mined based on the closing price of the Companys common stock on the  Commencement Date). The stock options and restricted stock will vest in three equal annual installments on the first three anniversaries of the Commencement Date.  Mr. Romasko will also receive a $350,000 signing bonus following the Commencement Date.
He is also entitled to participate in the Companys relocation, retirement, and other benefit plans and programs for which he is or will be eligible, including the Companys Executive Severance and Change in Control Plan, Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.   The Companys Executive Severance and Change in Control Plan provides financial protection in the event of certain fundamental events involving the control or existence of the Company as well as to provide a benefit in the event of an executives termination of employment under certain conditions that are beyond the executives control. The Companys Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan is a non-qualified p ension plan that provides eligible participants supplemental pension benefits in excess of those earned under the Companys qualified pension plan.  The Companys Executive Deferred Compensation Plan provides benefits for a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Company and its subsidiaries comparable to those not provided under the Tesoro Corporation Thrift Plan due to salary and deferral limitations imposed under current IRS regulations. 
 
The Press Release announcing the appointment of Mr. Romasko is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:           March 9, 2011
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
Tesoro Announces New Executive Vice President, Operations
 
- Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) announced today that Dan Romasko will join Tesoro as the new Executive Vice President, Operations, effective March 21, 2011. Romasko will assume responsibility for the Refining, Marketing, Logistics and Marine organizations.
SAN ANTONIO  March 9, 2011
Dans strong leadership capabilities and extensive industry experience will be a great asset to the company, said Tesoro President and CEO Greg Goff. We are pleased that he will be a part of the Tesoro organization.
Romasko joins Tesoro from Suncor Energy, where he most recently held the positions of Vice President, Operations Integrity and Vice President, Technical Operations and Competence. In these roles he was responsible for implementation of Suncors operational excellence strategy with particular emphasis on improving reliability, safety and environmental performance.
Romasko earned a Bachelors of Science degree in chemical engineering from Montana State University and worked for over 20 years with ConocoPhillips, where he built his extensive experience in the refining industry. At ConocoPhillips he held leadership positions in transportation, pipeline, supply and trading, global specialty products and refining. Romasko also worked for Petro-Canada as the General Manager of their Fort Hills syncrude operations, which merged with Suncor in 2009.
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro, through its subsidiaries, operates seven refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 665,000 barrels per day. As of December 31, 2010, our retail segment included a network of 880 branded retail stations under the Tesoro, Shell, USA Gasoline and Mirastar brands.
TM
Please visit us at www.tsocorp.com
Contact:
Investors:
Louie Rubiola, Director, Investor Relations, (210) 626-4355
or
Media:
Mike Marcy, Manager, External Affairs, (210) 626-4697


