FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20111221133022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported): December 20, 2011
Tesoro Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(210) 626-6000
(Registrant's telephone number,
including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if
changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
(d) Election of Directors.
Effective December 20, 2011, Mr. David Lilley became a member of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Tesoro Corporation (the Company) and concurrently the Board increased the number of directors from eight to nine. The Board determined that Mr. Lilley meets the independence requirements under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the Companys independence standards and that there are no transactions between Mr. Lilley and the Company that would require disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
Mr. Lilley will receive a pro-rated portion of the Companys non-employee director compensation which provides for an annual retainer of $220,000, payable 50% in cash and 50% in phantom stock units (cash denominated units which track the Companys stock price). In addition, Mr. Lilley will receive a grant of phantom stock units with a grant date fair value of $90,000, with the number of such phantom stock units determined based on the Companys closing stock price on December 20, 2011, or 4,038 units. Pursuant to the non-employee director compensation program, phantom stock units received as part of the annual retainer, or as an initial grant upon appointment as director, must be deferred for a minimum of three years before they may be distributed. At the time of this filing, the Board has not yet determined the committees to which Mr. Lilley is expected to be named.  The Press Release announcing Mr. Lilleys election is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Press Release issued December 21, 2011.
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 21, 2011
3
Index to Exhibits
4

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS:
Media:
        
210-626-7702
media@tsocorp.com
Investors:
    
Louie Rubiola
210-626-4355
TESORO ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF DAVID LILLEY TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SAN ANTONIO - December 21, 2011 - Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) today announced the appointment of David Lilley as a new member of the Company's Board of Directors, increasing the Board from eight to nine members, effective December 20, 2011.
Mr. Lilley is the former chairman, president and chief executive officer of Cytec Industries, Inc., a manufacturer of specialty chemicals and materials based in New Jersey with manufacturing and research facilities in 16 countries. Previously, Mr. Lilley held senior roles with American Home Products Corporation and American Cyanamid Company.
Mr. Lilley commented, I am pleased to be able to join the Tesoro Board of Directors and trust that I can make a contribution to the continuing success of the company.
Mr. Lilley earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in natural sciences and a Master of Arts degree in chemical engineering from Cambridge University, United Kingdom. He is currently a member of the board of directors for Rockwell Collins (NYSE:COL) and also of Public Service Enterprise Group (NYSE:PEG), and is a former director of Arch Chemicals. He also served as a director of the American Chemicals Council.
We are delighted to welcome David as a member of our Board of Directors, said Greg Goff, president and CEO. His experience, which crosses multiple industries, brings breadth and additional perspective to our Board.
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro, through its subsidiaries, operates seven refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 665,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes nearly 1,200 branded retail stations, of which over 375 are company operated under the Tesoro, Shell  and USA Gasoline(TM) brands.


