FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20110207160348.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A Amendment No. 1 is being filed to add additional disclosure to include amounts payable to relevant officers of the Severance and Change in Control Plan (the Plan) effective January 12, 2011 as filed in Current Report on Form 8-K of Tesoro Corporation dated January 12, 2011 (filed January 18, 2011) (the Current Report).  The other disclosures in Item 5.02 of that Current Report are restated without revision.
 
Tesoro Corporation Executive Severance and Change in Control Plan
On January 12, 2011, the Board of Directors of Tesoro Corporation (the Company) approved and adopted a new Executive Severance and Change in Control Plan (the Plan) effective January 12, 2011. The Plan reduces uncertainty to select executives of the Company and its subsidiaries in the event of certain fundamental events involving the control or existence of the Company as well as provides a benefit in the event of the termination of employment of certain executives, under certain conditions that are beyond the executives control. 
The Plan does not impact employees who are covered by separate employment agreements or change in control agreements.  Currently, G. Scott Spendlove, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and, effective February 1, 2011, Everett Lewis, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, are the only named executive officers included in the Plan. The Plan is incorporated herein by reference.
Eligibility for Severance Benefit.
An Executive Vice President is eligible to receive a severance benefit equal to the sum of his or her base salary and bonus, then in effect, multiplied by 1.75, if such executives employment with the Company or a subsidiary is terminated in the absence of a change in control by reason of (i) involuntary termination other than for cause or death or (ii) voluntary termination without the Executive Vice Presidents express written consent, where there is a material adverse change in the level of executive officer to whom the Executive Vice President regularly reports.
Executive Vice-Presidents.
A Senior Vice President of the Company is eligible to receive a severance benefit equal to the sum of his or her base salary and bonus, then in effect, multiplied by 1.5, if such executives employment with the Company or a subsidiary is terminated in the absence of a change in control by reason of involuntary termination other than for cause or death.
Senior Vice Presidents.
Change in Control Benefit.
Each Executive Vice-President shall be entitled to a change in control benefit, payable in cash, equal to 2.5 times his or her base salary and bonus. Furthermore, the Executive Vice-President and his or her eligible dependents are entitled to participate in the Company's group medical plan (excluding dental and vision benefits) for the 30-month period commencing on the date of the Executive Vice-President's separation from service.
Executive Vice-Presidents.
Each Senior Vice-President shall be entitled to a change in control benefit, payable in cash, equal to two times his or her base salary and bonus. Furthermore, the Senior Vice-President and his or her eligible dependents are be entitled to participate in the Company's group medical plan (excluding dental and vision benefits) for the 24-month period commencing on the date of the Senior Vice-President's separation from service.
Senior Vice-Presidents.
 
 
Tesoro Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
On January 12, 2011, the Companys Board of Directors also approved and adopted a new Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the Retirement Plan) effective January 12, 2011. The Retirement Plan is a non-qualified pension plan that provides eligible participants supplemental pension benefits in excess of those earned under the Companys qualified pension plan.  Currently there are no Company employees eligible to participate in the Retirement Plan.  The Retirement Plan is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
     (d)   Exhibits.
 
2
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 7, 2011
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
4


