FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20110210110530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)  Election of Directors.
 
 Effective February 4, 2011, Ms. Susan Tomasky became a member of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Tesoro Corporation (the Company) and concurrently the Board increased the number of directors from nine to ten effective immediately. The Board determined that Ms. Tomasky meets the independence requirements under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the Registrants independence standards and that there are no transactions between Ms. Tomasky and the Registrant that would require disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
   
 
 Ms. Tomasky will receive a pro-rated portion of the Companys non-employee director compensation which provides for an annual retainer of $220,000, payable 50% in cash and 50% in phantom stock units (cash denominated units which track the Companys stock price). In addition, Ms. Tomasky will receive a grant of phantom stock units with a grant date fair value of $90,000, with the number of such phantom stock units determined based on the Companys closing stock price on February 4, 2011, or 4,329 units. Pursuant to the non-employee director compensation program, phantom stock units received as part of the annual retainer, or as an initial grant upon appointment as director, must be deferred for a minimum of three years before they may be distributed. At the time of this filing Ms. Tomasky is expected to be named to the Audit Committee and one other yet to be determined committee of the Board.  The Press Release announcing Ms. Tomaskys election is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
   
 
 
                (d)   Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 10, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
4
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Page 1 of 1
 
Tesoro Corporation Announces Election of Susan Tomasky to Board of Directors
-
SAN ANTONIO  Feb. 10, 2011
Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) announced today the election of Susan Tomasky as a new member of the Board of Directors effective February 4, 2011, increasing its size from nine to ten members.
 
Ms. Tomasky currently serves as President of AEP Transmission, a division of American Electric Power Co, Inc.  The Columbus, OH, based company supplies electricity to over 5 million customers in 11 states, and is one of the largest power generators and distributors in the United States. She joined AEP in 1998 and has held a variety of executive roles there including chief financial officer, general counsel, strategic planning, finance, shared services and transmission.
 
"Im thrilled to join this dynamic board of directors, said Tomasky. I look forward to contributing my knowledge and experience to the long-term strategy and competitiveness of Tesoro in the global marketplace.
 
Ms. Tomasky has a diverse background focused mainly on the energy industry including government regulation and has served as general counsel for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. She also currently is on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.
 
"Susans diverse finance, strategy and regulatory experience within the energy industry will be invaluable to Tesoro, said Tesoro President and CEO Greg Goff." We are very happy to have her join our board."
 
Ms. Tomasky earned a Bachelor of Arts & Science degree from University of Kentucky, and a Law degree from George Washington University Law School.
 
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro, through its subsidiaries, operates seven refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 665,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes over 875 branded retail stations, of which over 380 are company operated under the Tesoro, Shell, Mirastar and USA Gasoline brands.
 
This press release contains certain statements that are "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 concerning Ms. Tomaskys assignment to certain Board Committees. For more information concerning factors that could affect these statements see our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which we become aware of, after the date hereof."
Contact:
Investors:
Louie Rubiola, Director, Investor Relations, (210) 626-4355
 
Media:
Mike Marcy, Manager, External Affairs, (210) 626-4697
 
 
 


