FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20121212083049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported): December 11, 2012
Tesoro Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(210) 626-6000
(Registrant's telephone number,
including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if
changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
On December 11, 2012, Tesoro Corporation (the Company) issued a press release (the Press Release) announcing that the Company's subsidiary, Tesoro Logistics LP, entered into a definitive agreement to purchase Chevron Pipe Line Company's Northwest Products System for $400 million. The Press Release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Slide Presentation
On December 12, 2012, the Company will present to certain investors and sell-side analysts a review of our strategy, 2012 performance, and 2013 business plan including a summary of the 2013 capital program, in the attached slides (the Slide Presentation). The Slide Presentation, available on our website at
www.tsocorp.com
, is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Press Release and Slide Presentation are being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report, including the Press Release and Slide Presentation, will not be subject to liability under Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated by reference.
     d)   Exhibits.
2
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 12, 2012
3
Index to Exhibits
4

Exhibit 99.1
Tesoro Logistics LP to Acquire Chevron Pipe Line Company's Northwest Products System
SAN ANTONIO - December 11, 2012
- Tesoro Corporation (NYSE:TSO) today announced that its affiliate, Tesoro Logistics LP (NYSE:TLLP) (TLLP or the Partnership), has executed a definitive agreement to purchase Chevron Pipe Line Company's Northwest Products System for $400 million. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close during the first quarter of 2013.
The Northwest Products System consists of the Northwest Product Pipeline, a 760-mile Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)-regulated common carrier products pipeline which extends from Salt Lake City, Utah to Spokane, Washington, a separate five-mile jet fuel pipeline to the Salt Lake City International Airport and the Northwest Terminalling Company consisting of the Boise and Pocatello, Idaho and Pasco, Washington refined products terminals, which are not subject to FERC regulation.
The purchase of the Northwest Products System is a unique opportunity to grow TLLP's portfolio of well positioned, fee-based logistics assets in the western US. The system allows the Partnership to capture operational synergies with its existing terminal assets in the region as well as significantly increase third-party revenue, said Greg Goff, President and CEO. This transaction is expected to generate annual EBITDA of about $33 million in the first twelve months post closing and be immediately accretive to distributable cash flow per unit.
The pipeline receives product from five refineries and one pipeline in the Salt Lake City area and is the primary transportation option from Salt Lake City to Pocatello, Boise, Pasco and Spokane. Delivery
1
volumes on the system averaged approximately 84,000 barrels per day in 2011. The terminals have a total storage capacity of 1.3 million barrels and delivered approximately 51,000 barrels per day in 2011.
This transaction is consistent with Tesoro's strategic priority of value-driven growth as we use the Partnership's low cost of capital to expand our logistics business, said Goff. These assets support our integrated value chain, capture third-party revenue and EBITDA growth and greatly expand the value of the general partnership which means significant value creation for Tesoro shareholders.
On Friday, December 7, 2012, TLLP launched an amendment and upsizing of its $300 million revolving credit facility to $500 million to support this and future growth opportunities. TLLP expects to maintain an appropriate balance of debt and equity financing in connection with this transaction.
A presentation with additional operating and financial disclosure around the transaction and the acquired asset can be found on the Partnership's website at
www.tesorologistics.com
.
2
TESORO LOGISTICS LP
RECONCILIATION OF FORECASTED EBITDA TO AMOUNTS UNDER US GAAP
(Unaudited, in millions)
(a) We define EBITDA as net income before net interest and financing costs and depreciation and amortization expenses. EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). EBITDA has important limitations as an analytical tool, because it excludes some, but not all, items that affect net income. EBITDA is not a measure prescribed by U.S. GAAP but is a supplemental financial measure that is used by management and may be used by external users of our condensed combined consolidated financial statements, such as industry analysts, investors, lenders and rating agencies to assess:
Tesoro Corporation, a Fortune 150 company, is an independent refiner and marketer of petroleum products. Tesoro, through its subsidiaries, operates seven refineries in the western United States with a combined capacity of approximately 675,000 barrels per day. Tesoro's retail-marketing system includes nearly 1,390 branded retail stations, of which 595 are company operated under the Tesoro
, Shell
and USA Gasoline brands.
This earnings release contains certain statements that are "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 concerning the timing and cash flows around certain logistics transactions; our expectations about capital spending and transaction synergies and statements concerning expanded revolver borrowing capacity. For more information concerning factors that could affect these statements see our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which we become aware of, after the date hereof.
3
Contact:
Investors:
Louie Rubiola, Director, Investor Relations, (210) 626-4355
Media:
Tesoro Media Relations, media@tsocorp.com, (210) 626-7702
4



