FILE:TSO/TSO-8K-20120207140708.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported): February 1, 2012
Tesoro Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(210) 626-6000
(Registrant's telephone number,
including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if
changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
Base Salary Increases
On February 1, 2012, the Board of Directors (the Board) of Tesoro Corporation (the Company) approved base salary adjustments for the Chief Executive Officer, and the Compensation Committee of the Board (the Compensation Committee) approved base salary adjustments for the other named executive officers, effective March 2, 2012, as follows:
2011 Incentive Compensation Payments
On February 1, 2012, the Board approved the payment under the 2011 Incentive Compensation Program (the 2011 ICP or the 2011 Program) for our Chief Executive Officer, and the Compensation Committee approved payments under the 2011 ICP for our other named executive officers, as follows:
2012 Incentive Compensation Program
On February 1, 2012, the Compensation Committee approved the terms of the 2012 Incentive Compensation Program (the 2012 ICP or the 2012 Program). In addition, the Board approved the target payout for our Chief Executive Officer and the Compensation Committee approved the target payouts for our other named executive officers.  Similar to the 2011 Program, the 2012 Program consists of two equally weighted components: Corporate and Business Unit performance outlined below. The performance results of the Company and the individual business units may be adjusted to take into account unbudgeted business decisions, unusual or non-recurring items, and other factors, as approved by the Compensation Committee, to determine the total amount, if any, available under the 2012 ICP. The Compensation Committee also has discretion to adjust individual awards based on their assessment of an individual executive's performance relative to successful achievement of goals, business plan execution, and other leadership attributes.
Component 1
-
Corporate Performance -
weighted as 50% of total bonus opportunity measured against target with the range of outcomes between 0% to 200%. Corporate performance metrics include the following:
2
Component 2
-
Business Unit Performance
- weighted as 50% of total bonus opportunity measured against target with the range of outcomes between 0% to 200%. Business Unit performance is measured through balanced scorecards with performance metrics including, but not limited to:
The business units used for each of the named executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer and the target payout amounts are as follows:
*Percentage to be applied to base salary earnings during the 2012 calendar year.
Form Agreement for 2012 Awards Under the Company's 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan
On February 1, 2012, the Compensation Committee approved (1) the form of 2012 Grant Letter (the PS Grant Letter) pursuant to which Performance Shares were issued under the Company's 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan) as well as the related Summary of Key Provisions for Performance Share Awards Granted (the PS Key Provisions) and (2) the form of 2012 Grant Letter (the MSU Grant Letter) pursuant to which market stock units were issued under the Plan, as well as the Summary of Key Provisions for Market Stock Unit Award Granted (the MSU Key Provisions). These documents were used to set forth the terms of 2012 grants of performance shares and market stock units to certain participants under the Plan, including the Company's named executive officers.
The PS Key Provisions contemplate that performance shares of the Company's common stock contingent upon the achievement of certain performance goals will vest at the end of the 36 month performance period which lasts from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2014. Upon vesting at the end of the performance period, awards will be adjusted based on achievement of the applicable performance conditions.
The MSU Grant Letter and MSU Key Provisions contemplate that market stock units pursuant to which shares of the Company's common stock will be earned at vesting based on stock price performance will vest at the end of the 36 month performance period which lasts from February 1, 2012 through February 1, 2015. Upon vesting at the end of the performance period, the number of shares earned will be adjusted by multiplying the factor of the average closing stock price for the 30 days prior to the vesting date over the average closing stock price for the 30 days prior to the grant date.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the PS Grant Letter, PS Key Provisions, MSU Grant Letter and MSU Key Provisions, which are filed as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
3
Grant of Awards to Named Executive Officers
On February 1, 2012, the Board approved the following grants of awards to the Chief Executive Officer and the Compensation Committee approved the following grants of awards to the other named executive officers:
Grants of Awards to Named Executive Officers
     d)   Exhibits.
4
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 7, 2012
  
5
Index to Exhibits
   
6

Exhibit 10.1
Date
Private and Confidential
First Name Last Name
FBA
Address
City, State Zip
Dear First Name:
I am very pleased to inform you that, effective
February 1, 2012
(the "
Award Date
"), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Tesoro Corporation (the "
Company
"), pursuant to its authority under the Tesoro Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "
Plan
"), has approved the following long-term incentive awards (the "
Awards
") to you. The following is a summary of the terms and conditions associated with these Awards. Capitalized terms not defined in this letter will have the definitions provided for such terms in the Plan.
Award No. 1
: # Performance Shares of the Company's common stock with a targeted value of $XXXXXX is contingent upon the achievement of
relative Total Shareholder Return
with our Performance Peer Group and S&P 500 Index. This Award will become eligible for vesting, subject to actual performance and continued employment, at the end of the 36 month performance period (January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2014).
Upon vesting at the end of the performance period, the Award will be adjusted based on the Company's relative Total Shareholder Return against the Performance Peer Group and S&P 500 Index to calculate the number of Shares that will be issued to you. Shares will be withheld by the Company to cover your applicable income and employment tax withholding(s) (at the minimum statutory level) and the net Shares will be credited to your account with Fidelity Stock Plan Services.
If you terminate employment due to Retirement or involuntary termination without Cause, you will be issued a pro-rated payout of Shares based on the number of full months worked (minimum of 12 months required) within the performance period based on the achievement of actual performance. Shares will be issued within 2  months after the end of the performance period. If you terminate employment due to death or disability, as defined under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to date and the Treasury Regulations issued thereunder (
Disability
), you will be issued a pro-rated payout of Shares based on the number of full months worked (minimum of 12 months required) within the performance period based on the achievement of target performance.
1
Shares will be issued as soon as administratively possible upon termination due to death or Disability. If you terminate employment due to a voluntary termination or termination for Cause prior to the vesting of the Performance Shares Award, your Award will be forfeited. In the event of a Change in Control of the Company, the Performance Shares Awards will be paid out at the greater of the achievement of target performance or the achievement of actual performance through a date determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (or in the absence of the Compensation Committee, the Board itself) prior to the Change in Control.
Award No. 2
: # Performance Shares of the Company's common stock with a targeted value of $XXXXX is contingent upon the achievement of
relative Return on Capital Employed
with our Performance Peer Group. This Award will become eligible for vesting, subject to actual performance and continued employment, at the end of the 36 month performance period (January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2014).
Upon vesting at the end of the performance period, the Award will be adjusted based on the Company's relative Return on Capital Employed against the Performance Peer Group to calculate the number of Shares that will be issued to you. Shares will be withheld by the Company to cover your applicable income and employment tax withholding(s) (at the minimum statutory level) and the net Shares will be credited to your account with Fidelity Stock Plan Services.
If you terminate employment due to Retirement or involuntary termination without Cause, you will be issued a pro-rated payout of Shares based on the number of full months worked (minimum of 12 months required) within the performance period based on the achievement of actual performance. Shares will be issued within 2  months after the end of the performance period. If you terminate employment due to death or Disability, you will be issued a pro-rated payout of shares based on the number of full months worked (minimum of 12 months required) within the performance period based on the achievement of target performance. Shares will be issued as soon as administratively possible upon termination due to death or Disability. If you terminate employment due to a voluntary termination or termination for Cause prior to the vesting of the Performance Shares Award, your Award will be forfeited. In the event of a Change in Control of the Company, the Performance Shares Awards will be paid out at the greater of the achievement of target performance or the achievement of actual performance through a date determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (or in the absence of the Compensation Committee, the Board itself) prior to the Change in Control.
2
These Awards have been granted under and are subject to the terms of the Plan unless specified within this Grant Agreement. These Awards are intended to satisfy the requirements for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to date. In addition, further information concerning the terms and conditions of these Awards are included with this letter.
Approximately two to three weeks from receipt of this letter, you will be able to view your Awards on the Fidelity Stock Plan Services website.
If this is the first time you are receiving these types of Awards, you will receive a Welcome Kit from Fidelity Stock Plan Services with additional information.
We highly value your contribution and commitment to the Company's success and believe that these Awards provide you a financial incentive that aligns your interests with the Company's shareholders.
Sincerely,
Gregory J. Goff
President and Chief Executive Officer
This material has been prepared and distributed by Tesoro Corporation
and Tesoro Corporation is solely responsible for its accuracy. Tesoro Corporation is not affiliated with Fidelity Investments (or any Fidelity entity).     
Stock plan recordkeeping and administrative services are offered through Fidelity Stock Plan Services, LLC.
Brokerage products and services are offered through Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, Member NYSE, SIPC.
3

Exhibit 10.2
Date
Private and Confidential
First Name Last Name
FBA
Address
City, State Zip
Dear First Name:
I am very pleased to inform you that, effective
February 1, 2012
(the "
Award Date
"), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Tesoro Corporation (the "
Company
"), pursuant to its authority under the Tesoro Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "
Plan
"), has approved the following long-term incentive award (the "
Award
") to you. The following is a summary of the terms and conditions associated with this Award. Capitalized terms not defined in this letter will have the definitions provided for such terms in the Plan.
Award
: # Market Stock Units (MSUs) with a targeted value of $XXXXX in which the number of Company's common stock earned at vesting is based on the stock price performance. This Award will become eligible for vesting, based on actual stock price performance and continued employment, at the end of the 36 month performance period (February 1, 2012 through February 1, 2015). Upon vesting at the end of the performance period, the number of Shares earned from your Award will be adjusted by the multiplying factor of the average closing stock price for the 30 days prior to the Vesting Date over the average closing stock price for the 30 days prior to the Grant Date. Shares will be withheld by the Company to cover your applicable income and employment tax withholding(s) (at the minimum statutory level) and the net Shares will be credited to your account with Fidelity Stock Plan Services.
If you terminate employment for any reason other than Retirement or a Change in Control prior to the vesting of your MSUs, you will forfeit all MSUs. If you terminate employment due to Retirement, you will be issued a pro-rated payout of shares based on the number of full months worked (minimum of 12 months required) within the performance period based on the achievement of actual performance. Upon a Change in Control, the number of Shares earned from your Award will be adjusted by the multiplying factor of the average closing stock price for the 30 days prior to the Change in Control over the average closing stock price for the 30 days prior to the Grant Date.
1
The Award has been granted under and is subject to the terms of the Plan unless specified within this Grant Agreement. This Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to date. In addition, further information concerning the terms and conditions of this Award are included with this letter.
Approximately two to three weeks from receipt of this letter, you will be able to view your Award on the Fidelity Stock Plan Services website.
If this is the first time you are receiving this type of Award, you will receive a Welcome Kit from Fidelity Stock Plan Services with additional information.
We highly value your contribution and commitment to the Company's success and believe that this Award provides you a financial incentive that aligns your interests with the Company's shareholders.
Sincerely,
Gregory J. Goff
President and Chief Executive Officer
This material has been prepared and distributed by Tesoro Corporation
and Tesoro Corporation is solely responsible for its accuracy. Tesoro Corporation is not affiliated with Fidelity Investments (or any Fidelity entity).     
Stock plan recordkeeping and administrative services are offered through Fidelity Stock Plan Services, LLC.
Brokerage products and services are offered through Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC, Member NYSE, SIPC.
2

Exhibit 10.3
Performance Share Awards Granted in 2012
Summary of Key Provisions
Nothing herein is intended to modify any referenced Plan. The applicable Plan is the legally governing document and is the final authority on the terms of such Plan unless the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (or in the absence of the Compensation Committee, the Board itself) specifies otherwise (either in an Award Agreement or otherwise)
.

Exhibit 10.4
Market Stock Unit Award Granted in 2012
Summary of Key Provisions
        
    
Nothing herein is intended to modify any referenced Plan. The applicable Plan is the legally governing document and is the final authority on the terms of such Plan unless the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (or in the absence of the Compensation Committee, the Board itself) specifies otherwise (either in an Award Agreement or otherwise).
        
    


