FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20021108081337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 --------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): November 7, 2002 ---------- THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER) DELAWARE (STATE OF JURISDICTION OF INCORPORATION) 1-11605 95-4545390 (COMMISSION FILE NUMBER) (IRS EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.) 500 South Buena Vista Street 91521 Burbank, California (ZIP CODE) (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES) (818) 560-1000 (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE) Not applicable (FORMER NAME OR ADDRESS, IF CHANGED SINCE LAST REPORT)
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure. Earnings Release. On November 7, 2002, the Registrant issued a press release reporting financial results and earnings for the Registrant's 2002 fiscal year, which ended September 30, 2002. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99(a). Conference Call Presentations. Also on November 7, 2002, the Registrant held a telephonic and Webcast conference call concerning the earnings release during which presentations were made by Michael D. Eisner, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Robert A. Iger, President and Chief Operating Officer; and Thomas O. Staggs, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Registrant. A copy of the text of this presentation is filed herewith as Exhibit 99(b). The Registrant believes that certain statements in the earnings release and the presentation may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the Registrant's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Registrant's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2001. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits 99(a) Press release of the Registrant dated November 7, 2002. 99(b) Text of conference call presentations by executives of the Registrant on November 7, 2002.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY By: /s/ DAVID K. THOMPSON David K. Thompson Senior Vice President Assistant General Counsel Dated: November 7, 2002

Exhibit 99(a) FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 7, 2002 THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY REPORTS EARNINGS FOR THE year ENDED September 30, 2002 BURBANK, Calif. - The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the year and fourth quarter ended September 30, 2002. On an as-reported basis, revenues for the year increased 1% to $25.3 billion and segment operating income decreased 28% to $2.9 billion. Net income and earnings per share were $1.3 billion and $0.63, respectively, for the year, compared to earnings and earnings per share of $891 million and $0.42, respectively, in the prior fiscal year. The prior-year figures have been adjusted to exclude the cumulative effect of accounting changes and to reflect the new goodwill and intangible asset accounting rules adopted in 2002. The 2002 results include a $216 million pre-tax gain ($0.07 per share) on the sale of investments recorded in the first quarter of the current fiscal year. The prior-year period included restructuring and impairment charges totaling $1.5 billion ($0.52 per share). On a pro forma basis, revenues for the year decreased from $25.8 billion to $25.4 billion and earnings were $1.1 billion or $0.55 per share, compared to $2.0 billion or $0.97 per share in the prior year. On an as-reported basis, revenues for the quarter increased 15% to $6.7 billion and segment operating income decreased 2% to $613 million. Net income and earnings per share were $222 million and $0.11, respectively, for the quarter, compared to earnings and earnings per share adjusted to reflect the new goodwill and intangible asset accounting rules of $188 million and $0.09, respectively, in the prior year quarter. For the quarter, pro forma revenues increased 13% to $6.7 billion, and pro forma earnings were $222 million or $0.11 per share, compared to $250 million or $0.12 per share in the prior-year period. See Table C for a reconciliation of as-reported earnings per share to pro forma earnings per share. For the fourth quarter of the current year, as-reported and pro forma results were the same in all respects. "As we come out of a difficult year, the Disney management team remains focused on reaping the benefits of the investments we've made over the last five years, further improving our cost structure and cash flow, and infusing all our products and services with the quality and creativity for which Disney is universally known," said Michael D. Eisner, chairman and CEO. "With our tremendous assets, our unrivaled global brands, and a realistic and experience-driven action plan, we anticipate in fiscal 2003 a return to solid EPS growth in excess of 20 percent. "As a content-driven company, we are especially encouraged by our recent creative successes on a number of fronts. ABC has seen a positive shift in ratings momentum, especially on Tuesday nights, led by the strength of great new shows for this season, including - "Eight Simple Rules," "Life With Bonnie" and "Less Than Perfect." Our studio is performing very strongly thanks to major hits like "Lilo & Stitch," "Signs," "Sweet Home, Alabama" and "The Santa Clause 2." And our new theme park, Disney's California Adventure, has seen a surge in attendance thanks to the opening of its inventive new fun zone, A Bug's Land. At our Company, creativity has always led the way and it is leading the way yet again." 1
Basis of Presentation To enhance comparability, the Company has presented operating results on a pro forma basis, which assumes the events discussed below occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2001, eliminating the one-time impacts of those events. The Company acquired Fox Family Worldwide, Inc. (subsequently re-named ABC Family Worldwide) on October 24, 2001. The acquisition resulted in a $5.2 billion increase in borrowings, consisting of outstanding debt of ABC Family and new short-and long-term debt issuances. Pro forma interest expense has been adjusted as if these incremental borrowings had been outstanding as of the beginning of fiscal 2001. Additionally, on October 1, 2001, the Company adopted new goodwill and intangible asset accounting rules, and accordingly, no longer amortizes substantially all of its intangible assets. In March 2001, the Company closed the GO.com portal business and converted its Internet Group common stock into Disney common stock. In addition, the pro forma earnings exclude restructuring and impairment charges, gain on the sale of businesses and the cumulative effect of accounting changes. Current year pro forma earnings have also been adjusted to exclude the first quarter investment gain. The Company believes that pro forma results provide additional information useful in analyzing the underlying business results. However, pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of the combined results that would have occurred had these events actually occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2001, nor are they necessarily indicative of future results. Operating Results Unless otherwise noted, the following discussion reflects pro forma results. Parks and Resorts Parks and Resorts revenues for the year decreased 8% to $6.5 billion and segment operating income decreased 26% to $1.2 billion. For the quarter, revenues decreased 1% to $1.7 billion and segment operating income decreased 25% to $235 million. Parks and Resorts results for the year reflected lower theme park attendance, spending and occupied room nights at the Walt Disney World Resort and lower spending at the Disneyland Resort. At the Walt Disney World Resort, declines in attendance and occupied room nights were driven by softness in the travel and tourism industry and in the economy as a whole. Lower spending at both the Walt Disney World Resort and Disneyland Resort primarily reflected special ticketing and other promotional programs throughout the year, along with a higher mix of local guests, who spend less on average per visit. Parks and Resorts results also reflected higher expenses associated with increased employee benefit and insurance costs. These decreases were partially offset by lower costs at both the Walt Disney World and Disneyland Resorts, resulting from reduced marketing expenses and a combination of both volume-related and permanent cost reduction initiatives. For the year, Parks and Resorts also benefited from higher royalties from the Tokyo Disney Resort, reflecting the addition of Tokyo DisneySea theme park and Tokyo DisneySea MiraCosta resort hotel, which opened during the fourth quarter of the prior year. The primary drivers for the quarter were lower attendance at both the Walt Disney World Resort and Disneyland Resort and higher costs at Walt Disney World, partially offset by higher guest spending at Walt Disney World due to ticket and 2
other price increases in the fourth quarter. Media Networks Media Networks revenues for the year decreased 4% to $9.8 billion and segment operating income decreased 49% to $990 million. For the quarter, revenues increased 6% to $2.4 billion and segment operating income decreased 60% to $147 million. See Table A for further detail of Media Networks results. Broadcasting results for the year and the quarter reflected lower advertising revenues due to lower ratings and advertising rates, as well as higher programming costs at the ABC television network. Additionally, the prior year benefited from a gain from the sale of certain film and television properties at ABC Family. The decreases were partially offset by improvements at the Internet Group driven by lower costs resulting from prior-year restructuring initiatives. Increased network programming costs reflected higher primetime series costs and three additional NFL games that aired within fiscal 2002. Results for the year also reflected the impact of the weak advertising market at the Company's owned television stations. These decreases were partially offset by insurance proceeds related to the loss of a broadcast tower in the first quarter of the current year. Disney's share of operating income from cable television activities, which consists of Disney's cable television networks and cable equity investments, decreased 15% and 35% to $1.1 billion and $201 million for the year and quarter, respectively. See Table B for a detail of operating income from cable television activities. Cable television results for both the year and the quarter were driven by higher sports programming costs at ESPN and higher advertising costs at both ESPN and Lifetime Television, partially offset by increased cable network affiliate revenues resulting from contractual rate adjustments. The year was also negatively impacted by the financial difficulties of Adelphia Communications Company and Kirch Media, lower advertising revenues at ESPN and at the cable equity investments and a write-down of an investment in a Latin American cable operator. The decreases for the year were partially offset by improvements in international broadcast operations. Studio Entertainment Studio Entertainment revenues for the year increased 11% to $6.7 billion and segment operating income increased 33% to $347 million. For the quarter, revenues increased 52% to $2.0 billion and segment operating income was $149 million, compared to an operating loss of $121 million in the prior-year quarter. Studio Entertainment results for the year were primarily driven by growth in worldwide home entertainment, partially offset by declines in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution. Improvements in worldwide home entertainment reflected strong DVD and VHS sales driven by successful animated titles including Disney/Pixar's Monsters, Inc., Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and Cinderella II: Dreams Come True along with the success of Hayao Miyazaki's Spirited Away, which was distributed in Japan and certain other markets by the Company. Worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution results declined due to weaker performances by live-action titles, despite the success of Monsters, Inc. and Signs. Studio Entertainment results for the fourth quarter were driven by increases in worldwide home entertainment and domestic theatrical motion picture distribution, partially offset by decreases in international theatrical motion picture distribution. 3
Increases in worldwide home entertainment for the quarter were driven by the successful release of Monsters, Inc. domestically and internationally, The Rookie domestically and Spirited Away in Japan, as well as higher overall DVD sales. Domestic theatrical motion picture distribution reflected the successful release of Signs and Sweet Home Alabama and the continued performance of Lilo & Stitch. International theatrical motion picture distribution reflected weaker performance of live-action titles in the current quarter compared to the success of Pearl Harbor in the prior-year quarter. Consumer Products Consumer Products revenues for the year decreased 7% to $2.4 billion and segment operating income decreased 6% to $394 million. Revenues for the quarter decreased 8% to $569 million while segment operating income decreased 8% to $82 million. Results for the year were driven by decreases in worldwide merchandise licensing revenues and lower sales at Disney Interactive, due to weaker performances of personal computer CD-ROM and video game titles. These declines were partially offset by increases at the Disney Store, primarily due to higher comparative store sales and cost savings, and growth at the Disney Catalog driven by strong online sales and cost reductions. Results for the quarter were driven by costs associated with the closure of certain Disney Stores and other downsizing initiatives, as the overall earnings from continuing Disney Stores, licensing, and publishing were roughly flat with the prior year. Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses Corporate and unallocated shared expense increased 3% to $417 million for the year and increased 15% to $140 million for the quarter. The increase for both the year and the quarter reflected costs for new financial and human resources information technology systems intended to improve productivity and reduce costs. The year also reflected higher litigation costs, partially offset by a gain on the sale of certain properties in the U.K. Net Interest Expense and Other Net interest expense and other is detailed as follows: Net interest expense and other decreased 27% to $465 million for the year 4
and 12% to $165 million for the quarter. The decrease for the year was due to a $216 million gain in the first quarter on the sale of the remaining shares of Knight-Ridder, Inc. that the Company received in connection with the disposition of certain publishing operations in fiscal 1997, partially offset by lower interest rates for the year. On an as-reported basis, net interest expense and other increased 9% to $453 million for the year and 27% to $165 million for the quarter, due to incremental borrowings in connection with the ABC Family acquisition. The Company's investment portfolio includes commercial aircraft leveraged leasing investments made between 1992 and 1994 totaling $289 million, which are diversified across three air carriers (United Airlines, Delta Airlines and Federal Express) and eleven aircraft. Risk of loss under these transactions is primarily related to the ability of the airlines to make underlying lease payments or, should the airlines be unable to pay such payments, our ability to generate sufficient cash flows either through the sale of the aircraft or secondary lease transactions to recover our net investment. We continue to monitor our investment in commercial aircraft leasing transactions given the current status of the airline industry and United Airlines, specifically. The inability of any of the airlines to make their lease payments could result in material charges related to a write-down of our investment in these airline transactions and cash payments of tax liabilities. Equity in the Income of Investees Income from equity investees, consisting primarily of Euro Disney, A&E Television, Lifetime Television and E! Entertainment Television, decreased 27% to $225 million for the year and 10% to $62 million for the quarter. The decrease for both the year and the quarter reflected higher advertising costs at Lifetime Television. The year also reflected declines at A&E Television driven by the soft advertising market, as well as the write-down of an investment in a Latin American cable operator. Stock Option Accounting Table D provides supplemental disclosure of the impact of stock options had the Company elected to adopt the fair value approach of expensing stock options pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. Accounting Changes Effective October 1, 2001, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). As a result of adopting SFAS 142, a substantial amount of the Company's intangible assets are no longer amortized. Pursuant to SFAS 142, intangible assets that are no longer subject to amortization must be periodically tested for impairment. During the first quarter, the Company made its assessments related to each reporting unit's intangible asset categorization and performed an impairment review, which indicated that the Company's intangible assets were not impaired. Effective October 1, 2000, the Company adopted AICPA Statement of Position No. 00-2, Accounting by Producers or Distributors of Films (SOP 00-2), and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133), and recorded one-time after-tax charges for the adoption of the standards totaling $228 million (or $0.11 per share) and $50 million (or $0.02 per share), respectively, in fiscal year 2001. 5
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Differences may result from actions taken by the Company, strategic initiatives and actions, as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including domestic and international economic conditions and political and military developments that may affect travel and leisure businesses; changes in consumer spending patterns and interests that may, among other things, affect the performance of the Company's theatrical and home entertainment releases; developments in the advertising market for broadcast and cable television programming; and changing trends affecting the appeal of branded consumer products. Changes in domestic competitive conditions and technological developments may also affect performance of all significant Company businesses. For more information on factors that may affect future performance, please refer to the discussion of "Forward-Looking Statements" in the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K. Editor's Note: The Company makes available its quarterly earnings releases, annual report to shareholders, fact book and SEC filings on its Investor Relations Web site located at http://www.disney.com/investors 6
The Walt Disney Company AS-REPORTED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited; in millions, except per share data) (1) The per share impacts of the film and derivative accounting changes for fiscal year were 2001 ($0.11) and ($0.02), respectively. (2) See Table C on page 18 for a reconciliation of as-reported earnings per share to pro forma earnings per share. 7
The Walt Disney Company PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (unaudited; in millions, except per share data) (1) The per share impacts of the film and derivative accounting changes for the year were ($0.13) and ($0.02), respectively. (2) See Table C on page 18 for a reconciliation of as-reported earnings per share to pro forma earnings per share. 8
The Walt Disney Company SEGMENT RESULTS For the Year Ended September 30 (unaudited, in millions) The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income. A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes, minority interests and the cumulative effect of accounting changes is as follows: (1) Segment earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is as follows: 9
The Walt Disney Company SEGMENT RESULTS For the Quarter Ended September 30 (unaudited, in millions) The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income. A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes, minority interests and the cumulative effect of accounting changes is as follows: (1) Segment EBITDA is as follows: 10
Table A Supplemental Segment Results (unaudited, in millions) 11
Table B CABLE TELEVISION ACTIVITIES (unaudited, in millions) Note: Amounts presented in this table represent 100% of the operating income for all of the Company's cable businesses. The Disney share of operating income represents the Company's ownership interest in cable television operating income. Cable networks are reported in "Segment operating income" in the consolidated statements of income. Equity investments are accounted for under the equity method and the Company's proportionate share of the net income of its cable equity investments is reported in "Equity in the income of investees" in the consolidated statements of income. 12
Table C The following table provides a reconciliation of as-reported earnings per share attributed to Disney common stock to pro forma earnings per share before the cumulative effect of accounting changes, excluding the investment gain in fiscal 2002 and restructuring and impairment charges and gain on the sale of business (unaudited). The impact on fiscal 2001 of the gain on sale of business and the 2002 pro forma impact of ABC Family each had less than a $0.01 impact. Note: Earnings per share amounts on this schedule may not add due to rounding. 13
Table D The following table reflects pro forma net income and earnings (loss) per share had the Company elected to adopt the fair value approach of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (in millions, except for per share data): These pro forma amounts may not be representative of future disclosures since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be granted in future years. The pro forma amounts assume that the Company had been following the fair value approach since the beginning of fiscal 1996. Fully diluted shares outstanding and diluted earnings per share include the effect of in-the-money stock options calculated based on the average share price for the period. The dilution from employee options increases as the Company's share price increases, as shown below: (1) Represents the incremental impact on fully diluted shares outstanding assuming the average share prices indicated, using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the tax effected proceeds that would be received from the exercise of all in-the-money options are assumed to be used to repurchase shares (2) Fully diluted shares outstanding for the year ended September 30, 2002 total 2,044 million and include the dilutive impact of in-the-money options at the average share price for the period of $20.40. At the average share price of $20.40, the dilutive impact of in-the-money options was 4 million shares for the year (3) Based upon fiscal 2002 earnings of $1,283 or $0.63 per share 14

Exhibit 99(b) Earnings Release Conference Call Presentation on November 7, 2002 by Michael D. Eisner, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Robert A. Iger, President, and Thomas O. Staggs, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Walt Disney Company MICHAEL D. EISNER Good afternoon. Today's earnings release marks the end of our fiscal year, a year that was a difficult one on many fronts, but also one from which we emerge stronger and better positioned than we were before it began. We are also releasing our results at a time when we're seeing a number of strong, positive trends. At our Studios, we are enjoying consistent creative success. From the traditional animation of "Lilo & Stitch" to the high-profile suspense of "Signs" to the modestly budgeted comedy of "Sweet Home Alabama" to last weekend's number-one opening of our holiday franchise, "Santa Clause 2," we are making financially sensible films that connect with audiences. At our theme parks, we are beginning to reap the benefits of the capital we have invested in our infrastructure an infrastructure that is now completely in a class of its own. The additions of Tokyo DisneySea, Walt Disney Studios Park at Disneyland Paris and Disney's California Adventure are transforming these assets into multi-day destination resorts. We saw instant success with Tokyo DisneySea and are generating strong attendance gains at our new Paris park, and the Disneyland Resort has recently seen local attendance increases thanks in part to the opening of a new fun zone for kids called A Bug's Land at California Adventure. As tourism bounces back, we expect that these new parks will help drive higher levels of attendance and profitability and increasing capital returns. Looking ahead, we should see some more of our investments drive results with the opening of the Mission: Space pavilion at Epcot in 2003, the addition of the Twilight Zone Tower of Terror at California Adventure in 15 months and, further down the road, the opening of Hong Kong Disneyland, for which we'll be breaking ground in January. In Media Networks, as Bob will discuss in detail, we have established a new model for managing our television assets that will give ABC a significant advantage in this era of ever-expanding consumer choice. At the same time, we continue to position ourselves to take advantage of our company's greatest competitive advantage in the marketplace namely, our strong and differentiated brands, including the Disney brand and ESPN. While it is true that over the last period of time we have been disappointed in terms of earnings and stock price, they have also comprised a period of investment in building and extending these key brands. All of the investments in Disney and ESPN have effectively reinforced their uniqueness and relevance. In doing so, they have created a protective moat around our assets. In the case of the Disneyland Resort and Walt Disney World, the moat is literal as well as figurative, but in every case, our branded assets are safer and more secure so they can thrive in the years to come. Unfortunately, much of this investment has come on line during a recession and the post-9/11 drop in tourism, which exacerbates the impact this new capital has on our current returns. Our level of capital expenditures has now dropped significantly and, in time, the economy is certainly going to improve. 1
Thus, there is good reason to anticipate strong fundamental growth at our company. Capitalizing on our investment in the company's brands was a central focus of the action plan that was unanimously adopted by the Disney Board of Directors at the end of the fourth quarter. The plan focuses on accelerated growth and long-term success based largely on the enduring uniqueness and appeal of Disney and ESPN. The action plan features a fundamental shift in emphasis from the substantial capital investment of the past five years to the marketing of that investment in the years ahead. Of course, we have important businesses outside of the Disney and ESPN brands, such as Touchstone, Miramax and the ABC network, which are also vital to the company. The network has been and will continue to be a valuable source of synergy and promotion for our other branded businesses, but it represents also one of our greatest earnings opportunities, since a ratings and ad market rebound could result in a swing of hundreds of millions of dollars to our bottom line. And so today we are here to report on a difficult year, but more importantly to let you know that we expect stronger results going forward, including net income growth for the full fiscal year of well over 20% in fiscal 2003. Here's Bob Iger to tell you more. ROBERT A. IGER Thank you, Michael. Disney is better positioned for growth and improving returns now than at any time in the recent past. This fact is especially evidenced at our Studios, where we are seeing both improved creative results and financial returns under Dick Cook's leadership. Between 2000 and 2002, operating income at the Studios quadrupled, driven by our commitment to make profitability and return on capital key factors in the management of our businesses. Controlling our investment in both live action and animated films remains a priority. Presently, our investment level in live-action production is roughly $500 million lower than our 1998 peak. In our animation division we have reduced costs by adopting new digital production techniques that greatly streamline the production process. Since "Tarzan"`s release in 1998, the direct cost of production for Disney animated films has been cut in half, even taking into account "Treasure Planet," which is admittedly an expensive project since it was green lit under the old cost structure. Our animated sequel business also has contributed to improving results at the Studios, as we continue to build franchises for the company with modest investment. To date, we have produced thirteen animated sequels at a combined direct production cost of less than $200 million. We expect these films to generate more than $1 billion in profit over their lifetime. This sequel business is just one example of the unparalleled strength and leverageability of our film library. In 2003, we'll add to this collection with the theatrical releases of "Jungle Book II" and "Piglet's Big Movie" and with the home video sequels to "Dumbo," "Lilo & Stitch" and "101 Dalmatians." We have also been addressing performance issues at Consumer Products, and here too we're seeing benefits from the changes we've made. Under the leadership of Andy Mooney, we've restructured merchandise licensing to best leverage the Disney brand and characters for both ourselves and our licensing and retail partners. We are beginning to see traction in this business as a result, particularly in the home furnishing and food categories. Our Disney Store operation has also turned a corner and is delivering solid performance. We attribute much of this success to a strategy designed to offer more targeted product focused on plush and our "Disney Princess" category, 2
spearheaded by the President of Disney Stores, Peter Whitford. The Disney Princess line is a great example of how we can build our consumer products business and continue to grow the Disney brand. By using the Disney Stores to illustrate the potential of the Disney Princess product line, we now have major licensing arrangements with 89 companies. The Disney Princess category has increased from $140 million in worldwide retail sales in 2001 to an estimated $1.3 billion in 2003. As is true in our animated sequels business, we are leveraging the strength of our Disney brand and the franchise potential of the Disney library to create new growth opportunities. We're optimistic about what we're seeing in Consumer Products and expect the positive momentum to continue into 2003. At ABC, we entered the fall season with a clear strategy to recapture market share, and thus far, we have achieved ratings momentum by delivering solid improvement on Tuesday and Wednesday nights - a goal that we said was critical to rebuilding the schedule. The addition of three great new Tuesday night comedies, "8 Simple Rules," "Life with Bonnie" and "Less Than Perfect," plus returning series "According to Jim" have moved ABC from 4th place on Tuesdays last season to 1st place on a season-to-date basis. On Wednesdays, ABC wins the 8:00 to 10:00 pm time period, due to the strength of our comedy block of "My Wife and Kids" and "George Lopez" that leads into "The Bachelor," now an important new franchise for ABC that is outperforming "West Wing" at 9:00 pm. With the exception of one comedy, ABC owns all of these series, which is critical to creating long-term growth and profitability for the company. Lloyd Braun and Susan Lyne are aggressively developing for mid-season and have a strong slate to rejuvenate Thursday night, which we will announce in the coming weeks. For mid season, we're particularly excited about our late night show, Jimmy Kimmel, which we think is a strong entry into a time slot in which ABC has not had a comedy presence. Beyond mid-season at ABC - which includes the two biggest events in television, the Super Bowl and the Academy Awards - we have the NBA finals and we have what we believe to be strong development for the summer and next fall. Overall, ABC is in first or second place among young adults on six nights of the week, which has improved our competitive position in the first quarter ad market. Scatter pricing in the fiscal first quarter is up more than 25% over upfront CPMs and advertisers have retained 90% of the options they acquired in the upfront market for the second quarter. The lead-time for buying ad time has lengthened as available inventory has become scarce due to high sell-out levels. We're seeing similar pricing increases in the first quarter at our television stations and radio operations, with strength across all business categories. Despite the strengthened current ad market and ratings momentum, ABC network's losses in 2003 will still be substantial, especially since we are absorbing extra rights and production costs for the Super Bowl. However, looking beyond 2003, we believe that our rebuilding efforts will drive the ABC Network into profitability. As we continue our turnaround at ABC, the company is also working to capitalize on the strength of network television from a broader perspective by creating mutually reinforcing programming outlets. The programming match between our cable networks and the day parts of the ABC Television Network affords Disney a unique opportunity to amortize our programming costs and to expand awareness and viewership of our programming. ABC's hugely successful Daytime dramas made it possible to launch and program SOAPnet. The reach and programming strength of our Disney branded cable networks 3
- - led by Anne Sweeney - drives new TV animation franchises, reinforced by ABC's Saturday morning children's programming and our "Wonderful World of Disney" show. And ABC Sports is an important sales, promotional and programming partner to ESPN. Similarly, we think ownership of both ABC Family and the ABC Network provides exciting possibilities for differentiating ABC Family and for building viewer awareness and sharing costs across both platforms. In the next few months, you'll begin to see some key changes unveiled at ABC Family. To continue building market share, Angela Shapiro has developed programming and marketing plans that target today's modern and often non-traditional family during the day, with a principal focus on adults 18 to 34 in primetime. ABC Family launched a primetime block of ABC's strong new comedies called "ABC plus" in October, and in January the network will premiere its new on-air campaign, schedule and original programming. Michael mentioned the importance of ESPN to this company. George Bodenheimer and his team have established a market position that will serve our shareholders well over the long term. A year ago, we stated that ESPN would increase its ratings and we've met that goal. In the September quarter, ratings for males 18 - - 34 were up 25% for total day versus last year, and up 36% in prime time. ESPN achieved comparable increases for total households. We believe that our improved performance is sustainable due to our unrivaled programming assets that include the NFL, Major League Baseball, the NHL, the NBA, "SportsCenter" and the X Games, to name a few. ESPN's ratings performance has led to strong NFL and college football advertising sales and we're encouraged by the strength we're just now seeing with NBA sales in the marketplace. This strength, coupled with the long-term agreements we have in place with the majority of cable operators, gives us confidence that ESPN is positioned to deliver exceptional growth for years to come. Turning now to the Parks... Having invested heavily to build our asset base, our job now under the new leadership of Jay Rasulo, is to increase the utilization of these assets. We expect visitation to Disney theme parks to increase in response to our expanded asset offering, and we're working to intensify this demand through our Customer Relationship Management initiative, which allows us to target potential consumers and under-penetrated segments with direct offers and to develop more relevant new products for specific segments. We believe that over the next few years we will be able to play a significantly more active role in helping our guests plan their vacations, thereby driving increased length of stay and per capita spending. In the theme park arena, the strength of our brand in the marketplace is significant and enduring. Our parks are the number one tourist destination on each continent in which we have a presence. In addition, our overseas parks represent important beachheads that also help further establish the Disney brand in key international markets. Not everything impacting our results is within our control, but across our businesses, we are focused on improving current returns and our competitive position by managing as effectively and efficiently as possible. Given the progress we've made, we have every reason to believe that we are on the path to renewed growth in both profitability and cash flow. With that, I'll turn the call over to Tom. 4
THOMAS O. STAGGS While 2002 presented a year of challenge for Disney, it was also a year in which we demonstrated our focus on free cash flow, continued to improve the efficiency of our operations, and increased the success of our creative product. At our Studios, results for the quarter and for the year were driven largely by a strong home video slate and continued growth in DVD. In Q4, we shipped roughly 20 million units of "Monsters, Inc." in the United States alone and broke records for single-day and single-week consumer sales. DVD units accounted for 60% of "Monsters Inc." sales. Our strong home video results were also driven by the release of "The Rookie," "Peter Pan II" and "Tarzan & Jane," which, on a combined basis, sold almost 11 million units. At our theme parks, the quarter played out a bit better than we had expected at the time of our last conference call. Although local attendance was relatively strong during the first three quarters of the year, it was somewhat softer in the fourth quarter, especially at Walt Disney World, reflecting continued aggressive discounting by the competition. However, we saw better-than-anticipated trends in our international visitation. Whereas in the June quarter international attendance was off by approximately 35%, last quarter international visits were off roughly 20%, with the greatest support coming from the U.K. All told for the year we saw attendance declines of 11% at Walt Disney World. Disneyland attendance for fiscal 2002 was slightly higher than the prior year, reflecting the fact that our California Adventure park was only open for about two-thirds of the year during 2001. Theme park margins in the fourth quarter were also impacted by the increasing cost of employee benefits and, to a lesser extent, increased insurance premiums. We saw strength in merchandise and food and beverage per capita spending at our domestic parks, with these figures increasing by low-to-mid single digits for the quarter. Occupancies at our resort hotels were on par with last year. As we've discussed all year, the Disney Cruise Line continues to deliver exceptional performance, boasting percentage occupancies in the high 90's, with load factors of roughly 150%. At the same time Disney Cruises continue to receive exceptional guest satisfaction ratings that are among the highest for any of our properties. Despite this year's downturn, our theme parks segment was a significant contributor to overall free cash flow for the year. As Michael discussed, our investment requirements at the Parks have come down considerably. We've demonstrated that fact recently as our capital expenditures at the parks came in at roughly $700 million for fiscal 2002, and we expect fiscal 2003 to come in under $800 million as well. Bob Iger talked about the positive momentum we're seeing at ABC. As you might have expected, results in Q4 were still impacted by ratings underdelivery, since the new season got underway only at the very tail end of the quarter. However, the advertising make-good requirements that affected the network last year have not carried over into the new season. While overall operating margins for the broadcast segment declined, we saw dramatic improvement at both our TV stations and radio operations, buoyed by the strength of teh ad market. For the quarter, operating profit for our TV stations and radio operations increased by roughly 50%. It's also worth noting that our internet operations have reached the breakeven run-rate we previously projected. In cable networks, an increase in subscriber revenue across all of our ESPN networks drove top-line growth for the quarter. Revenue gains, however, were offset by rights fees for the addition of two NFL games to ESPN's September's line-up versus the prior year. 5
At our other cable business, both Disney Channel and SOAPnet continued to see improving results, and at ABC Family ratings continue to build. Since the acquisition, ABC Family ratings have grown by 33% with adults 18-34. While this ratings growth bodes well for the future, the channel continues to face the pressure that many general entertainment networks are feeling with respect to ad spending, and thus results were off for both the quarter and the year. In Consumer Products, our operating income for this year came in very close to that of the prior year. Our results reflected an industry-wide decline in PC game sales and some softness in licensing. However, during Q4 we saw firming in our licensing business, reflecting in part the success of our new product lines. The Disney Stores contributed positively to performance, helped by strong comparative store sales throughout the year and the closure of underperforming stores, which has allowed us to improve our cost base. Turning to the balance sheet, at the end of the fiscal year our net debt stood at $12.9 billion and we expect to see that figure decline somewhat further during fiscal 2003. Our capital expenditures for the year totaled just over $1 billion. Our focus on capital enabled us to deliver after-tax free cash flow for the year of approximately $1.2 billion, nearly as much as we generated in 2001, despite this year's tough environment. Looking ahead, although the environment is still uncertain, we expect to build momentum throughout the course of 2003 and to deliver earnings for the full year that are 20-30% above the 55 cents per share we posted in 2002. We also expect to deliver a similarly strong earnings growth rate for 2004. With regard to current business trends, even though ratings momentum is positive at ABC, we've said in the past that the fruits of our labor there will likely not be seen on the bottom line until the future. At our cable businesses, in the first two quarters of fiscal year 2003 we'll see the impact of higher sports programming costs - most notably Major League Baseball and the NBA, but expect to see considerable growth in earnings from cable thereafter. We also expect to see overall growth in 2003 from our licensing business and continued momentum from the Disney Stores, despite the fact that in the near term we will be impacted somewhat by the longshoremen's strike here on the west coast. With regard to Theme Parks, consumers continue planning vacations with shorter than normal lead times, making it difficult to predict results for the upcoming holiday season and the ultimate timing and pace of the upturn in this business. However, we are extremely well positioned in this segment and we expect to deliver strong free cash flow in 2003 and even greater amounts in the years ahead. At the studio, key swing factors for the year will be the results we see in our major new releases, where we are looking to build on our recent creative successes with key titles such as "Treasure Planet" and the Miramax release "Chicago," as well as "Pirates of the Caribbean" and the Disney/Pixar film "Finding Nemo," both of which are coming out next summer. What remains certain is that the challenging environment has done nothing to diminish the strength of Disney's unrivaled brands, characters and entertainment franchises, or our ability and commitment to deliver strong earnings and increasing returns on capital and cash flow to our shareholders for years to come. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Michael. MICHAEL D. EISNER 6
I came to Disney at a time when the market did not appreciate the true potential of this company. I believe we are at a similar point in time when, amid all of the bearish sentiment in the market, some investors are not seeing the inherent potential in Disney's extraordinary strength and depth. To help further strengthen our company and its long-term outlook, we have devoted a great deal of energy this year to instituting new practices in corporate governance. Over time, you will see the size of the Board and its committees come down, with a greater representation of truly independent directors. This is being done in pursuit of the goal we all share -- to enhance accountability and encourage the flow of fresh ideas in service to our shareholders. Most importantly, we are executing on an action plan that involves numerous initiatives across our businesses that share several common themes: Number one, to capitalize on the investment we've made in our key branded assets, especially those under the ESPN and Disney banners. Number two, to improve the cost structure and value generation in our key operations, including feature animation and the ABC network. Number three, to consistently infuse all our products with quality and creativity -- from the creation of new product lines and categories at Consumer Products, to great new attractions like A Bug's Land at California Adventure, to the development of great films like Santa Claus 2 and new television series like 8 Simple Rules. With the assets that are now in place, our transparent and solid balance sheet, our world-class brands which are stronger than ever, our world-class management team that is also stronger than ever, and an action plan that is realistic and born of experience, we anticipate that this year will see a return to the kind of growth that has typified Disney since 1984. We expect that, as our new trajectory becomes clear in fiscal year 2003, the markets will come to recognize that it is real and Disney will once again move forward, adding to its legacy with a new era of growth. WINIFRED MARKUS WEBB [Senior Vice President - Investor and Shareholder Relations] Let me remind you that certain statements in today's press release and on this conference call may constitute "forward-looking statements" under the securities laws. These statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in light of future decisions by the company and by market, economic, political, competitive, regulatory and technological developments beyond the company's control. For more information about key risk factors, please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. * * * * * 7


