FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20030219125706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)
Not applicable.
(b)
Not applicable.
(c)
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 25
Item 1.    
General Information
.    Furnish the following information as to the trustee:
(a)
Name and address of each examining or supervising authority to which it is subject.
Comptroller of the Currency, Treasury Department Washington, D.C. 20230
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Washington, D.C. 20429
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco San Francisco, CA 94120
(b)
Whether it is authorized to exercise corporate trust powers.
The trustee is authorized to exercise corporate trust powers.
Item 2.    
Affiliations with Obligor
.    If the obligor is an affiliate of the trustee, describe each such affiliation.
None with respect to the trustee.
No responses are included for Items 3-14 of this Form T-1 because the obligor is not in default as provided under Item 13.
Item 15.    
Foreign Trustee
.    Not applicable.
Item 16.    
List of Exhibits
.    List below all exhibits filed as a part of this Statement of Eligibility. Wells Fargo Bank incorporates by reference into this Form T-1 exhibits attached hereto.
*
Incorporated by reference to exhibit number 25 filed with registration statement number 333-87398.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, the trustee, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, has duly caused this statement of eligibility to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, all in the City of Los Angeles and State of California on the day of 19 of February, 2003.
th
February 19, 2003
Securities and Exchange Commission Washington, D.C. 20549
Gentlemen:
In accordance with Section 321(b) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, the undersigned hereby consents that reports of examination of the undersigned made by Federal, State, Territorial, or District authorities authorized to make such examination may be furnished by such authorities to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon its request thereof.
I, James E. Hanson, Vice President of the above-named bank do hereby declare that this Report of Condition has been prepared in conformance with the instructions issued by the appropriate Federal regulatory authority and is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
We, the undersigned directors, attest to the correctness of this Report of Condition and declare that it has been examined by us and to the best of our knowledge and belief has been prepared in conformance with the instructions issued by the appropriate Federal regulatory authority and is true and correct.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 25
SIGNATURE
Exhibit 6
Exhibit 7


