FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20041118164127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On November 18, 2004, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter and year ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99(a).
     The Registrant believes that certain statements in the earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the Registrant's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Registrant's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003.
     This information furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition", including the exhibit related thereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any disclosure document of the Company, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such document.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 18, 2004

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 18, 2004
     BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported higher fourth quarter earnings and significantly increased earnings and record cash flow for their fiscal year ended September 30, 2004.
 
     Diluted earnings per share for the year were $1.12, an increase of 72% compared to prior-year earnings per share of $0.65 before the cumulative effect of an accounting change.
     For the fourth quarter, diluted earnings per share were $0.25, compared to $0.20 in the prior-year fourth quarter.
     "By any measure, 2004 was an outstanding year for The Walt Disney Company," said Disney CEO Michael Eisner. "All three of our core financial measures  cash flow, earnings per share and return on invested capital  showed strong growth, and we increased our operating income at each of our operating segments demonstrating the balanced nature of the company's performance. As we begin the new fiscal year, our focus remains on delivering long-term value to our shareholders through the continued creation of the kind of outstanding content that widens the global appeal of our great existing brands and helps build exciting new ones."
 
     Revenues, segment operating income, income before the cumulative effect of accounting change, net income and diluted earnings per share amounts for the year and quarter are as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):
     Earnings per share for the current year include a benefit in the fourth quarter from the favorable settlement of certain income tax matters ($120 million or $0.06 per share). This benefit was partially offset by restructuring and impairment charges ($64 million or $0.02 per share) in connection with the sale of the Disney Stores in North America, the majority of which were recorded in the third quarter. Earnings per share for the prior year included a $0.04 negative impact due to the write-off of an aircraft leveraged lease investment during the first quarter and a $0.03 benefit from the favorable settlement of certain income tax matters in the fourth quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company adopted EITF
 
No.00-21, which resulted in an after-tax charge of $71 million for the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle as of the beginning of fiscal 2003.
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables,
Operating Results
Media Networks
     Media Networks revenues for the year increased 8% to $11.8 billion, and segment operating income increased 79% to $2.2 billion. For the quarter, revenues increased 10% to $2.9 billion and segment operating income increased 50% to $448 million from $298 million in the prior year. See Table A for further detail of Media Networks results.
     For the year, segment operating income reflected stronger performance at ESPN as a result of higher affiliate and advertising revenues and lower NFL rights amortization, improvements at the ABC Television network primarily due to higher advertising revenue, increases at the domestic and international Disney Channels driven by higher affiliate revenue, and growth at ABC Family due to higher advertising revenue.
     Segment operating income attributable to broadcasting improved by $208 million for the year driven by higher advertising revenues at the ABC Television Network and lower programming and production costs, partially offset by higher pension and other administrative costs and higher costs for the Company's MovieBeam venture. Increased advertising revenues were primarily due to higher rates at the ABC television network, partially offset by lower ratings. Lower programming and production costs reflected lower sports programming costs due primarily to the airing
 
of the Super Bowl in the prior year. Additionally, the prior year included higher news production costs due to coverage of the military conflict in Iraq.
     For the fourth quarter, segment operating loss attributable to broadcasting declined by $4 million, as higher advertising sales at the ABC television network were largely offset by higher administrative costs and higher MovieBeam costs.
     Segment operating income attributable to cable increased by $748 million for the year, primarily due to higher affiliate and advertising revenue at ESPN, lower NFL programming costs at ESPN, higher affiliate revenue at the domestic and international Disney Channels, the favorable impact of a bankruptcy settlement with a cable operator in Latin America and higher advertising revenue at ABC Family. These increases were partially offset by other programming, sales, marketing, pension, and administrative cost increases. Higher affiliate revenue at ESPN was primarily due to contractual rate adjustments while increases at the Disney Channels were primarily due to subscriber growth. Lower NFL programming costs were primarily due to lower amortization for the NFL contract due to commencing the three-year option period. The increase in advertising revenue at ABC Family was primarily due to increased ratings.
     For the fourth quarter, segment operating income attributable to cable increased by $146 million, primarily due to similar revenue gains as discussed above, partially offset by higher sales, marketing and programming cost increases.
 
Parks and Resorts
     Parks and Resorts revenues for the year increased 21% to $7.8 billion and segment operating income increased 17% to $1.1 billion. For the quarter, revenues increased 31% to $2.2 billion and segment operating income increased 25% to $282 million. The consolidation of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland (principally Euro Disney) contributed $715 million of the increase in revenue and $64 million of the increase in operating income for the year and $383 million and $49 million of the increase in revenue and segment operating income for the quarter, respectively. Excluding these consolidation impacts, revenue grew $623 million (or 10%) and segment operating income increased $102 million (or 11%) for the year; and for the quarter, revenue grew $131 million (or 8%) and segment operating income increased $8 million (or 4%). See tables C, D, E, F, and G for the impact of consolidating Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
     Excluding the consolidation impacts, revenue and operating income growth for the year was primarily driven by increases at Walt Disney World. Growth for the quarter reflected improvements at Disneyland primarily due to increased per capita guest spending driven by ticket price increases and less discounting.
     Revenue and operating income growth at the Walt Disney World Resort for the year was primarily driven by higher theme park attendance, hotel occupancy and guest spending at the theme parks. Higher visitation at Walt Disney World from both domestic and international tourists as well as Florida residents reflected the continued success of Mission: SPACE, Mickey's PhilharMagic and Disney's Pop Century Resort
 
and improvements in travel and tourism. Increased guest spending was driven by ticket price increases and less discounting. For the quarter, operating income at Walt Disney World decreased slightly as increased guest spending was offset by decreased attendance as a result of the Florida hurricanes, which resulted in the temporary closure of the theme parks and increased costs. Higher guest spending at Disneyland for the year and quarter was also driven by ticket price increases and less discounting.
     Costs and expenses increased $1.2 billion for the year, of which, $651 million was due to the consolidation of Euro Disney and, to a lesser extent, Hong Kong Disneyland. For the quarter, costs and expenses increased $457 million, of which $334 million was due to the consolidation of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland. The remaining increases of $521 million and $123 million, for the year and quarter, respectively, were driven primarily by higher labor and other volume related expenses and increased costs for employee benefits, marketing and sales initiatives, depreciation, new product offerings and information technology.
Studio Entertainment
     Studio Entertainment revenue for the year increased 18% to $8.7 billion and segment operating income increased 7% to $662 million. For the quarter, revenues decreased 14% to $1.9 billion and segment operating income decreased to $23 million from $205 million in the prior-year quarter.
     Segment operating income growth for the year was primarily driven by improvements in worldwide home entertainment and television distribution, partially offset by declines in worldwide theatrical motion
 
picture distribution. The improvement in worldwide home entertainment revenues was driven by higher DVD sales of current year titles including Disney/Pixar's , and Platinum Release as compared to the prior year, which included and . Television distribution growth was driven by higher pay television revenues due to better performing live-action titles. Lower theatrical motion picture distribution revenues reflected the weaker performance of current year titles including , and as compared to the prior year, which included the strong performances of and .
Finding Nemo
Pirates of the Caribbean
The Lion King
Lilo & Stitch
Beauty and the Beast
Home on the Range
The Alamo
King Arthur
Finding Nemo
Pirates of the Caribbean
     Lower segment operating income for the quarter was primarily due to declines in worldwide home entertainment and worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution, partially offset by improvements in television distribution, as well as lower production and development write-offs. The decrease in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution results reflected lower performance of current period titles compared to strong prior year performances of and . Lower domestic home entertainment revenues reflected weaker performance of current period titles which included and , compared to the prior year quarter titles which included , and . Revenue increases in television distribution reflected higher pay television revenues for live-action titles.
Pirates of the Caribbean
Finding Nemo
Kill Bill Vol. 2
Hidalgo
Chicago
Bringing Down the House
Gangs of New York
 
Consumer Products
     Consumer Products revenues for the year increased 7% to $2.5 billion and segment operating income increased 39% to $534 million. Revenues for the quarter increased 10% to $618 million and segment operating income increased 43% to $146 million.
     Higher segment operating income for the year was driven by an improvement of $117 million at the Disney Store as well as increases at merchandise licensing and publishing. The improvement at the Disney Store was driven by cost reductions due to overhead savings, the impact of the closure of underperforming stores in North America and margin improvements. Merchandise licensing increases were due to higher sales of the home infant gift collection, stationery products, fast moving consumer goods, apparel and accessories driven by the strong performance of and certain film properties. Growth at publishing was primarily due to the strong performance of books and . magazines.
Disney Princess
Finding Nemo
W.I.T.C.H
     Higher segment operating income for the quarter was primarily due to an improvement of $48 million at the Disney Stores, due to the factors described above.
Restructuring and Impairment Charges
     On October 19, 2004, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of the Disney Store chain in North America under a long-term licensing arrangement to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Children's Place ("TCP"). Pursuant to the terms of the sale, the Disney Store will retain its lease obligation and will be a wholly owned subsidiary
 
of TCP following the transaction. TCP will also pay the Company a royalty on the physical retail store sales beginning on the second anniversary of the closing date of the sale.
     During the year, the Company recorded $64 million of restructuring and impairment charges related to the Disney Store. The bulk of the charge ($50 million) was an impairment of the carrying value of the fixed assets related to the stores to be sold which was recorded in the third quarter. Additional charges recorded during the year related to the closure of stores that would not be sold and to transaction costs related to the sale.
     Subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions customary for a transaction of this kind, such as third party consents and regulatory approvals, the transaction is scheduled to close during November 2004. Additional charges for working capital and other adjustments will be reported at the date of closing. Additional transaction and restructuring costs will also be recognized later in fiscal 2005. We expect that the total costs that will be recorded in fiscal 2005 could range from $40 million to $50 million.
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
     Corporate and unallocated shared expenses decreased 3% for the year and the fourth quarter to $428 million and $144 million, respectively. The current year reduction reflected favorable legal settlements, partially offset by higher legal and other administrative costs.
 
Net Interest Expense
     Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
     Excluding an increase of $51 million for the year and $24 million for the quarter due to the consolidation of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, interest expense decreased $88 million (or 13%) for the year and increased $4 million (or 3%) for the quarter. Lower interest expense for the year was primarily due to lower average debt balances.
     Interest and investment income (loss) for the year, was income of $28 million compared to a loss of $13 million in the prior year. The current year includes interest income for Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, while the prior-year period included a loss on the early repayment of certain borrowings.
Equity in the Income of Investees
     Income from equity investees, consisting primarily of A&E Television, Lifetime Television and E! Entertainment Television, increased 11% to $372 million for the year and decreased 21% to $72 million for the quarter. The current year increase was driven by stronger performance at A&E, Lifetime, and E! Entertainment Television. The improvements at A&E and E! were driven by advertising revenue increases and the increase
 
at Lifetime was due to lower programming costs. The decrease during the quarter reflected higher programming costs at Lifetime and E! Entertainment.
Income Taxes
     The effective income tax rate was 32.0% for the year and 10.0% for the fourth quarter compared to 35.0% and 27.0% for the prior year and fourth quarter, respectively. Both the year and fourth quarter comparisons were affected by the income tax settlements discussed above.
Stock Repurchases
     During the fourth quarter, the Company repurchased 14.9 million shares of Disney common stock for approximately $335 million. As of September 30, 2004, the Company had authorization in place to repurchase approximately 315 million additional shares.
 
Borrowings and Cash Flow
     Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
     Excluding the impact of consolidating Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, net borrowings decreased from $11.5 billion at September 30, 2003 to $9.0 billion at September 30, 2004 as free cash flow was used to pay down borrowings.
 
     Cash provided by operations and free cash flow are detailed below (in millions):
     The increase in free cash flow for the year as compared to the prior year was due primarily to increased net income and lower film and television spending (the latter due in large part to timing). The Company expects to incur a higher net cash investment in film and television productions in fiscal 2005. The increases in fiscal 2004 were partially offset by higher capital expenditures which included the impact of consolidating Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
 
     Investments in parks, resorts and other property were primarily for new rides and attractions at the theme parks and for company-wide information technology projects at corporate. Capital expenditures by business segment are as follows (in millions):
Non-GAAP Financial Metrics
     This earnings release presents net borrowings, net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income which are important financial metrics for the Company but are not GAAP-defined metrics.
Net borrowings  The Company believes that net borrowings provide investors with useful information regarding our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay
 
outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland  The Company uses net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland to evaluate direct claims on the general assets of the Company separate from the direct claims on the assets of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland. The Company believes that this information is useful to investors because it allows investors to evaluate the effects on our borrowings and cash and cash equivalents resulting from the adoption of FIN 46R.
     The following table reconciles net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland to total borrowings and net borrowings at September 30, 2004 (in millions):
     Free cash flow  The Company uses free cash flow (cash flow from operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures.
 
Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends.
Aggregate segment operating income  The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
     These measures should be used in conjunction with GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
     Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made and management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives and information technology improvements, as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including international, political, health concern, weather related and military developments that may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and changes in domestic and global economic conditions that may, among other things, affect the performance of the Company's theatrical and home entertainment releases, the advertising market for broadcast and cable television programming, expenses of providing medical and pension benefits and demand for consumer products. Changes in domestic competitive conditions and technological developments may also affect performance of all significant company businesses.
     Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2003 under the heading "Factors that may affect forward-looking statements."
 
 
     The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income. A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes, minority interests and the cumulative effect of accounting change is as follows:
     Depreciation expense is as follows:
Segment depreciation expense is included in segment operating income and corporate depreciation expense is included in corporate and unallocated shared expenses.
 
 
 
Table A
 
Table B
     The following table reflects pro forma net income and earnings per share had the Company elected to record stock option expense based on the fair value approach methodology:
     These pro forma amounts may not be representative of future disclosures since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be granted in future years. The pro forma amounts assume that the Company had been following the fair value approach since the beginning of fiscal 1996.
     Fully diluted shares outstanding and diluted earnings per share include the effect of in-the-money stock options calculated based on the average share price for the period and assumes conversion of the Company's convertible senior notes. The dilution from employee options increases as the Company's share price increases, as shown below:
 
Table C
     In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board amended FASB Interpretation No. 46, (FIN 46) by issuing FIN 46R which generally deferred the effective date of FIN 46 to March 31, 2004. The Company adopted FIN 46R and as a result, began consolidating the balance sheets of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland on March 31, 2004. The Company began consolidating the income and cash flow statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland beginning April 1, 2004, the beginning of the fiscal third quarter. Under FIN 46R transition rules, the operating results and cash flows of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland continued to be accounted for on the equity method for the six-month period ended March 31, 2004. This table C as well as tables D, E, F and G that follow, provide supplemental information on the impact of consolidating Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
     The following supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating income statement of the Company for the year and quarter ended September 30, 2004, reflecting the impact of consolidating the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland beginning April 1, 2004.
 
Table D
     This supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating balance sheet of the Company, reflecting the impact of consolidating the balance sheets of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of September 30, 2004.
 
Table E
     The following supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating cash flow statement of the Company for the year ended September 30, 2004, reflecting the impact of consolidating the cash flow statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland beginning April 1, 2004.
 
Table F
     This supplemental worksheet presents quarterly and year-to-date operating results for fiscal 2004 as if the Company had consolidated the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland commencing at the beginning of fiscal 2003.
 
Table G
     This supplemental worksheet presents quarterly and year-to-date operating results as if the Company had consolidated the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland commencing at the beginning of fiscal 2003.


