FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20050809162108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On August 9, 2005, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter and nine months ended July 2, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99(a).
     The Registrant believes that certain statements in the earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the Registrant's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Registrant's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004.
     This information furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition", including the exhibit related thereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any disclosure document of the Company, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such document.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
     99(a) Press release of August 9, 2005.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.(a)
August 9, 2005
     BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the quarter and nine months ended July 2, 2005. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter increased 41% to $0.41, compared to $0.29 in the prior-year quarter. For the nine-month period, EPS was $1.09, up 24% compared to $0.88 recorded in the prior-year period.
     "Once again, The Walt Disney Company has posted a quarter of strong earnings growth," said Michael Eisner, Disney's Chief Executive Officer. "Our record third quarter performance is a direct consequence of long-term actions we have taken to position Disney as a global leader in providing quality entertainment, whether on television, on film, on the stage, in theme parks, in consumer products or through emerging technologies, such as the Internet, electronic video games and wireless services. Wherever and whenever people seek entertainment, Disney will be there."
     "The third quarter provided a great sampling of the breadth and strength of The Walt Disney Company," said Robert Iger, President, Chief
 
Operating Officer and CEO-elect. "Our largest segment, Media Networks, continued to turn in stellar performance, while Parks and Resorts successfully launched the global celebration of Disneyland's 50th anniversary. Although the studio is facing a challenging environment, we are excited by such upcoming projects as and . Also just ahead is the opening of Hong Kong Disneyland, which will serve as a platform for growth in the world's most populous nation. Looking ahead, we will remain focused on leveraging the strength and reach of our established properties to take advantage of the opportunities proffered by new technologies and market expansion around the world."
Flight Plan, Chicken Little
The Chronicles of Narnia
     Revenues, segment operating income, net income and EPS amounts for the quarter and nine months were as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
     EPS growth of 41% in the quarter was driven by operating income growth at Media Networks which increased by $325 million and Parks and Resorts which increased by $27 million. This growth was partially offset by decreases of $62 million at Studio Entertainment and $15 million at Consumer Products.
     Current quarter EPS included a $26 million gain on the sale of the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, a $32 million partial impairment charge for a cable television investment in Latin America, and a $24 million write-down related to the MovieBeam venture. In aggregate, these items reduced current quarter EPS by $0.01 per share. The prior-year quarter's EPS included restructuring and impairment charges of $56 million, or $0.02 per share, recorded in connection with the disposition of the Disney Stores North America.
     The current nine-month EPS also included a $61 million benefit from the restructuring of Euro Disney's borrowings and a $24 million benefit from the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters. These benefits were partially offset by a $32 million charge to write down an investment and restructuring and impairment charges related to the sale of the Disney Stores North America of $26 million. In aggregate, these items, along with the current quarter items mentioned above, had a net effect of less than a $0.01 on EPS for the current nine-month period.
 
Operating Results
Media Networks
     Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 16% to $3.4 billion and segment operating income increased 48% to $998 million. See Table A for further detail of Media Networks results.
     Segment operating income attributable to Cable Networks increased by 38% to $729 million compared to $529 million in the prior-year quarter due to growth at ESPN. The increase at ESPN was due to higher affiliate revenues which resulted from an increase in contractual rates, recognition of previously deferred revenues related to annual programming commitments and subscriber growth.
     Segment operating income attributable to Broadcasting increased by $125 million to $269 million compared to $144 million in the prior-year due to improved performance at the ABC Television Network partially offset by higher spending at Television Production as more pilots were produced. The growth at the ABC Television Network was due to lower primetime programming costs, higher advertising rates and improved primetime ratings.
Parks and Resorts
     Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 7% to $2.4 billion and segment operating income increased 6% to $448 million.
     Revenue and segment operating income growth was due to improvements at the Walt Disney World and Disneyland Resorts, reflecting higher guest spending at both resorts, higher occupancy at Walt Disney World and higher attendance at Disneyland Resort, partially offset
 
by increased costs and expenses at both resorts and $25 million of pre-opening costs at Hong Kong Disneyland.
     Higher guest spending at Walt Disney World reflected ticket price increases and fewer promotional offers compared to the prior-year quarter. During the quarter, the Company launched two new programs, and which are designed to increase occupancy at Walt Disney World hotels. Higher costs and expenses reflected an increase in marketing due to the promotion which celebrates the 50 anniversary of Disneyland and costs associated with new attractions and the new service programs.
Disney's Magical Express
Extra Magic Hours,
Happiest Celebration on Earth
th
     Higher guest spending and attendance at Disneyland Resort were due to increased ticket prices and the 50 anniversary celebration, respectively. Increased costs and expenses reflected higher marketing and sales costs due to the 50 anniversary celebration and higher volume related expenses.
th
th
     Parks and Resorts segment results for both the current and prior-year quarters include the consolidated results from Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, although these operations are only partially owned by the Company. For the current year quarter, Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland accounted for $311 million in revenue and $345 million in expenses in the segment results discussed above. In the prior-year quarter, revenues and expenses for these operations totaled $332 million and $317 million, respectively. See tables C, D, E and F for the impact of consolidating Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
 
Studio Entertainment
     Studio Entertainment revenue for the quarter decreased 15% to $1.5 billion and segment operating income decreased $62 million to a loss of $34 million.
     The decline in segment operating income was due to a decrease in worldwide home entertainment (home video), which was partially offset by an increase in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution. Additionally, the current quarter benefited from improved television distribution results and lower film cost write-offs.
     Worldwide home entertainment operating income declined due to lower overall unit sales in the current quarter as there were fewer strong performing titles. Prior-year quarter titles included Disney/Pixar's , and while current quarter titles included and Disney/Pixar's Additionally, the Company observed a decline in home video unit sales for feature films relative to the related total domestic box-office results.
Kill Bill: Vol.1,
Finding Nemo
Scary Movie 3, Bad Santa, Brother Bear
Cold Mountain
National Treasure, The Pacifier
The Incredibles.
     Worldwide theatrical results were driven by lower promotional spending on films to be released in the fourth quarter compared to the prior-year quarter and lower distribution costs as there were fewer releases in the current-year quarter.
Consumer Products
     Revenues for the quarter decreased 23% to $418 million and segment operating income decreased 20% to $61 million.
     The overall decline in segment revenues was due to the sale of the Disney Store North America in November 2004. Lower operating income
 
for the quarter was driven by increased product development spending at Buena Vista Games. Growth at merchandise licensing was driven by increases at hardlines and softlines in North America and Europe.
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
     Corporate and unallocated shared expenses increased 25% to $124 million. The increase was primarily due to the absence of reductions in litigation reserves which were recorded in the prior-year quarter.
Net Interest Expense
     Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
     Net interest expense decreased 11% or $17 million compared to the prior-year quarter primarily due to lower average debt balances partially offset by higher effective interest rates.
Equity in the Income of Investees
     Income from equity investees, consisting primarily of A&E Television, Lifetime Television and E! Entertainment Television, was flat at $125 million for the quarter as improved overall performance by the equity investees was offset by a $32 million partial impairment charge for a cable
 
television investment in Latin America due to revised expectations for long term business performance.
Income Taxes
     In the current quarter, the effective income tax rate decreased from 36.0% to 34.0% primarily due to the settlement of tax examinations in the intervening periods and an adjustment to tax benefits estimated in the prior year to actual amounts claimed.
 
Borrowings
     Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
     The decrease in net borrowings was due to the repayment of maturing medium-term notes partially offset by increased commercial paper borrowings. The total borrowings shown above include $2,853 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of July 2, 2005 and $2,766 million as of September 30, 2004. Cash and equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $385 million and $312 million as of July 2, 2005 and September 30, 2004, respectively.
 
Cash Flow
     Cash provided by operations and free cash flow for the nine months ended July 2, 2005 are detailed below (in millions):
 
     Free cash flow for the current nine months totaled $1.8 billion compared to $2.5 billion for the prior-year period due to lower cash provided by operations and increased investments in parks, resorts and other property. The decrease in cash provided by operations was primarily due to timing of payments for accounts payable, accrued expenses and income taxes. Investments in parks, resorts and other property increased due to capital expenditures of $428 million at Hong Kong Disneyland for the current nine-month period compared to the prior-year amount of $129 million. The prior-year amount only includes capital expenditures for the three months commencing April 1, 2004 when the Company began consolidating Hong Kong Disneyland. See Table E for the impact of consolidating Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland on our condensed cash flow statement.
 
     Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment are as follows (in millions):
 
Stock Repurchases
     During the quarter, the Company repurchased 33 million shares of Disney common stock for $0.9 billion. For the nine months, the Company repurchased 49 million shares for $1.4 billion.
Reporting Period Change
     Effective with the beginning of fiscal 2005 and in connection with the completion of the Company's implementation of new company-wide accounting systems in late fiscal 2004, the Company changed its reporting period from a calendar period end to a period end that coincides with the cut off of the Company's accounting systems. The accounting systems cut off on the Saturday closest to the calendar quarter end. Accordingly, the third quarter of fiscal 2005 began on April 3, 2005 and ended on July 2, 2005, whereas the third quarter of the prior-year began on April 1, 2004 and ended on June 30, 2004. This resulted in the same number of reporting
 
days in each quarter and one incremental day for the current nine-month period. The change did not have a material impact on quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons; however, it did benefit diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.01 on a cumulative basis for the current nine-month period.
Non-GAAP Financial Metrics
     This earnings release presents net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income which are important financial metrics for the Company but are not GAAP-defined metrics.
 The Company believes that net borrowings provide investors with useful information regarding our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash flow from operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important
Free cash flow
 
perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
     These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
     Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made and management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including international, political, health concern, weather related and military developments, technological developments and changes in domestic and global economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer preferences. Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect the performance of the Company's theatrical and home entertainment releases, the advertising market for broadcast and cable television programming, expenses of providing medical and pension benefits, demand for our products and performance of some or all company businesses either directly or through their impact on those who distribute our products.
     Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004 under the heading "Factors that may affect forward-looking statements."
 
 
 
The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income. A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes and minority interests is as follows:
Depreciation expense is as follows:
 
Segment depreciation expense is included in segment operating income and corporate depreciation expense is included in corporate and unallocated shared expenses.
 
 
 
Table A
 
Table B
     The following table reflects pro forma net income and earnings per share had the Company elected to record stock option expense on a fair value basis:
     These pro forma amounts may not be representative of future disclosures since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be granted in future years. The pro forma amounts assume that the Company had been following the fair value approach since the beginning of fiscal 1996.
     Fully diluted shares outstanding and diluted earnings per share include the effect of in-the-money stock options calculated based on the average share price for the period and assumes conversion of the Company's convertible senior notes. The dilution from employee options increases as the Company's share price increases, as shown below:
 
 
Table C
     The following supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating income statement of the Company for the quarter and nine months ended July 2, 2005, reflecting the impact of consolidating the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
 
 
Table D
     This supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating balance sheet of the Company, reflecting the impact of consolidating the balance sheets of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of July 2, 2005.
 
Table E
     The following supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating cash flow statement of the Company for the nine months ended July 2, 2005, reflecting the impact of consolidating the cash flow statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
 
Table F
     This supplemental worksheet presents quarterly and year-to-date operating results for fiscal 2004 as if the Company had consolidated the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland commencing at the beginning of the fiscal year.
 


