FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20050131162514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 31, 2005, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99(a).
     The Registrant believes that certain statements in the earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the Registrant's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Registrant's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004.
     This information furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition", including the exhibit related thereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any disclosure document of the Company, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such document.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99(a)
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
January 31, 2005
     BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for its first quarter of fiscal 2005.
     Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.35, compared to the prior-year quarter earnings per share of $0.33.
     Earnings per share for the quarter includes a $24 million benefit from the resolution of certain income tax matters and restructuring and impairment charges totaling $17 million ($11 million after tax) related to the sale of the Disney Store North America. Together, these items resulted in a net benefit to EPS of approximately $0.01. Additionally, as a result of a reporting calendar change effective for fiscal 2005, the current quarter included an incremental day, which resulted in an estimated $0.01 EPS benefit.
 
     "It is very gratifying to see the Company's strong performance continue into the new fiscal year. We remain confident in achieving double-digit earnings growth in 2005, thanks in part to the resurgence in ratings at ABC, the outstanding performance of ESPN and the recovery at our theme parks, which exemplify the strong and broad-based fundamentals of our company," said Michael Eisner, CEO of the Walt Disney Company. "We still have much to look forward to during the year, such as the celebration of Disneyland's 50 anniversary, the opening of Hong Kong Disneyland and the DVD release of Disney/Pixar's . Disney's ongoing success provides testament to the strength of our company and the strength of our management team."
th
The Incredibles
     Revenues, segment operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share amounts for the quarter were as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):
Operating Results
Media Networks
     Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 11% to $3.5 billion and segment operating income increased 36% to $467 million.
     Segment operating income attributable to cable increased by $131 million, primarily due to higher affiliate revenues at ESPN which were
 
driven by contractual rate adjustments. Additionally, advertising revenue increased at ESPN due primarily to higher rates and at ABC Family due to improved ratings. These increases were partially offset by higher programming and other administrative costs at ESPN.
     Segment operating income attributable to broadcasting decreased by $8 million, primarily due to a decrease at the ABC Television Network, partially offset by an increase at the Company's owned television stations.
     At the ABC Television Network, increased advertising revenues due to more NFL and college football broadcasts in the current quarter were more than offset by the associated programming costs, while the owned television stations benefited from increased political advertising revenues.
     See Table A for further detail of Media Networks results.
Parks and Resorts
     Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 30% to $2.1 billion, and segment operating income increased 11% to $258 million. The consolidation of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland contributed $369 million of the increase in revenue and reduced operating income by $6 million. See tables C, D, E and F for the impact of consolidating Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland. Excluding the consolidation impact, revenue grew $118 million, or 7%, and segment operating income increased $32 million, or 14%. The growth was due to increased theme park attendance and hotel occupancy at the Walt Disney World Resort, as well as higher per capita guest spending at the Disneyland Resort, primarily due to ticket price increases, fewer promotional discounts and the introduction of new ticket media.
 
     Higher visitation at Walt Disney World from both international and domestic tourists and local Florida residents reflected a strong holiday period and continued improvements in travel and tourism.
     Costs and expenses increased $461 million for the quarter, of which $375 million was due to the consolidation of Euro Disney and, to a lesser extent, Hong Kong Disneyland. The remaining increase of $86 million was primarily driven by higher labor and other volume-related expenses as well as increased fixed charges related to new guest offerings.
Studio Entertainment
     Studio Entertainment revenue for the quarter decreased 20% to $2.4 billion, and segment operating income decreased 27% to $333 million.
     Lower segment operating income was primarily driven by a decline in worldwide home entertainment, partially offset by improvements in domestic theatrical motion picture distribution and television distribution as well as lower production write-offs. The decrease in worldwide home entertainment (home video) results reflected lower DVD sales of current year titles as compared to the prior-year quarter, which included the strong performances of Disney/Pixar's , and Platinum ReleaseDomestic theatrical motion picture distribution results reflected stronger performances by current-year titles, including and as compared to the prior year which included and . The improvement in television distribution reflected a higher number of strong performing current-quarter titles, which included , and .
Finding Nemo
Pirates of the Caribbean
The Lion King
.
The Incredibles
National Treasure,
Brother Bear
Haunted Mansion
Cold Mountain
Scary Movie 3
Bad Santa
 
Consumer Products
     Revenues for the quarter decreased 14% to $725 million and segment operating income decreased 3% to $231 million.
     Decreased revenues and operating income were primarily due to the absence of the holiday season profits at the Disney Store, which was sold in mid-November. Revenues and segment operating income for the other lines of business increased 10% and 11%, respectively, due to increases at Buena Vista Games and in merchandise licensing.
     Growth at Buena Vista Games reflected the recognition of contractual minimum guarantee revenue and strong Game Boy Advance sales driven by , and titles. Growth in merchandise licensing reflected higher sales in all categories, in particular home and infant furnishings and fast moving consumer goods.
Lizzie McGuire 2, That's so Raven
Lilo and Stitch 2
     In connection with the sale of the Disney Store chain in North America effective November 21, 2004, the Company recorded a loss and additional restructuring and impairment charges totaling $17 million, which were in addition to previously disclosed charges and were primarily for working capital adjustments and employee severance and retention costs.
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
     Corporate and unallocated shared expenses increased 10% to $113 million, primarily due to increases in incentive compensation accruals and restricted stock expense.
 
Net Interest Expense
     Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
     Interest expense increased by $14 million to $162 million reflecting an increase of $21 million due to the consolidation of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as well higher average effective interest rates, partially offset by decreases due to lower average debt balances.
     Interest and investment income of $22 million in the current-year quarter reflects a gain on the sale of a technology start-up company, in which the Company's venture capital subsidiary, Steamboat Ventures, had a minority interest.
Equity in the Income of Investees
     Income from equity investees, consisting primarily of A&E Television, Lifetime Television, E! Entertainment Television and international cable ventures, increased 29% to $125 million for the quarter, primarily due to increases at the international cable ventures and the absence of equity losses from Euro Disney which totaled $16 million in the prior-year quarter. Euro Disney was accounted for under the equity method in the prior year quarter and is consolidated in the current-year period. Increases at the international cable ventures were driven by certain tax and legal settlements.
 
Income Taxes
     The effective income tax rate was 34.4% for the quarter compared to 36.8% in the prior-year quarter. The decrease was primarily due to the favorable resolution of an income tax matter that resulted in a $24 million tax reserve release which resulted in a 2.1% reduction in the first quarter effective income tax rate.
Borrowings and Cash Flow
     Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
     Net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland decreased from $9.0 billion at September 30, 2004 to $8.7 billion at December 31, 2004.
 
     Cash provided (used) by operations and free cash flow are detailed below (in millions):
     Free cash flow for the quarter reflected an increase of $158 million in cash provided by operations, partially offset by an increase of $139 million in capital expenditures. The increase in cash provided by operations was primarily due to higher earnings and decreased working capital utilization, partially offset by a decrease of $66 million due to the consolidation of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland (see Table E). Increased capital expenditures were due to the consolidation of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland which added $147 million of capital expenditures. Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland had negative free cash flow of $213 million (see Table E) and free cash flow from all other operations totaled $22 million for the quarter, an increase of $232 million over the prior-year quarter of ($210 million) as detailed above.
     In connection with the sale of the Disney Store in North America, the Company received $100 million for the working capital transferred to the buyer which is reported in investing activities in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
 
     Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment are as follows (in millions):
Reporting Period Change
     Effective with the beginning of fiscal 2005 and in connection with the completion of the Company's implementation of new company-wide accounting systems in late fiscal 2004, the Company changed its reporting period from a calendar period end to a period end that coincides with the cut off of the Company's accounting systems. The accounting systems cut off on the Saturday closest to the calendar quarter end. Accordingly, the first quarter of fiscal 2005 ended on January 1, 2005 whereas the first quarter of the prior-year ended on December 31, 2003. For convenience purposes, we will continue to date our financial statements as of the calendar quarter end (e.g. December 31, 2004). We estimate the impact of the incremental day was approximately a $0.01 benefit to EPS for the quarter. As a result of this change, fiscal 2005 will end on October 1, 2005 and accordingly, the full year will also include one additional day.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Metrics
     This earnings release presents net borrowings, net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income which are important financial metrics for the Company but are not GAAP-defined metrics.
 The Company believes that net borrowings provide investors with useful information regarding our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 The Company uses net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland to evaluate direct claims on the general assets of the Company separate from the direct claims on the assets of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland. The Company believes that this information is useful to investors because it allows investors to evaluate the effects on our borrowings and cash and cash equivalents resulting from the adoption of FIN 46R.
Net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland
 
     The following table reconciles net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland to total borrowings and net borrowings at December 31, 2004 (in millions):
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash flow from operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
 
     These measures should be used in conjunction with GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, net borrowings excluding Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
     Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made and management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives and information technology improvements, as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including international, political, health concern, weather related and military developments that may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and changes in domestic and global economic conditions that may, among other things, affect the performance of the Company's theatrical and home entertainment releases, the advertising market for broadcast and cable television programming, expenses of providing medical and pension benefits and demand for consumer products. Changes in domestic competitive conditions and technological developments may also affect performance of all significant company businesses.
     Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004 under the heading "Factors that may affect forward-looking statements."
 
 
The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income. A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes and minority interests is as follows:
Depreciation expense is as follows:
Segment depreciation expense is included in segment operating income and corporate depreciation expense is included in corporate and unallocated shared expenses.
 
 
 
Table A
 
Table B
     The following table reflects pro forma net income and earnings per share had the Company elected to record stock option expense based on the fair value approach methodology:
     These pro forma amounts may not be representative of future disclosures since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be granted in future years. The pro forma amounts assume that the Company had been following the fair value approach since the beginning of fiscal 1996.
     Fully diluted shares outstanding and diluted earnings per share include the effect of in-the-money stock options calculated based on the average share price for the period and assumes conversion of the Company's convertible senior notes. The dilution from employee options increases as the Company's share price increases, as shown below:
 
Table C
     The Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 46, (FIN 46R) in December 2003, and as a result, began consolidating the balance sheets of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland on March 31, 2004. The Company began consolidating the income and cash flow statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland beginning April 1, 2004. Under FIN 46R transition rules, the operating results and cash flows of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland continued to be accounted for on the equity method for the first six-months of fiscal 2004. This table C as well as tables D, E and F that follow, provide supplemental information on the impact of consolidating Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
     The following supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating income statement of the Company for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, reflecting the impact of consolidating the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
 
Table D
     This supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating balance sheet of the Company, reflecting the impact of consolidating the balance sheets of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of December 31, 2004.
 
Table E
     The following supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating cash flow statement of the Company for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, reflecting the impact of consolidating the cash flow statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
 
Table F
     This supplemental worksheet presents quarterly and year-to-date operating results for fiscal 2004 as if the Company had consolidated the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland commencing at the beginning of the fiscal year.


