FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20050511145244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
  
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 11, 2005, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter and six months ended April 2, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99(a).
     The Registrant believes that certain statements in the earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the Registrant's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Registrant's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004.
     This information furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition", including the exhibit related thereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any disclosure document of the Company, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such document.
  
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
99(a) Press release of May 11, 2005.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 11, 2005

 
Exhibit 99(a)
May 11, 2005
     BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the quarter and six months ended April 2, 2005.
     Diluted earnings per share for the second quarter increased 27% to $0.33, compared to $0.26 in the prior-year quarter.
     For the six-month period, diluted earnings per share were $0.68, up 15% versus the $0.59 recorded in the prior-year period.
     "It is very gratifying to see our company continue to achieve impressive growth. The second quarter's strong results are the latest demonstration that, across the company, our management team continues to effectively execute on its strategic plans. As we anticipated, last year's tremendous momentum has continued into 2005, bringing us well on the way toward another year of double-digit earnings growth for our shareholders," observed Michael Eisner, Disney's Chief Executive Officer.
 
     Robert Iger, President, Chief Operating Officer and CEO-elect remarked, "As we look back on the great performance of the first half of the year, we also look forward and consider how well poised The Walt Disney Company is for sustained long-term growth. Simply consider such current achievements as ABC's ratings resurgence, the launch of the global celebration of Disneyland's 50 anniversary, ESPN's new deal with the NFL, the impressive theatrical performance of and the DVD performance of Disney/Pixar's These are just a few of the significant developments underway across the company that should help drive growth into the future and maintain Disney's position as one of the preeminent providers of entertainment for families around the world."
th
The Pacifier
The Incredibles.
     Revenues, segment operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share amounts for the quarter and six months were as follows (in millions, except per share amounts):
     EPS growth of 27% in the quarter was driven by increases in operating income in each segment, led by Studio Entertainment which was up 65% over the prior-year quarter. Current quarter earnings per share included a $61 million benefit ($38 million after-tax) on the restructuring of Euro Disney's borrowings and a $32 million charge ($20 million after-tax)
 
to write down an investment. The six months also includes a $24 million benefit to net income from the resolution of certain income tax matters and restructuring and impairment charges totaling $24 million ($15 million after-tax) related to the sale of the Disney Store North America, of which $7 million was recorded in the second quarter.
Operating Results
Media Networks
     Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 6% to $3.0 billion and segment operating income increased 3% to $725 million. See Table A for further detail of Media networks results.
     Segment operating income attributable to cable decreased by 1% to $671 million. Higher affiliate and advertising revenues in the current period exceeded increases in production, administrative and sales and marketing costs, but this benefit was partially offset by the absence of a $41 million benefit in the prior-year period from a bankruptcy settlement with a cable operator in Latin America. In addition, as a result of a number of recently negotiated contracts with cable and satellite operators, ESPN deferred $111 million of revenue until certain annual sports programming commitments are satisfied. We expect to satisfy the programming commitments and recognize the deferred revenue in the second half of the fiscal year with the majority of the revenues deferred for the year to be recognized in the fourth quarter. Increased affiliate revenue for the quarter was driven by contractual rate increases at ESPN and subscriber growth at both ESPN and Disney Channels. Increased advertising revenue was due to improvements at ESPN and ABC Family.
 
     Segment operating income attributable to broadcasting increased to $54 million versus $28 million in the prior year, primarily due to the impact of improved ratings and advertising rates on advertising revenues, along with lower programming costs at the ABC Television Network. These improvements were partially offset by higher advertising, promotion and administrative expenses.
Parks and Resorts
     Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 26% to $2.1 billion, while segment operating income increased 3% to $193 million. The consolidation of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland contributed $303 million of the increase in revenue and reduced operating income by $44 million. See tables C, D, E and F for the impact of consolidating Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
     Excluding the consolidation impact, revenue grew $124 million, or 7%, and segment operating income increased $49 million, or 26%. The growth was primarily due to increases at Walt Disney World driven by higher guest spending and increased hotel occupancy.
     Increased guest spending at Walt Disney World reflected ticket price increases and fewer promotional offers driven by increased product demand reflecting the ongoing recovery in travel and tourism and the popularity of Disney as a travel destination. Higher occupancy at Walt Disney World was partially driven by the reopening of approximately one thousand rooms in the French Quarter portion of the Port Orleans hotel late in the second quarter of the prior year.
     Costs and expenses increased $422 million for the quarter, of which $347 million was due to the consolidation of Euro Disney and, to a lesser
 
extent, Hong Kong Disneyland, which incurred approximately $13 million of pre-opening and other costs. The remaining increase of $75 million was driven by higher volume-related expenses and fixed charges and increased information technology expenses at Walt Disney World.
Studio Entertainment
     Studio Entertainment revenue for the quarter increased 5% to $2.3 billion and segment operating income increased 65% to $253 million.
     Higher segment operating income was primarily due to improvements in domestic home entertainment (home video) and lower production write-offs as well as increases in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution, partially offset by declines in international home entertainment (home video). The increase in domestic home entertainment results reflected higher DVD sales of current quarter titles, including as compared to the prior-year quarter, which included and . Worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution results reflected lower distribution costs due to the timing of film releases. Declines in international home entertainment results reflected lower overall unit sales as the prior-year quarter's slate included and while the current quarter included and
The Incredibles,
The Lion King
1/
1
2
Brother Bear
Pirates of the Caribbean, The Lion King
1/
1
2
Disney/Pixar's Finding Nemo
The Incredibles
Bambi.
 
Consumer Products
     Revenues for the quarter decreased 9% to $465 million and segment operating income increased 48% to $111 million.
     Operating income growth was due to higher licensing revenues and the absence of losses at the Disney Store North America, which was sold in mid-November 2004. Growth in merchandise licensing was primarily due to the recognition of contractual minimum guarantee revenue.
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
     Corporate and unallocated shared expenses increased 28% to $105 million. The increase was primarily due to reductions in litigation reserves in the prior year.
Net Interest Expense
     Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
     Interest expense was essentially flat in the quarter as the benefit from lower average debt balances was offset by an increase of $15 million due to the consolidation of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
     Interest income and investment loss was a $10 million loss for the current quarter. The current quarter reflects a $32 million partial write-down of an investment in a company that licenses technology to our
 
MovieBeam venture. The prior-year quarter also included a $13 million write-down of another investment.
     The gain on the Euro Disney debt restructuring is discussed further below in the Euro Disney Financial Restructuring section.
Equity in the Income of Investees
     Income from equity investees, consisting primarily of A&E Television, Lifetime Television and E! Entertainment Television increased $36 million or 47% to $113 million for the quarter, primarily due to the absence of equity losses from Euro Disney which totaled $35 million in the prior-year quarter. Euro Disney was accounted for under the equity method in the prior-year quarter and is consolidated in the current-year period.
Borrowings
     Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
     Net borrowings at both April 2, 2005 and September 30, 2004 include approximately $2.5 billion for Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
     The decrease in the current portion of borrowings is due to the reclassification of Euro Disney's debt from short-term to long-term consistent with the terms of the restructuring as the debt is no longer subject to acceleration by the lenders.
Cash Flow
     Cash provided by operations and free cash flow for the six months ended April 2, 2005 are detailed below (in millions):
     Free cash flow for the current six months totaled $376 million compared to $2.0 billion for the prior-year period due to lower cash provided by operations and increased investment spending. The decrease in cash provided by operations was driven by increased receivables due to the second quarter home video release of and the timing of payments for accounts payable, accrued expenses, income taxes and minority partner dividends. Additionally, investments were higher, due primarily to the consolidation of Hong Kong Disneyland where capital expenditures totaled $284 million.
The Incredibles
 
     Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment are as follows (in millions):
Stock Repurchases
     During the quarter, the Company repurchased 15.1 million shares of Disney common stock for approximately $433 million. For the six months, the Company repurchased 15.5 million shares for approximately $444 million. As of April 2, 2005, the Company had authorization in place to repurchase approximately 300 million additional shares.
Reporting Period Change
     Effective with the beginning of fiscal 2005 and in connection with the completion of the Company's implementation of new company-wide accounting systems in late fiscal 2004, the Company changed its reporting period from a calendar period end to a period end that coincides with the cut off of the Company's accounting systems. The accounting systems cut off on the Saturday closest to the calendar quarter end. Accordingly, the
 
second quarter of fiscal 2005 began on January 2, 2005 and ended on April 2, 2005, whereas the second quarter of the prior-year began on January 1, 2004, and ended on March 31, 2004, resulting in the same number of reporting days due to a leap year in the prior year. The change did not have a material impact on quarter-over-quarter earnings comparisons.
Euro Disney Financial Restructuring
     On February 23, 2005, Euro Disney completed an equity rights offering, and accordingly, the terms of the legal and financial restructuring became fully effective resulting in an increase in our effective ownership interest in Euro Disney's operations to 51%. The restructuring plan provides for new financing as well as the restructuring of Euro Disney's existing borrowings. Under relevant accounting rules, Euro Disney was required to adjust the book value of certain Euro Disney senior debt to fair value which resulted in a $61 million gain (primarily non-cash).
Non-GAAP Financial Metrics
     This earnings release presents net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income which are important financial metrics for the Company but are not GAAP-defined metrics.
       The Company believes that net borrowings provide investors with useful information regarding our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay
Net borrowings
 
outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash flow from operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
 
     These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
     Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made and management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives and information technology improvements, as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including international, political, health concern, weather related and military developments, technological developments and changes in domestic and global economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer preferences. Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect the performance of the Company's theatrical and home entertainment releases, the advertising market for broadcast and cable television programming, expenses of providing medical and pension benefits, demand for our products and performance of some or all company businesses either directly or through their impact on those who distribute our products.
     Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2004 under the heading "Factors that may affect forward-looking statements."
 
 
The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income. A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes and minority interests is as follows:
     Depreciation expense is as follows:
(1) Represents 100% of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland's depreciation expense for the current year periods. The Company began consolidating the results of operations and cash flows of these two entities beginning April 1, 2004.
Segment depreciation expense is included in segment operating income and corporate depreciation expense is included in corporate and unallocated shared expenses.
 
 
 
Table A
 
Table B
     The following table reflects pro forma net income and earnings per share had the Company elected to record stock option expense based on the fair value approach methodology:
     These pro forma amounts may not be representative of future disclosures since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be granted in future years. The pro forma amounts assume that the Company had been following the fair value approach since the beginning of fiscal 1996.
     Fully diluted shares outstanding and diluted earnings per share include the effect of in-the-money stock options calculated based on the average share price for the period and assumes conversion of the Company's convertible senior notes. The dilution from employee options increases as the Company's share price increases, as shown below:
 
Table C
     The following supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating income statement of the Company for the quarter and six months ended April 2, 2005, reflecting the impact of consolidating the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
 
Table D
     This supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating balance sheet of the Company, reflecting the impact of consolidating the balance sheets of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of April 2, 2005.
 
Table E
     The following supplemental worksheet presents the condensed consolidating cash flow statement of the Company for the six months ended April 2, 2005, reflecting the impact of consolidating the cash flow statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.
 
Table F
     This supplemental worksheet presents quarterly and year-to-date operating results for fiscal 2004 as if the Company had consolidated the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland commencing at the beginning of the fiscal year.


