FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20050818171426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
________________________________________________________________________
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_________
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported):
August 18, 2005
__________
 
 
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
 
(818) 560-1000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not applicable
(Former name or address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
________________________________________________________________________
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On August 18, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Registrant amended the Registrant's Bylaws to add a new Section 7 to Article V generally prohibiting repurchase of any equity securities of the Registrant at above-market prices from any holder of more than 2% of the Registrant's voting securities unless the repurchase is pursuant to an offer made to all shareholders or is approved by a majority of shares cast by shareholders. The Bylaws of the Registrant as amended are set forth as Exhibit 3.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On August 18, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Registrant amended its Corporate Governance Guidelines so that any director who receives a "withhold" vote from a majority of the votes cast for his or her election will be required to submit to the Board a letter of resignation for consideration by the Board's Governance and Nominating Committee. The Committee would then make a recommendation regarding the resignation to the Board. The Corporate Governance Guidelines as amended are set forth on the Registrant's Investor Relations website.
 
Item 9.01 Exhibits
 
Exhibit 3.1 Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended August 18, 2005
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
                                                                                                                         
 
 
 
                    
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
AMENDED
AND RESTATED BYLAWS
OF
THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY
(hereinafter called the "Corporation")
 
ARTICLE I
 
OFFICES
Section 1.
    
Registered Office
. The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware.
Section 2.
    
Principal Place of Business
. The principal place of business of the Corporation is hereby fixed and located at 500 South Buena Vista Street, Burbank, California 91521.
Section 3.
    
Other Offices
. The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
 
ARTICLE II
 
MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS
Section 1.
    
Place of Meetings
. Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors (and in the case of a special meeting, by the Board of Directors or the person calling the special meeting as authorized by Section 3 of this Article II) and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.
Section 2.
    
Annual Meetings
. The Annual Meetings of Stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time and place as may be fixed by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as is properly brought before the meeting in accordance with these Bylaws.
Section 3.
    
Special Meetings
. Special meetings of stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President. Special meetings of stockholders may not be called by any other person or persons. Written notice of a special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, and only such business as is stated in such notice shall be acted upon thereat.
 
 
 
 
Section 4.
    
Quorum
. Except as may be otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority in voting power of the capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, a minority of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting.
Section 5.
    
Voting
. Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, (i) at all meetings of stockholders for the election of directors, a plurality of votes cast shall be sufficient to elect, and (ii) any other question brought before any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock represented and entitled to vote thereon. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in his discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
(a)        All meetings of the stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and, if he is not present, by such officer or director as is designated by the Board of Directors. The Secretary of the Corporation or, if he is not present, any Assistant Secretary or other person designated by the presiding officer shall act as secretary of the meeting.
(b)       The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Section 7.
    
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
. The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before
 
2
 
 
every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present.
Section 8.
    
Stock Ledger
. The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 7 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
Section 9.
    
Inspectors of Election
. Before any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Board of Directors may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability.
The inspectors shall:
The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall act in accordance with applicable law.
(1)       Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation at the time the notice
 
3
 
 
provided for in this Section 10 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10.
(2)       For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 10, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such proposed business other than the nomination of persons for election to the Board of Directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty days before or more than seventy days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (and such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
(3)       Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 10 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 10 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the
 
4
 
 
principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(b)       Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors of (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 10 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 10 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(1)       Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (a)(2)(c)(iv) of this Section 10) and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not so made or proposed in compliance with this Section 10 to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted.
(2)       For purposes of this Section 10, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3)       Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 10. Nothing in this Section 10 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the
 
5
 
 
Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
 
ARTICLE III
 
DIRECTORS
Section 1.
    
Number and Election of Directors
. Subject to the rights, if any, of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to elect directors of the Corporation, the Board of Directors shall consist of not less than nine nor more than 21 members with the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time solely by resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors. Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at Annual Meetings of stockholders, and each director so elected shall hold office as provided by Article FIFTH of the Certificate of Incorporation. Directors need not be stockholders.
Section 2.
    
Resignation of Directors
. Any director may resign at any time effective upon giving written notice to the Corporation, unless the notice specifies a later time for the effectiveness of such resignation.
Section 3.
    
Vacancies
. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors, howsoever resulting, may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for a term as specified in Article FIFTH of the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 4.
    
Duties and Powers
. The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 5.
    
Chairman of the Board
. The Board of Directors shall annually elect one of its members to be Chairman of the Board and shall fill any vacancy in the position of Chairman of the Board at such time and in such manner as the Board of Directors shall determine. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of stockholders. The Chairman shall perform such other duties and services as shall be assigned to or required of the Chairman by the Board of Directors.
Section 6.
    
Meetings
. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or by a majority of the Board of Directors. Notice thereof, stating the place, date and hour of the meeting, shall be given to each director either by mail not less than four days before the date of the meeting, or personally or by telephone, telegram, telex or similar means of communication on 12 hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
Section 7.
    
Quorum; Action of Board of Directors
. Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for
 
6
 
 
the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
 
Section 8.
    
Action by Written Consent
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
 
Section 9
.       
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone
. Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 8 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 10
.      
Committees
. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any committee, to the extent allowed by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation. The Board of Directors shall have the power to prescribe the manner in which proceedings of any such committee shall be conducted. In the absence of any such prescription, such committee shall have the power to prescribe the manner in which its proceedings shall be conducted. Unless the Board of Directors or such committee shall otherwise provide, regular and special meetings and other actions of any such committee shall be governed by the provisions of this Article III applicable to meetings and actions of the Board of Directors. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
Section 11
.      
Fees and Compensation
. Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services, and such reimbursement for expenses, as may be fixed or determined by the Board of Directors.
 
ARTICLE IV
 
OFFICERS
Section 1.
    
General
. The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The
 
7
 
 
Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may also choose one or more Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Section 2.
    
Election
. The Board of Directors at its first meeting held after each Annual Meeting of stockholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time solely by the Board of Directors, which determination may be by resolution of the Board of Directors or in any bylaw provision duly adopted or approved by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors with or without cause. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation may be filled only by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.
    
Chief Executive Officer
. The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of these Bylaws and the control of the Board of Directors, have general and active management, direction and supervision over the business of the Corporation and over its officers. He shall perform all duties incident to the office of chief executive and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall report directly to the Board of Directors and shall have the right to delegate any of his powers to any other officer or employee.
,
Section 4.
    
President
. The President shall report and be responsible to the Chief Executive Officer. The President shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned or delegated to him by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or are incident to the office of President.
Section 5.
    
Executive Vice Presidents
. The Executive Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors or are incident to the office of Executive Vice President.
Section 6.
    
Senior Vice Presidents
. The Senior Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors or are incident to the office of Senior Vice President.
Section 7.
    
Vice Presidents
. The Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors or are incident to the office of Vice President.
Section 8.
    
Secretary
. The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or such other place as the Board of Directors may order, a book of minutes of all meetings of stockholders, the Board of Directors and its committees, with the time and place of holding, whether regular or special, and if special, how authorized, the notice thereof given, the names of those present at Board of Directors and committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof. The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, a copy of the Bylaws of the Corporation at the principal executive office or business office of the Corporation.
The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or at the office of the Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, if one be appointed, a stock register, or a duplicate stock register, showing the names of the stockholders and their addresses, the number
 
8
 
 
and classes of shares held by each and, for holders of certificated shares, the number and date of certificates issued for the same and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and any committees thereof required by these Bylaws or by law to be given, shall keep the seal of the Corporation in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
Section 9.
    
Treasurer
. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities of the Corporation and shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation, and shall send or cause to be sent to the stockholders of the Corporation such financial statements and reports as are by law or these Bylaws required to be sent to them.
The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the Chief Executive Officer, the President and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
Section 10.
  
Other Officers
. Such other officers or assistant officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Section 11.
  
Execution of Contracts and Other Documents
. Each officer of the Corporation may execute, affix the corporate seal and/or deliver, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, deeds, mortgages, notes, bonds, contracts, agreements, powers of attorney, guarantees, settlements, releases, evidences of indebtedness, conveyances, or any other document or instrument which is authorized by the Board of Directors or is required to be executed in the ordinary course of business, except in cases where the execution, affixation of the corporate seal and/or delivery thereof shall be expressly and exclusively delegated by the Board of Directors to some other officer or agent of the Corporation.
 
ARTICLE V
 
STOCK
(a)        Shares of any or all of the Corporation's classes or series of stock may be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock (in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe) or may be issued in uncertificated form. The issuance of shares in uncertificated form shall not affect shares already represented by a certificate until the certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Except as expressly provided by law, there shall be no differences in the rights and obligations of stockholders based on whether or not their shares are represented by certificates.
 
9
 
 
 
(b)       Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the Delaware General Corporate Law or a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
(a)        Every holder of stock in the Corporation represented by certificates, and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed, in the name of the Corporation (i) by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or any Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or Vice President and (ii) by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by him in the Corporation.
(b)       Where a certificate is countersigned by (i) a transfer agent or (ii) a registrar, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 3.
    
Lost Certificates
. The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or uncertificated shares to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or uncertificated shares, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Section 4.
    
Transfers
. Transfers of shares of capital stock of the Corporation shall be made only on the stock record of the Corporation by the holder of record thereof or by his attorney thereunto authorized by the power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or the transfer agent thereof, and (1) in the case of certificated shares, only on surrender of the certificate or certificates representing such shares, properly endorsed or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power, or (2) in the case of uncertificated shares, upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of such uncertificated shares, or from a duly authorized attorney or from an individual presenting proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer the stock. The Board of Directors may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue and transfer of certificates representing shares of the capital stock of the Corporation.
(a)        In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise
 
10
 
 
any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(b)       Notwithstanding Section 5(a) of Article V of these Bylaws, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be as fixed by the Board of Directors or as otherwise established under this Section 5(b). Any person seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent without a meeting shall, by written notice addressed to the Secretary and delivered to the Corporation, request that a record date be fixed for such purpose. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for such purpose which shall be no more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board and shall not precede the date such resolution is adopted. If the Board of Directors fails within 10 days after the Corporation receives such notice to fix a record date for such purpose, the record date shall be the day on which the first written consent is delivered to the Corporation in the manner described in Section 5(c) below unless prior action by the Board of Directors is required under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, in which event the record date shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
(c)       Every written consent purporting to take or authorizing the taking of corporate action and/or related revocations (each such written consent and related revocation is referred to in this Section 5(c) of Article V of the Bylaws as a "Consent") shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the Consent, and no Consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated Consent delivered in the manner required by this Section 5(c), Consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders to take such action are so delivered to the Corporation.
A Consent shall be delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery to the Corporation's registered office shall be made by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
In the event of the delivery to the Corporation of a Consent, the Secretary of the Corporation shall provide for the safe-keeping of such Consent and shall promptly conduct such ministerial review of the sufficiency of the Consents and of the validity of the action to be taken by stockholder consent as he deems necessary or appropriate, including, without limitation, whether the holders of a number of shares having the requisite voting power to authorize or take the action specified in the Consent have given consent; provided, however, that if the corporate action to which the Consent relates is the removal or replacement of one or more members of the Board of Directors, the Secretary of the Corporation shall promptly designate two persons, who shall not be members of the Board of Directors, to serve as inspectors with respect to such Consent and such inspectors shall discharge the functions of the Secretary of the Corporation under this Section 5(c). If after such investigation the Secretary or the inspectors (as the case may be) shall determine that the Consent is valid and that the action therein specified has been validly authorized, that fact shall forthwith be certified on the records of the Corporation kept for the purpose of recording the proceedings of meetings of stockholders, and the Consent shall be filed in such records, at which time the Consent shall become effective as stockholder action. In conducting the investigation required by this Section 5(c), the Secretary or the inspectors (as the
 
11
 
 
case may be) may, at the expense of the Corporation, retain special legal counsel and any other necessary or appropriate professional advisors, and such other personnel as they may deem necessary or appropriate to assist them, and shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the opinion of such counsel or advisors.
Section 6.
    
Beneficial Owners
. The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law.
Section 7.
    
Certain Security Repurchases
. The Corporation shall not acquire any of its voting equity securities at a price exceeding the greater of the then-current market price of such securities or the average market price of such securities for the preceding thirty trading days from any person or group who or that is the beneficial owner of more than 2% of the Corporation's voting securities,
unless
the acquisition of such securities is (a) effected pursuant to the same offer and on terms extended to all holders of securities of such class and to all holders of any other class from or into which such securities may be converted, or (b) approved by a vote of a majority of the shares cast, excluding those owned by the beneficial owner whose shares are being acquired by the Corporation. This provision shall not restrict the Corporation from acquiring shares in other circumstances, including: (i) reacquiring shares in the open market or in block trades pursuant to a stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors, in each case in accordance with the requirements of Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b-18 or any successor rule or (ii) reacquiring shares pursuant to the terms of a stock option plan that has been approved by a vote of a majority of the shares of common stock.
 
ARTICLE VI
 
NOTICES
Section 1.
    
Notices
. Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, to be given to any director or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director or stockholder, at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail. Written notice may also be given personally or by telegram, telex, cable or facsimile transmission followed, if required by law, by deposit in the United States mail, with postage prepaid.
Section 2.
    
Waivers of Notice
. Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, to be given to any director or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
 
12
 
 
 
ARTICLE VII
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section 1.
    
Disbursements
. All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Section 2.
    
Fiscal Year
. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.
    
Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation
. Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President or any other officer or officers authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, vote, represent and exercise on behalf of the Corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of the Corporation and take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
 
ARTICLE VIII
 
INDEMNIFICATION
Section 1.
  
General
. The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law (as now or hereafter in effect) any person made, or threatened to be made, a defendant or witness to any action, suit or proceeding (whether civil or criminal or otherwise) by reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or by reason of the fact that such director or officer, at the request of the Corporation, is or was serving any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, in any capacity. Nothing contained herein shall affect any rights to indemnification to which employees other than directors and officers may be entitled by law. No amendment or repeal of this Section 1 shall apply to or have any effect on any right to indemnification provided hereunder with respect to any acts or omissions occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
(a)        the Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of law; and
 
13
 
 
 
(b)       the Corporation may create a trust fund, grant a security interest and/or use other means (including, without limitation, letters of credit, surety bonds and/or other similar arrangements), as well as enter into contracts providing indemnification to the full extent authorized or permitted by law and including as part thereof provisions with respect to any or all of the foregoing to ensure the payment of such amounts as may become necessary to effect indemnification as provided therein, or elsewhere.
 
ARTICLE IX
 
AMENDMENTS
Section 1.
    
General
. These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Bylaws may be adopted by either the holders of 66-2/3% of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote thereon or by the Board of Directors.
 
ARTICLE X
 
EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
Section 1.
    
General
. The provisions of this Article X shall be operative only during a national emergency declared by the President of the United States or the person performing the President's functions, or in the event of a nuclear, atomic or other attack on the United States or a disaster making it impossible or impracticable for the Corporation to conduct its business without recourse to the provisions of this Article X. Said provisions in such event shall override all other Bylaws of the Corporation in conflict with any provisions of this Article X, and shall remain operative so long as it remains impossible or impracticable to continue the business of the Corporation otherwise, but thereafter shall be inoperative; provided that all actions taken in good faith pursuant to such provisions shall thereafter remain in full force and effect unless and until revoked by action taken pursuant to the provisions of the Bylaws other than those contained in this Article X.
Section 2.
    
Unavailable Directors
. All directors of the Corporation who are not available to perform their duties as directors by reason of physical or mental incapacity or for any other reason or who are unwilling to perform their duties or whose whereabouts are unknown shall automatically cease to be directors, with like effect as if such persons had resigned as directors, so long as such unavailability continues.
Section 3.
    
Authorized Number of Directors
. The authorized number of directors shall be the number of directors remaining after eliminating those who have ceased to be directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article X, or the minimum number required by law, whichever number is greater.
Section 4.
    
Quorum
. The number of directors necessary to constitute a quorum shall be one-third of the authorized number of directors as specified in Section 3 of this Article X, or such other minimum number as, pursuant to the law or lawful decree then in force, it is possible for the Bylaws of a Corporation to specify.
Section 5.
    
Creation of Emergency Committee
. In the event the number of directors remaining after eliminating those who have ceased to be directors pursuant to Section 2 of this
 
14
 
 
Article X is less than the minimum number of authorized directors required by law, then until the appointment of additional directors to make up such required minimum, all the powers and authorities which the Board of Directors could by law delegate including all powers and authorities which the Board of Directors could delegate to a committee, shall be automatically vested in an emergency committee, and the emergency committee shall thereafter manage the affairs of the Corporation pursuant to such powers and authorities and shall have all other powers and authorities as may by law or lawful decree be conferred on any person or body of persons during a period of emergency.
Section 6.
    
Constitution of Emergency Committee
. The emergency committee shall consist of all the directors remaining after eliminating those who have ceased to be directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article X, provided that such remaining directors are not less than three in number. In the event such remaining directors are less than three in number, the emergency committee shall consist of three persons, who shall be the remaining director or directors and either one or two officers or employees of the Corporation, as the remaining director or directors may in writing designate. If there is no remaining director, the emergency committee shall consist of the three most senior officers of the Corporation who are available to serve, and if and to the extent that officers are not available, the most senior employees of the Corporation. Seniority shall be determined in accordance with any designation of seniority in the minutes of the proceedings of the Board, and in the absence of such designation, shall be determined by rate of remuneration. In the event that there are no remaining directors and no officers or employees of the Corporation available, the emergency committee shall consist of three persons designated in writing by the stockholder owning the largest number of shares of record as of the date of the last record date.
Section 7.
    
Powers of Emergency Committee
. The emergency committee, once appointed, shall govern its own procedures and shall have power to increase the number of members thereof beyond the original number, and in the event of a vacancy or vacancies therein, arising at any time, the remaining member or members of the emergency committee shall have the power to fill such vacancy or vacancies. In the event at any time after its appointment all members of the emergency committee shall die or resign or become unavailable to act for any reason whatsoever, a new emergency committee shall be appointed in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Article X.
Section 8.
    
Directors Becoming Available
. Any person who has ceased to be a director pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of this Article X and who thereafter becomes available to serve as a director shall automatically become a member of the emergency committee.
Section 9.
    
Election of Board of Directors
. The emergency committee shall, as soon after its appointment as is practicable, take all requisite action to secure the election of a board of directors, and upon such election all the powers and authorities of the emergency committee shall cease.
Section 10.
  
Termination of Emergency Committee
. In the event, after the appointment of an emergency committee, a sufficient number of persons who ceased to be directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article X become available to serve as directors, so that if they had not ceased to be directors as aforesaid, there would be enough directors to constitute the minimum number of directors required by law, then all such persons shall automatically be deemed to be reappointed as directors and the powers and authorities of the emergency committee shall be at an end.
 
15
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 


