FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20060809080656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On August 9, 2006, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended July 1, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99(a).
The Registrant believes that certain statements in the press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the Registrant's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Registrant's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 1, 2005 and subsequent filings.
This information furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition", including the exhibit related thereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any disclosure document of the Company, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such document.
 
(c) Exhibits
99(a) Press release of August 9, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 9, 2006

Exhibit 99.A
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
August 9, 2006
 
 
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the third quarter and nine months ended July 1, 2006. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter increased 36% to $0.53, compared to $0.39 in the prior-year quarter. For the nine-month period, EPS increased 24% to $1.28, compared to $1.03 in the prior-year period. Net income for the third quarter and nine months ended July 1, 2006 was favorably impacted by a $30 million net benefit associated with the completion of the Pixar transaction. EPS was also impacted by the dilution from the shares issued in the Pixar acquisition.
"Disney's strong third quarter financial results demonstrate the company's unique ability to leverage great content across our many businesses," said Robert A. Iger, President and CEO, The Walt Disney Company. "In recent months, we have released such highly successful creative product as , and , all of which are having a positive impact throughout our company, from merchandise sales to the Internet to home video to our theme parks. By investing in our pre-eminent core brands and adopting new platforms to enhance the entertainment experience, we intend to deliver our content to more people, more often, in more places, and thereby also deliver long-term growth to our shareholders."
Cars
High School Musical
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
 
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-month results for fiscal 2006 and 2005 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-month segment operating results for fiscal 2006 and 2005 (in millions):
 
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 10% to $3.7 billion and segment operating income increased 5% to $1.2 billion. The growth in segment operating income was due to improved performance at Cable Networks, partially offset by a decline at Broadcasting. The following table provides further detail of Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $130 million to $969 million for the quarter primarily due to growth at ESPN. The increase at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate revenues from contractual rate increases, increased recognition of previously deferred revenues related to annual programming commitments and higher advertising revenues from higher ratings. During the quarter, ESPN recognized $106 million of previously deferred programming commitment revenues compared to $42 million in the prior-year quarter driven by new programming commitment provisions in affiliate contracts. The revenue increases at ESPN were partially offset by higher programming expenses, primarily due to the new Major League Baseball rights agreement, and increased costs associated with ESPN branded mobile phone services. Cable Networks operating income also benefited from the absence of an impairment charge for a cable television investment, which was recorded in the prior-year quarter, and growth at the domestic Disney Channel.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting decreased $70 million to $183 million for the quarter primarily due to higher programming expenses at the ABC Television Network, the increased number and costs of pilot productions and costs associated with the launch of the Disney branded mobile phone service, partially offset by increased revenue due to higher advertising rates at the ABC Television Network.
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 11% to $2.7 billion and segment operating income grew 26% to $549 million due to increases at both of our domestic resorts and at Disneyland Resort Paris.
Operating income growth at our domestic resorts was primarily due to increased guest spending, theme park attendance and hotel occupancy. Higher guest spending
 
was driven by higher average daily room rates and higher ticket prices. Increased theme park attendance and hotel occupancy for the quarter were favorably impacted by the shift in timing of the Easter holiday from the second quarter of fiscal 2005 to the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and positive responses to guest offerings such as , Magic Your Way and Disney's Magical Express. The revenue increases at our domestic resorts were partially offset by higher operating expenses, driven by increased volumes and costs associated with new guest offerings and attractions.
Expedition Everest
Operating income growth at Disneyland Resort Paris was primarily due to increased attendance and higher hotel occupancy which benefited from the timing of the Easter holiday season and enhanced marketing and sales offers implemented in conjunction with the opening of the attraction.
Buzz Lightyear Laser Blast
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter increased 17% to $1.7 billion and segment operating income increased $284 million to $240 million. Higher segment operating income was due to improvements in worldwide home entertainment and domestic theatrical motion picture distribution, partially offset by a decrease in international theatrical motion picture distribution.
Worldwide home entertainment growth was primarily due to the strong performance of , lower distribution costs driven in part by fewer returns and reduced marketing expenditures.
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and The Wardrobe
The improvement in domestic theatrical motion picture distribution was driven by reduced distribution costs associated with Miramax releases in the current quarter and the stronger performing slate of titles, led by the most recent Disney/Pixar animated release, The decrease in international theatrical motion picture distribution resulted from higher distribution costs driven by the timing of marketing expenses for which began its international release late in the quarter. Current quarter results in the theatrical markets were dampened by marketing expenses related to , which was released subsequent to the end of the quarter.
Cars.
Cars
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 6% to $445 million and segment operating income increased 69% to $105 million.
Higher segment operating income for the quarter was primarily due to higher earned royalties in Merchandise Licensing, led by the strong performance of merchandise related to and . Revenues also increased at Buena Vista Games due to higher sales of self-published titles but were offset by higher costs of goods sold, product development spending on both current and future titles and marketing costs.
Cars
Pirates of the Caribbean
 
PIXAR ACQUISITION
On May 5, 2006, the Company completed an all-stock acquisition of Pixar, resulting in an increase of approximately 288 million in the then outstanding Disney shares on a diluted basis. The results of Pixar's operations have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements since the closing date.
In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded a net gain of $30 million after-tax. The principal components of this net gain were a non-cash, non-taxable gain from the deemed termination of the existing Pixar distribution agreement with the Company and impairment charges related to the abandonment of the Pixar sequel projects commenced by the Company prior to the acquisition.
CORPORATE AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
Corporate and unallocated shared expenses for the quarter decreased from $137 million to $119 million primarily due to insurance reimbursements of previously expensed litigation costs and a write-down in the prior-year quarter related to the MovieBeam venture. These decreases were partially offset by transition costs in connection with the previously announced transfer of certain information technology functions and support services to third party service providers in the United States.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
Net interest expense for the quarter was essentially flat as higher interest expense at Hong Kong Disneyland in the current quarter was offset by the absence of a partial write-down of an investment in a company that licenses technology to the MovieBeam venture which was recorded in the prior year. During the prior-year quarter, Hong Kong Disneyland's interest expense was capitalized as the park was under construction.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the quarter remained flat at 33.8%. The current quarter benefited from the non-taxable gain on the deemed termination of the Pixar distribution agreement and the release of tax reserves related to the favorable resolution of certain state income tax matters. The 2005 quarter benefited from a favorable tax adjustment to a prior-year estimate.
 
Minority Interests
Minority interest expense increased from $47 million to $73 million due to the allocation of increased profits to the minority interest holder at ESPN and the allocation of decreased losses after royalties, financing costs and taxes to minority interest holders of Euro Disney.
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The Company generated $2.9 billion in free cash flow during the nine months compared to $1.7 billion in the prior-year period, reflecting an increase of $0.7 billion in cash provided by operations and a decrease of $0.4 billion in capital expenditures.
The increase in cash provided by operations was driven by improved performance at Media Networks and Parks and Resorts, partially offset by higher income tax payments and pension contributions.
The decrease in capital expenditures was primarily due to lower investment at Hong Kong Disneyland resulting from the substantial completion of the park prior to its opening at the end of fiscal 2005, as well as lower expenditures at the domestic theme parks.
 
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment are as follows (in millions):
 
Depreciation expense is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the first nine months of fiscal 2006, the Company repurchased 147 million shares for $4.1 billion, of which 80 million shares for $2.4 billion were purchased in the third quarter. As of July 1, 2006, the Company had authorization in place to repurchase approximately 302 million additional shares of which the Company has repurchased 67 million shares for slightly under $2.0 billion subsequent to quarter end through August 4, 2006.
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $3,228 million and $2,953 million attributable to our partially owned international theme parks as of July 1, 2006 and October 1, 2005, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to these international parks totaled $486 million and $535 million as of July 1, 2006 and October 1, 2005, respectively.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash
Net borrowings
 
equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash flow from operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes and minority interests is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, August 9, 2006, at 5:30 AM PST/8:30 AM EST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to www.disney.com/investors. The discussion will be available via replay through August 23, 2006 at 4:00 PM PST/7:00 PM EST.
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made and management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including: adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; health concerns; international, political, or military developments; technological developments; and changes in domestic and global economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer preferences. Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect the performance of the Company's theatrical and home entertainment releases, the advertising market for broadcast and cable television programming, expenses of providing medical and pension benefits, demand for our products and performance of some or all company businesses either directly or through their impact on those who distribute our products.
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 1, 2005 and in subsequent reports on Form 10-Q under Item 1A, "Risk Factors".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


