FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20060206162533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On February 6, 2006, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
     The Registrant believes that certain statements in the earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the Registrant's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Registrant's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 1, 2005.
     This information furnished under "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition", including the exhibit related thereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any disclosure document of the Company, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such document.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
          (c) Exhibits
                99.1 Press release of February 6, 2005
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 6, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 6, 2006
     BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the first quarter ended December 31, 2005. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter increased 12% to $0.37, compared to $0.33 in the prior-year quarter.
     "I am encouraged by the solid momentum in our earnings and the financial and creative strengths that underpin these results," said Robert Iger, President and CEO of The Walt Disney Company. "We continue to focus on our strategy of creating the finest content, embracing leading edge technologies, and strengthening our global presence and in doing so, we are confident in our ability to deliver long-term success across each of our businesses. Our recently announced plan to acquire Pixar advances our efforts against each aspect of that strategy. In addition, today's announcement of our proposed combination of the ABC Radio business with Citadel Broadcasting underscores our commitment to maximizing the value of our assets for our shareholders, while focusing our capital and management resources toward our core businesses."
 
     The following table summarizes the first quarter results for fiscal 2006 and 2005 (in millions, except per share amounts):
     Current quarter results benefited from gains of $70 million ($44 million after-tax or $0.02 per share) related to the sales of a cable television equity investment and of a magazine business. Prior-year quarter results included a $24 million benefit from the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters, partially offset by restructuring and impairment charges related to the sale of The Disney Store North America totaling $17 million ($11 million after-tax), which had a net aggregate favorable impact of $0.01 per share.
SEGMENT RESULTS
     The following table summarizes the first quarter segment operating results for fiscal 2006 and 2005 (in millions):
 
 
Media Networks
     Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 6% to $3.7 billion and segment operating income increased 7% to $606 million driven by strong performance at Broadcasting. The following table provides further detail of Media Networks results (in millions):
Cable Networks
     Operating income at Cable Networks decreased 15% to $372 million for the quarter driven by increased programming commitment revenue deferrals at ESPN and higher programming and marketing costs at ABC Family. At ESPN, the benefit of higher affiliate rates and advertising revenues more than offset increases in production costs, investments in new initiatives (including ESPN branded mobile phone service) and higher general and administrative expenses. Cable Networks operating income declined, however, because revenue deferrals at ESPN increased by $105 million primarily due to annual programming commitments in new affiliate contracts signed subsequent to the beginning of the prior fiscal year. The deferred revenues are expected to be recognized in the second half of the fiscal year.
Broadcasting
     Operating income at Broadcasting increased 87% to $234 million for the quarter primarily due to an increase at the ABC Television Network. The increase at the ABC Television Network was driven by higher primetime advertising revenue resulting from strong upfront sales and continued strength in ratings.
Parks and Resorts
     Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 13% to $2.4 billion and segment operating income increased 51% to $375 million. Operating income growth reflected increases at both our domestic resorts, led by the on-going success of the 50 anniversary celebration at Disneyland, and our partially-owned international resorts.
th
 
Domestic Resorts
     Operating income growth at our domestic resorts was primarily due to increased guest spending and attendance, continued strong sales at Disney's Vacation Club and higher hotel occupancy. Higher guest spending was driven by increased ticket prices and merchandise sales at the theme parks and a higher average daily hotel room rate. Increased attendance for the quarter was driven by the celebration of the 50 anniversary of Disneyland at both domestic resorts.
th
     This growth was partially offset by higher operating expenses due to increased volumes and increased costs associated with new guest offerings, such as Disney's Magical Express at the Walt Disney World Resort and new attractions for the 50 anniversary celebrations.
th
International Resorts
     Operating income growth at our international resorts reflected the first full quarter of theme park operations at Hong Kong Disneyland, and increased attendance, guest spending and hotel occupancy at Disneyland Resort Paris.
Studio Entertainment
     Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter decreased 13% to $2.0 billion and segment operating income decreased 60% to $128 million.
     Lower segment operating income was primarily due to declines in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution, domestic home entertainment (home video) and television distribution, partially offset by an increase in international home entertainment.
     Lower worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution results were primarily due to a lower performing slate of titles versus the prior-year slate. The impact of the strong box-office performance of and was more than offset by the performance of the remaining titles in the slate, including film cost write-downs. Successful prior-year quarter titles included Disney/Pixar's and . Additionally, the timing of marketing expenses adversely affected the quarter as compared to the prior-year quarter.
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe
Chicken Little
The Incredibles
National Treasure
     The decline in domestic home entertainment was primarily due to a decline in unit sales resulting from fewer strong performing titles in the current quarter. Significant current quarter titles included Platinum Release and while the prior-year quarter titles included Platinum Release and
Cinderella
Herbie: Fully Loaded
Princess Diaries 2: Royal Engagement, Aladdin
King Arthur.
     The decline in television distribution was primarily due to a decrease in domestic pay television as a result of fewer strong performing titles. Current quarter pay television titles included and while the prior-year quarter titles included and . In addition, domestic free television declined due to fewer available titles in the current quarter.
The Pacifier
National Treasure,
Scary Movie 3, Brother Bear, Miracle
Cold Mountain
     The increase in international home entertainment was driven by the success of Miyazaki's in Japan and Platinum Release.
Howl's Moving Castle
Cinderella
 
Consumer Products
     Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 1% to $733 million driven by revenue growth at Buena Vista Games partially offset by a decrease of $80 million due to the sale of the Disney Store North America chain in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Segment operating income increased 17% to $270 million.
     Higher segment operating income for the quarter was primarily due to the performance at Buena Vista Games and the recognition of contractual minimum guarantee revenues at Publishing and Merchandise Licensing. The improvement at Buena Vista Games was primarily due to newly released Disney published titles based on and , partially offset by increased product development spending.
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe, Chicken Little
Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas
CORPORATE AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
     Corporate and unallocated shared expenses decreased from $124 million to $104 million for the quarter reflecting the timing of expenses in a number of administrative departments.
Net Interest Expense
     Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
     Net interest expense increased 16% to $163 million driven by higher interest expense at Hong Kong Disneyland. During the prior-year quarter, Hong Kong Disneyland's interest expense was capitalized prior to the park opening in September 2005.
Income Taxes
     The effective income tax rate was 36.4% for the quarter compared to 34.3% for the prior-year quarter. The prior-year quarter effective tax rate reflects the release of reserves as a result of the favorable resolution of certain tax matters. Excluding this benefit, the effective income tax rate was 36.5% for the prior-year quarter.
 
Cash Flow
     Cash provided by operations and free cash flow are detailed below (in millions):
     The Company generated $376 million in free cash flow during the quarter compared to a deficit of $191 million in the prior-year quarter. The change in free cash flow for the quarter reflected an increase of $423 million in cash provided by operations and a decrease of $144 million in capital expenditures. The increase in cash provided by operations was primarily due to the timing of collections of advertising receivables at Media Networks, lower net investment in films, and higher cash distributions from equity investees. These increases were partially offset by the timing of payments for accounts payable and accrued expenses.
     The decrease in capital expenditures is primarily due to lower spending at Hong Kong Disneyland reflecting substantial completion of the initial phase of the park in late fiscal 2005, as well as lower spending at our domestic theme parks on new guest attractions, including those related to the Disneyland 50 anniversary celebrations.
th
 
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
     Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment are as follows (in millions):
Depreciation expense is as follows:
Segment depreciation expense is included in segment operating income and corporate depreciation expense is included in corporate and unallocated shared expenses.
Share Repurchases
     During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company repurchased 49 million shares for approximately $1.2 billion. On January 23, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization to a total of 400 million shares.
 
Borrowings
     Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
     The increase in net borrowings reflected share repurchase activity in excess of free cash flow. The total borrowings shown above include $2,984 million and $2,953 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of December 31, 2005 and October 1, 2005, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $414 million and $535 million as of December 31, 2005 and October 1, 2005, respectively.
Equity in the Income of Investees Reporting Change
     Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, the Company reports the performance of its operating segments including equity in the income of investees to align with how management now reports and measures segment performance for internal management purposes. Previously, equity in the income of investees was reported as a reconciling item between segment operating income and income before income taxes and minority interests. Equity investees consist primarily of A&E Television Network, Lifetime Television and E! Entertainment Television, which are cable businesses included in the Media Networks segment. Media Networks operating income included $107 million of equity in the income of investees in the current quarter versus $121 million in the prior-year quarter (all included within Cable Networks). Consumer Products operating income included $4 million of equity in the income of investees in both the current quarter and the prior-year quarter.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     This earnings release presents net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
     These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge
Net borrowings
 
net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash flow from operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes and minority interests is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
     In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, February 6, 2006, at 4:30 PM EST/1:30 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through February 21, 2006 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
     Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made and management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including: adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; health concerns; international, political, or military developments; technological developments; and changes in domestic and global economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer preferences. Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect the performance of the Company's theatrical and home entertainment releases, the advertising market for broadcast and cable television programming, expenses of providing medical and pension benefits, demand for our products and performance of some or all company businesses either directly or through their impact on those who distribute our products.
     Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 1, 2005 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors."
 
 
 
 


