FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20061109160904.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 9, 2006, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter and year ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
99.1 Press release of November 9, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 9, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 9, 2006
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the fourth quarter increased 89% to $0.36, compared to $0.19 in the prior-year period, reflecting growth at Studio Entertainment, Parks and Resorts, and Media Networks. For the year, EPS increased 34% to $1.64, compared to $1.22 in the prior year, reflecting growth at each operating segment.
"Disney had a spectacular year, posting record revenues, record net income, and record cash flow,'' said Bob Iger, president and chief executive officer of the Walt Disney Company. "It is a result of the incredible creativity at our company.''
 
The following table summarizes the full year and fourth quarter results for fiscal 2006 and 2005 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the full year and fourth quarter segment operating results for fiscal 2006 and 2005 (in millions):
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the year increased 11% to $14.6 billion and segment operating income increased 12% to $3.6 billion. For the quarter, revenues increased 10% to $3.7 billion and segment operating income increased 18% to $883 million. The following table provides further detail of Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $259 million to $3.0 billion for the year primarily due to growth at ESPN from higher affiliate and advertising revenues. Higher affiliate revenues were due to contractual rate increases and, to a lesser extent, subscriber growth while advertising revenue growth was driven by higher ratings and rates. The revenue increases at ESPN were partially offset by higher programming expenses primarily due to the new Major League Baseball (MLB) and National Football League (NFL) rights agreements and an additional NFL game. Increased costs for the ESPN branded mobile phone service, which the Company recently announced would be transitioned into its existing wireless licensing business, and higher general and administrative costs also impacted results for the year.
For the quarter, operating income at Cable Networks increased $156 million to $854 million due to growth at ESPN. The increase at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate and advertising revenues and lower marketing expenses. Higher affiliate revenues were due to the recognition of increased deferred revenues and higher contractual rates. During the quarter, ESPN recognized $171 million of previously deferred programming commitment revenues compared to $84 million in the prior-year quarter. These increases in ESPN operating income were partially offset by the higher programming expenses from the new MLB and NFL rights agreements and the additional NFL game.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $142 million to $606 million for the year driven by improved primetime performance at the ABC Television Network and increased sales of Touchstone Television series, partially offset by higher costs at the Internet Group and Radio, and the increased number and costs of pilot productions.
 
The improved primetime performance at the ABC Television Network was driven by higher advertising rates, strong upfront sales, and continued strength in ratings, partially offset by higher programming expenses. The increase in sales at Touchstone were driven by higher international syndication revenues and DVD unit volumes of the hit dramas and, as well as higher license fees for , which completed its fifth season on network television. Advertising revenues for the year at Broadcasting also benefited from the Super Bowl, however this revenue increase was essentially offset by related programming expenses.
Lost, Grey's Anatomy,
Desperate Housewives
Scrubs
The cost increase at the Internet Group was primarily due to the launch of Disney branded mobile phone services as well as the costs of other new initiatives. Higher costs at Radio included an impairment charge related to FCC licenses, primarily at ESPN Radio, reflecting an overall market decline in certain radio markets in which we operate.
For the quarter, operating income at Broadcasting decreased $19 million to $29 million as improved performance at the ABC Television Network and higher DVD unit sales of Touchstone Television series were more than offset by the increased costs associated with the roll-out of Disney branded mobile phone services and the FCC license impairment charge. The improved performance at the ABC Television Network was driven by higher advertising rates, increased advertising spots from programming changes, and benefits from replacement programming for Monday Night Football, partially offset by the impact of lower ratings.
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the year increased 10% to $9.9 billion and segment operating income increased 30% to $1.5 billion. Segment operating income growth reflected strength at both of our domestic resorts, led by the success of the 50
th
anniversary celebration, the first year of operations at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, and improvements at Disneyland Resort Paris.
For the quarter, revenues increased 8% to $2.5 billion and segment operating income increased 28% to $396 million. Operating income growth was due to improvements at our international resorts and at Walt Disney World.
Domestic Resorts
For the year, operating income growth at our domestic resorts was due to increased guest spending, theme park attendance, and hotel occupancy, as well as higher sales at Disney Vacation Club. This growth was partially offset by higher operating expenses, driven by increased volume-related costs and costs associated with new guest offerings and attractions.
For the quarter, operating income growth at Walt Disney World was driven by increased guest spending, theme park attendance, and hotel occupancy. Higher guest spending was driven by higher average daily room rates and higher average ticket prices. The increase in theme park attendance was led by Disney's Animal Kingdom where we opened the new attraction in April 2006. These increases were partially offset by higher operating expenses driven by increased volume-related
Expedition Everest
 
costs and costs associated with new guest offerings and attractions. At Disneyland Resort, operating income was comparable with the prior-year quarter, as both quarters benefited from the success of the 50
th
anniversary celebration.
International Resorts
For the year, improvements at our international resorts were primarily due to the first full year of theme park operations at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort rather than pre-opening costs in the prior year, as well as increased theme park attendance and higher hotel occupancy at Disneyland Resort Paris.
The increase in operating income for the quarter was primarily due to a full quarter of theme park operations at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort versus the costs associated with its grand opening late in the prior-year quarter, as well as higher guest spending and increased theme park attendance at Disneyland Resort Paris.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the year decreased 1% to $7.5 billion and segment operating income increased from $207 million to $729 million. Operating income growth was primarily due to improvements in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution and worldwide home entertainment.
For the quarter, revenues increased 33% to $2.0 billion and segment operating income increased $527 million to $214 million. The increase in operating income was primarily due to improvements in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution and worldwide home entertainment.
The improvement in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution for the year was primarily due to lower distribution costs resulting from fewer domestic Miramax releases and the outstanding performance of . Other successful current year titles included and Disney/Pixar's.
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe
Cars
Worldwide home entertainment growth for the year was primarily due to reduced marketing and trade programs, lower distribution costs driven in part by fewer returns, and improved margins from increased sales of television series DVD box sets, partially offset by a decline in unit sales resulting from a higher number of strong performing titles in the prior year. Significant current year titles included Platinum Release, and while prior-year titles included Disney/Pixar's, Platinum Release, and Platinum Release.
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe, Cinderella
Chicken Little,
The Incredibles, National Treasure
Aladdin
Bambi
For the quarter, the improvement in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution was primarily due to the strong performance of , lower film cost write-downs at Miramax, and lower distribution costs resulting from fewer Miramax releases. The increase in worldwide home entertainment was primarily due to a favorable mix of titles with lower production cost amortization, as well as reduced marketing expenditures.
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the year increased 3% to $2.2 billion and segment operating income increased 14% to $618 million. Revenues for the quarter
 
increased 9% to $564 million and segment operating income increased 1% to $139 million.
The increase in segment operating income for the year was primarily due to earned revenue growth at Merchandise Licensing, partially offset by lower results at Buena Vista Games. Growth at Merchandise Licensing was due to higher earned royalties across multiple product categories, led by the strong performance of , and merchandise. The decrease at Buena Vista Games was driven by increased product development spending on future self-published titles.
Cars
Disney Princess,
Pirates of the Caribbean
For the quarter, segment operating income was essentially flat as an increase at Merchandise Licensing was offset by a decrease at Buena Vista Games. Growth at Merchandise Licensing was primarily due to higher earned royalties across multiple product categories, led by the strong performance of and merchandise. The decrease at Buena Vista Games was due to higher expenses reflecting an increase in product development spending.
Cars
Pirates of the Caribbean
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense is as follows (in millions):
 
The increase in interest expense for the year and quarter was due to higher interest expense at Hong Kong Disneyland and higher effective interest rates and average debt balances. During the prior year, Hong Kong Disneyland's interest expense was capitalized when the park was under construction.
Interest and investment income for the year increased due to a $42 million write-down in the prior year of an investment in a company that licenses technology to the MovieBeam venture and increased interest income from higher average cash balances.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate was 34.7% for the year and 34.0% for the quarter compared to 31.1% and 3.3% for the prior year and prior-year quarter, respectively. The lower effective tax rate for the prior year and the prior-year quarter reflected a greater release of reserves as a result of the favorable resolution of certain tax matters
 
and the benefit from a one-time deduction permitted under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 related to the repatriation of foreign earnings.
Minority Interests
Minority interest expense increased from $177 million to $183 million for the year and from $50 million to $82 million for the quarter. The increase for the year was due to the allocation of increased profits to the minority interest holder of ESPN, partially offset by the allocation of increased losses (after royalties, financing costs, and taxes) to minority interest holders of the partially owned international theme parks.
For the quarter, the increase in minority interest expense was due to the allocation of increased profits to the minority interest holder of ESPN and the allocation of decreased losses (after royalties, financing costs, and taxes) to the minority interest holder of Hong Kong Disneyland.
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow are detailed below (in millions):
 
The Company generated $4.8 billion in free cash flow during fiscal 2006 compared to $2.4 billion in the prior year, reflecting an increase of $1.8 billion in cash provided by operations and a decrease of $0.5 billion in capital expenditures.
The increase in cash provided by operations was driven by operating income growth at all of the segments, partially offset by higher income tax payments.
The decrease in capital expenditures was primarily due to lower investment at Hong Kong Disneyland resulting from the substantial completion of the park prior to its opening in September 2005.
 
Investments in parks, resorts and other property are as follows (in millions):
 
Depreciation expense is as follows (in millions):
Share Repurchases
During the year ended September 30, 2006, the Company repurchased 243 million shares for $6.9 billion, of which 96 million shares were purchased for $2.8 billion in the fourth quarter. As of September 30, 2006, the Company had authorization in place to repurchase approximately 206 million additional shares.
 
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
The total borrowings shown above include $3,242 million and $2,953 million attributable to our partially owned international theme parks as of September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to these international parks totaled $599 million and $535 million as of September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005, respectively.
Subsequent Event  Sale of Us Weekly
On October 2, 2006, the Company sold its 50 percent stake in Us Weekly for $300 million, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $270 million ($170 million after-tax), which will be recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash flow from operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes and minority interests is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, November 9, 2006, at 1:30 PM PST/4:30 PM EST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through November 23, 2006 at 4:00 PM PST/7:00 PM EST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 1, 2005 and in subsequent reports on Form 10-Q under Item 1A, "Risk Factors".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


