FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20070723170006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
The Walt Disney Company (the "Company") today presented the results of certain prior fiscal periods adjusted to reclassify the operating results of its Radio businesses as a result of the completion of the Company's previously announced disposition of the ABC Radio business on June 12, 2007.
In the disposition, the Company spun-off its ABC Radio business (consisting of 22 large-market radio stations and the ABC Radio Network) which was then merged with Citadel Broadcasting Corporation, a separate publicly-traded company. The Company retained the ESPN Radio and Radio Disney networks and stations businesses. As a result, the Company will now report the historical results of the ABC Radio business as discontinued operations for all periods reported in its financial statements. Additionally, the ESPN Radio and Radio Disney networks and station businesses will be included with Cable Networks in the Media Networks segment. Prior to the spin-off, the Company's Radio businesses were included with Broadcasting in the Media Networks segment.
This new presentation will be reflected in the Company's third quarter fiscal 2007 financial statements.
The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for fiscal years 2005 and 2006 and the six months ended March 31, 2007 adjusted to reflect the new presentation (unaudited, in millions, except per share data):
 
 
The following tables present reconciliations of operating results as originally reported to operating results adjusted to reflect the new presentation for fiscal year 2007 (quarterly and first half), fiscal year 2006 (quarterly and full year), and fiscal year 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


