FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20070207160956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On February 7, 2007, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended December 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 7, 2007
 
 
 
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the first quarter ended December 30, 2006. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter increased to $0.79, compared to $0.37 in the prior-year quarter.
Results for the current quarter included gains on sales of our interests in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly totaling $1.1 billion and an equity-based compensation plan modification charge of $48 million associated with the planned ABC Radio transaction. Results for the prior-year quarter included gains on sales of a Spanish cable equity investment and Discover Magazine totaling $70 million. Collectively, these items increased EPS for the current and prior-year quarter by $0.29 and $0.02, respectively. Excluding these items, EPS increased 43% to $0.50 from $0.35 in the prior-year quarter.
"I am very pleased to report such strong quarterly earnings to kick off 2007," said Bob Iger, president and chief executive officer of The Walt Disney Company. "These results are particularly gratifying given the great year we had in 2006 and are another clear sign our strategy is driving growth and creating shareholder value."
 
SUMMARY RESULTS
The following table summarizes the first quarter results for fiscal 2007 and 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
Results for the current quarter included the net favorable impact of the items summarized in the following table (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
These items are discussed in more detail in the "Other Financial Information" section that follows below.
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the first quarter segment operating results for fiscal 2007 and 2006 (in millions):
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 6% to $3.9 billion and segment operating income increased 24% to $750 million. The following table provides further detail of Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $81 million to $453 million for the quarter, driven by increases at the international Disney Channels and domestic Disney/ABC cable networks. The increase at the international Disney Channels was primarily due to subscriber growth while the increase at the domestic cable networks was driven by DVD sales of and higher affiliate and advertising revenues.
High School Musical
At ESPN, increases in affiliate revenue, primarily due to contractual rate increases, and advertising revenue, driven by higher advertising sales from Monday Night Football (MNF) compared to Sunday Night Football in the prior-year quarter, were more than offset by higher programming costs associated with MNF and higher revenue deferrals related to programming commitments. Revenue deferrals for the quarter increased by $60 million compared to the prior-year quarter due to annual programming commitments in new affiliate contract provisions. The deferred revenues are expected to be recognized in the second half of the fiscal year.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $63 million to $297 million for the quarter due to the absence of MNF at the ABC Television Network, higher political advertising revenues at the owned television stations, and strong international and DVD sales of Touchstone Television series led by the hit dramas and . These increases were partially offset by higher programming and production costs, including higher write-offs, and increased costs associated with the Disney branded mobile phone service.
Grey's Anatomy
Lost
 
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 4% to $2.5 billion and segment operating income increased 8% to $405 million. Segment operating income growth reflected an increase at Walt Disney World, partially offset by declines at Hong Kong Disneyland and the Disneyland Resort.
Operating income growth at Walt Disney World was due to increased guest spending driven by higher average ticket prices and increased attendance, partially offset by higher operating costs. Costs benefited from lower pension and post-retirement medical costs.
The decreases at Hong Kong Disneyland and the Disneyland Resort were primarily due to lower attendance and guest spending. Lower results at the Disneyland Resort reflected the success of the 50th Anniversary Celebration in the prior-year quarter.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter increased 29% to $2.6 billion and segment operating income increased from $128 million to $604 million. Segment operating income growth was due to significantly higher unit sales at worldwide home entertainment, partially offset by lower results in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution.
The successful home entertainment releases of , Disney/Pixar's , and Platinum Release drove the increased DVD unit sales compared to the prior-year quarter, which included Platinum Release, Miyazaki's , and .
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
Cars
Little Mermaid
Cinderella
Howl's Moving Castle
Herbie: Fully Loaded
The decrease in worldwide theatrical motion picture distribution reflected the performance of current quarter titles including and compared to the strong performance of in the prior-year quarter.
Dj Vu
Santa Clause 3
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter decreased 6% to $692 million and segment operating income decreased 13% to $235 million.
The decrease in segment operating income for the quarter was primarily due to lower contractual minimum guarantee revenues and a decline in revenues from self-published titles at Buena Vista Games, partially offset by higher earned royalties across multiple licensing product categories, led by the strong performance of and merchandise. Lower revenues from self-published titles at Buena Vista Games reflected stronger performing titles in the prior-year quarter, which included the release of titles based on and.
Cars
Pirates of the Caribbean
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe
Chicken Little
 
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Gains on sales of equity investments and business
On November 21, 2006, in connection with the execution of new long-term agreements for the provision of programming to cable service provider Comcast Corporation (Comcast), the Company sold its 39.5% interest in E! Entertainment Television to Comcast (which owned the remainder of the interest in E!) for $1.2 billion, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $780 million ($487 million after-tax).
On October 2, 2006, the Company sold its 50% stake in Us Weekly for $300 million, which resulted in a gain of $272 million ($170 million after-tax).
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense is as follows (in millions):
 
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the quarter increased to 37.6% from 36.4% in the prior-year quarter. The increase was primarily due to a reduction in the benefits from an exclusion of certain foreign source income. This exclusion was repealed on a phase-out basis as part of the . No exclusion will be available for transactions originating after the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
Cash provided by operations decreased by $63 million to $516 million as higher earnings and lower NFL payments were more than offset by working capital timing. Receivables increased significantly during the quarter driven by the strong DVD sales at Studio Entertainment. We expect to collect a substantial amount of these receivables in the second quarter of fiscal 2007.
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment are as follows (in millions):
 
Depreciation expense is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased 29 million shares for $957 million. As of December 30, 2006, the Company had authorization in place to repurchase approximately 177 million additional shares, of which the Company has repurchased 18 million shares for $632 million subsequent to quarter-end through February 2, 2007.
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
The total borrowings shown above include $3,349 million and $3,242 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of December 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $431 million and $599 million as of December 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006, respectively. The reduction in borrowings was primarily due to repayment of medium-term notes in accordance with scheduled maturities and the redemption of quarterly interest bonds in November 2006.
Equity-based Compensation Plan Modification Charge
In anticipation of the ABC Radio transaction, the Company needed to determine whether employee equity-based compensation awards would be adjusted for the dilutive impact of the transaction on the employee awards. Certain of the Company's plans required such adjustments to be made on an equitable basis. All other plans permitted such adjustments to be made. In order to treat all employees consistently with respect to the ABC Radio transaction (and other similar future transactions), the Company amended the plans such that all plans require equitable adjustments for such transactions. In connection with these amendments, the Company was required to record a non-cash charge of $48 million representing the estimated fair value of this modification with respect to vested equity-based employee compensation awards. The estimated fair value of the modification with respect to unvested awards is $26 million and will be expensed over the remaining vesting period of these awards.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or income before income taxes and minority interests as determined in accordance with GAAP. Earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of the impact of significant dispositions of interests in businesses. During the current quarter, significant impacts included gains on sales of equity investments in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly and a charge related to modification of equity-based compensation plans in connection with the ABC Radio transaction. In the prior-year quarter, significant impacts included gains on sales of a Spanish cable equity investment and Discover Magazine. The Company believes that earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of those items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate separately the impact of decisions regarding the sale of interests in businesses from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions:
Earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash
Net borrowings
 
and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes and minority interests is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, February 7, 2007, at 4:30 PM EST/1:30 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through February 21, 2007 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


