FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20070801160915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On August 1, 2007, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 1, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
August 1, 2007
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the third quarter and nine months ended June 30, 2007. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations for the third quarter increased 14% to $0.58, compared to $0.51 in the prior-year quarter. Higher earnings for the quarter were driven by double-digit growth in operating income at the Media Networks, Parks and Resorts and Consumer Products segments. Net income for the prior-year quarter was favorably impacted by a $30 million net benefit associated with the completion of the Pixar acquisition ($0.01 per share). As discussed below, the Company completed the spin-off of its ABC Radio business during the quarter, and results from that business are now reflected as discontinued operations for both the current and prior-year periods.
"We've again achieved strong results by focusing on doing what we do best; building high-quality creative franchises across multiple platforms and multiple markets," said Disney president and chief executive Robert A. Iger.
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-month results for fiscal 2007 and 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
Results for the current nine-month period included gains on sales of the Company's interests in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly totaling $1.1 billion ($657 million after-tax or $0.31 per share) and an equity-based compensation plan modification charge of $48 million ($30 million after-tax or $0.01 per share) associated with the ABC Radio transaction, all of which were recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
In addition to the gain related to the Pixar acquisition, the prior-year nine-month period also included gains on sales of a Spanish cable equity investment and Discover Magazine totaling $70 million ($44 million after-tax or $0.02 per share), both of which were recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
Collectively, these items increased EPS for the current and prior-year nine-month periods by $0.30 and $0.04, respectively. Excluding these items, EPS from continuing operations in the current nine-month period increased 24% to $1.50 from $1.21 in the prior-year nine-month period.
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-months segment operating results for fiscal 2007 and 2006 (in millions). Operating results of the ABC Radio business are reported as discontinued operations for the current and prior-year periods and therefore have been excluded from these segment results.
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 6% to $3.8 billion and segment operating income increased 23% to $1.4 billion. The following table provides further detail of Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $88 million to $1.1 billion for the quarter primarily due to growth at ESPN and at the domestic Disney/ABC Cable Networks. The growth at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate revenues due to contractual rate increases and subscriber growth, partially offset by decreased recognition of previously deferred revenues related to annual programming commitments. Operating income at ESPN also benefited from lower costs associated with mobile phone operations, which have transitioned to a licensing model since the prior-year period. During the quarter, ESPN recognized $49 million of previously deferred revenues compared to $106 million in the prior-year quarter. The remaining deferred revenues totaling $359 million as of the end of the current quarter are expected
 
to be recognized in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year compared to $171 million of deferred revenues which were recognized in the fourth quarter of the prior year. Increased operating income at the domestic Disney/ABC Cable Networks reflected higher affiliate and advertising revenues. Growth in affiliate revenues was primarily due to higher contractual rates and subscriber growth.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $165 million to $295 million for the quarter primarily due to strong sales of ABC Studios productions, lower programming and production costs, including a decrease in the number of pilot productions, and higher advertising revenue at the ABC Television Network. These increases were partially offset by increased costs associated with the Disney-branded mobile phone service. The growth at ABC Studios reflected higher international, domestic syndication and DVD sales led by and . Increased advertising revenues at the ABC Television Network were due to higher advertising rates and higher sold inventory, partially offset by the impact of lower ratings.
Lost, Desperate Housewives
Scrubs
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 6% to $2.9 billion and segment operating income increased 13% to $621 million. Higher segment operating income reflected increases at Walt Disney World and Disneyland Resort.
Higher operating income at Walt Disney World was due to increased guest spending and higher attendance, partially offset by higher operating costs. Guest spending increases were due to higher average daily room rates and higher merchandise sales. Increased operating costs were driven by labor cost inflation and new guest offerings, partially offset by lower pension and postretirement medical expense and decreased marketing costs.
Higher operating income at Disneyland Resort was due to increased guest spending, primarily due to higher average ticket prices, partially offset by higher operating costs. Cost increases at Disneyland Resort were due to labor cost inflation and new guest offerings, partially offset by lower pension and postretirement medical expense.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter increased 4% to $1.8 billion and segment operating income decreased 20% to $192 million. Lower segment operating income was primarily due to a decrease in worldwide home entertainment partially offset by an increase in international theatrical distribution.
The decrease in worldwide home entertainment was primarily due to lower DVD sales, reflecting the strong performance of in the prior-year quarter.
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe
The improvement in international theatrical distribution was driven by the strong performance of in the current quarter. At domestic theatrical distribution, the strong performance of
Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
Pirates of the Caribbean: At
 
was offset by higher distribution costs driven by marketing expenses for Disney/Pixar's which was released late in the current quarter.
World's End
Ratatouille,
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 23% to $549 million and segment operating income increased 12% to $118 million.
Higher segment operating income for the quarter was driven by increased unit volumes at Disney Interactive Studios, higher earned revenues at Merchandise Licensing and by Disney Store North America license royalties, which commenced in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. These gains were partially offset by a higher revenue share with the Studio Entertainment segment, increased marketing and video game development costs at Disney Interactive Studios and higher operating costs at Merchandise Licensing.
Unit volume growth at Disney Interactive Studios reflected the success of the self-published video game based on while earned revenues at Merchandise Licensing grew across multiple product categories led by merchandise.
Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
Cars
Consumer Products segment revenues generated from recent Studio Entertainment properties are shared with the Studio segment. The increased revenues from Studio properties, primarily and , resulted in an increase in this allocation in the current quarter.
Cars
Pirates of the Caribbean
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
Net interest expense increased $10 million driven by higher effective interest rates, partially offset by favorable market value adjustments on certain investments in the current quarter and increased interest income on higher average cash balances.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the quarter increased to 37.6% from 33.7% in the prior-year quarter. The increase was primarily due to a reduction in the tax benefits realized from an exclusion of certain foreign source income. The prior-year quarter rate also benefited from a non-taxable gain recorded in connection with the Pixar acquisition.
 
The exclusion of certain foreign source income was repealed on a phase-out basis as part of the . No exclusion is available for transactions originating after the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
Radio Disposition
On June 12, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of its ABC Radio business, which was then merged into a subsidiary of Citadel Broadcasting Corporation (Citadel). The ABC Radio business includes 22 of the Company's owned radio stations and the ABC Radio Network. As a result of the spin-off, the operating results of the ABC Radio business will be reported as discontinued operations in the current and prior periods. The transaction did not include the Company's ESPN Radio and Radio Disney network and station businesses.
Summarized financial information for the discontinued operations is as follows (in millions, except per share data):
 
Cash Flow
Cash provided by continuing operating activities and free cash flow are detailed below (in millions):
 
The Company generated $2.8 billion in free cash flow during the current nine-month period, which was essentially flat compared to the prior-year period as an increase of $250 million in cash provided by operating activities was largely offset by an increase of $219 million in capital expenditures.
 
The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher operating performance at Studio Entertainment, Parks and Resorts and Media Networks and lower NFL payments, partially offset by higher income tax payments.
The increase in capital expenditures was driven by a deposit on two new cruise ships and new rides and attractions at Disneyland Resort including the
Finding Nemo Submarine Voyage.
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property from continuing operations by segment are as follows (in millions):
 
Depreciation expense from continuing operations by segment is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the first nine months of fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased 151 million shares for $5.2 billion, of which 55 million shares were purchased for $1.9 billion in the third quarter. As of June 30, 2007 the Company had authorization in place to repurchase 374 million additional shares.
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
The total borrowings shown above include $3,426 million and $3,242 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $420 million and $599 million as of June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items related to dispositions and acquisitions, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interests as determined in accordance with GAAP. Earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items related to dispositions and acquisitions, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items related to dispositions and acquisitions to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of the impact of significant dispositions or acquisitions of interests in businesses. During the current nine months, significant impacts included gains on sales of equity investments in E! Entertainment
Earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items related to dispositions and acquisitions
 
and Us Weekly and a charge related to modification of equity-based compensation plans in connection with the ABC Radio transaction. In the prior nine-month period, significant impacts included gains on sales of a Spanish cable equity investment and Discover Magazine and a net gain associated with the completion of the Pixar acquisition. The Company believes that earnings per share from continuing operations exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of those items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate separately the impact of decisions regarding the sale and acquisition of interests in businesses from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share from continuing operations to earnings per share from continuing operations excluding certain items related to dispositions and acquisitions:
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by continuing operating activities less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interests is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, August 1, 2007, at 1:30 PM PST/4:30 PM EST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through August 15, 2007 at 4:00 PM PST/7:00 PM EST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 and in subsequent reports on Form 10-Q under Item 1A, "Risk Factors".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


