FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20070508160921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On May 8, 2007, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 8, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May 8, 2007
 
 
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the second quarter and six months ended March 31, 2007. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter increased 19% to $0.44, compared to $0.37 in the prior-year quarter, reflecting growth at each operating segment. For the six-month period, diluted EPS increased to $1.24, compared to $0.74 in the prior-year period.
Results for the six-month period of fiscal 2007 included gains on sales of our interests in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly totaling $1.1 billion and an equity-based compensation plan modification charge of $48 million associated with the planned ABC Radio transaction, which were all recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. The prior-year six-month period included gains on sales of a Spanish cable equity investment and Discover Magazine totaling $70 million, which were both recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Collectively, these items increased EPS for the current and prior-year six-month periods by $0.30 and $0.02, respectively. Excluding these items, EPS increased 31% to $0.94 from $0.72 in the prior-year six-month period.
During the first six months of fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased 96 million shares for approximately $3.3 billion, of which 67 million shares for $2.3 billion were purchased in the second quarter. On May 1, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company increased the share repurchase authorization to a total of 400 million shares.
"I'm pleased to report another excellent quarter, with double digit increases in earnings per share as well as operating income across all of our business segments," said Robert A. Iger, president and CEO. "Disney's second quarter results confirm the strength of our strategic vision and the quality of the management team that is executing on it."
 
The following table summarizes the second quarter and six-month results for fiscal 2007 and 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the second quarter and six months segment operating results for fiscal 2007 and 2006 (in millions):
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter were flat at $3.6 billion and segment operating income increased 21% to $1.2 billion. The following table provides further detail of Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $154 million to $963 million for the quarter primarily due to growth at ESPN and, to a lesser extent, the international Disney Channels. The growth at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate revenues due to contractual rate increases and subscriber growth, higher advertising sales and lower costs, partially offset by higher revenue deferrals related to programming commitments. Lower costs reflected the airing of one fewer regular season NFL game and the benefit of the transition of ESPN's mobile phone operations to a licensing model. Revenue deferrals for the quarter increased by $85 million compared to the prior-year quarter primarily due to annual programming commitments in new affiliate contract provisions. The deferred revenues are expected to be recognized in the second half of the fiscal year. The increase at the international Disney Channels was primarily due to subscriber growth and a settlement of a claim in the bankruptcy of a distributor, partially offset by higher programming and other costs.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $52 million to $212 million for the quarter primarily due to fewer hours of sports programming and strong international and domestic syndication sales of ABC Studios productions, led by the returning series andand new seriesand. These increases were partially offset by increased costs associated with the Disney-branded mobile phone service.
Desperate Housewives, Lost,
Grey's Anatomy,
Ugly Betty
Brothers and Sisters
The Broadcast revenue decline was driven by the absence of the Super Bowl, three less College Bowl games and fewer hours of other sports programming at the ABC Television Network. In primetime, lower ratings were essentially offset by higher sold inventory and higher advertising rates.
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 9% to $2.4 billion and segment operating income increased 19% to $254 million. Segment operating income
 
growth reflected increases at Disneyland Resort Paris, Disneyland Resort, and Walt Disney World, partially offset by a decline at Hong Kong Disneyland.
Operating income growth at Disneyland Resort Paris, Disneyland Resort and Walt Disney World was due to increased guest spending, driven by higher average ticket prices and average daily room rates, and increased attendance, partially offset by higher operating costs at Walt Disney World and Disneyland Resort Paris. Higher operating costs at Walt Disney World were primarily due to labor cost inflation, new guest offerings, marketing and volume-related costs. Higher operating costs at Disneyland Resort Paris were driven by volume-related costs, marketing and labor cost inflation. Costs at the domestic resorts benefited from lower pension and post-retirement medical costs.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter decreased 13% to $1.6 billion and segment operating income increased 60% to $235 million. The decrease in revenues was primarily due to international theatrical distribution reflecting the strong performance of and in the prior-year quarter, as well as fewer titles in release in the current quarter.
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe
Chicken Little
Segment operating income growth was primarily due to improved domestic theatrical distribution results driven by a better-performing slate of titles in the current quarter and lower distribution expense due to timing of releases. Significant current-quarter releases included and while the prior-year quarter included and . The revenue decline in international theatrical distribution was largely offset by lower distribution costs, participation expense and production cost amortization resulting from fewer titles in the current quarter.
Wild Hogs
Bridge to Terabithia
Eight Below
Shaggy Dog
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 14% to $516 million and segment operating income increased 20% to $125 million.
The increase in segment operating income for the quarter was primarily due to growth in earned royalties across multiple product categories at Merchandise Licensing, including the strong performance of merchandise. Revenues also increased at Disney Interactive Studios (formerly Buena Vista Games) due to higher sales of self-published titles but were largely offset by higher costs of goods sold, product development spending and marketing costs.
Cars
 
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
Net interest expense decreased $15 million driven by lower average debt balances, partially offset by a $12 million recovery in the prior-year quarter in connection with the Company's leveraged lease investment with United Airlines which had been written off previously.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the quarter increased to 38.7% from 35.2% in the prior-year quarter. The increase was due to an adjustment to previously recognized tax benefits with respect to Hong Kong Disneyland and a reduction in the benefits from an exclusion of certain foreign source income.
The exclusion of certain foreign source income was repealed on a phase-out basis as part of the . No exclusion is available for transactions originating after the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow are detailed below (in millions):
 
Cash provided by operations increased by $579 million to $2.8 billion primarily due to higher operating performance at Studio Entertainment and Media Networks and lower NFL payments, partially offset by higher income tax payments due to the strong operating performance.
 
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment are as follows (in millions):
 
Depreciation expense is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
The total borrowings shown above include $3,373 million and $3,242 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of March 31, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $468 million and $599 million as of March 31, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively. The reduction in borrowings was primarily due to the repayment of medium-term notes in accordance with scheduled maturities and the redemption of quarterly interest bonds in the first quarter.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or income before income taxes and minority interests as determined in accordance with GAAP. Earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of the impact of significant dispositions of interests in businesses. During the current six months, significant impacts included gains on sales of equity investments in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly and a charge related to modification of equity-based compensation plans in connection with the ABC Radio transaction. In the prior six month period, significant impacts included gains on sales of a Spanish cable equity investment and Discover Magazine. The Company believes that earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of those items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of
Earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions
 
the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate separately the impact of decisions regarding the sale of interests in businesses from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items related to dispositions:
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
 
A reconciliation of segment operating income to income before income taxes and minority interests is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, May 8, 2007, at 1:30 PM PST/4:30 PM EST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through May 22, 2007 at 4:00 PM PST/7:00 PM EST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 and in subsequent reports on Form 10-Q under Item 1A, "Risk Factors".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


