FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20071108160918.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 8, 2007, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the year and quarter ended September 29, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
99.1 Press release of November 8, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 8, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 8, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
BURBANK, Calif.The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the fiscal year and fourth quarter ended September 29, 2007. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the year increased to $2.25, compared to $1.64 in the prior year. For the quarter, EPS increased to $0.44 compared to $0.36 in the prior-year quarter.
"We've delivered another year of outstanding financial results, powered by across-the-board creative strength," said Robert A. Iger, president and chief executive officer. "We believe our strong brands, combined with high-quality creative content and our ability to promote and distribute that content across multiple businesses and platforms, gives us a unique ability to continue delivering growth and value to our shareholders."
Results for the year included gains from the sales of E! Entertainment and Us Weekly, favorable adjustments related to prior-year income tax matters, and income from the discontinued operations of the ABC Radio business, partially offset by an equity-based compensation plan modification charge. Collectively, these items resulted in a net benefit of $0.33. The prior year benefited by $0.09 from certain items, which are detailed in the EPS Reconciliation table below. Excluding these items, EPS for the year increased 24% to $1.92 from $1.55 driven by growth at the Media Networks, Studio Entertainment and Parks and Resorts segments.
EPS for the quarter also benefited by $0.02 per share from adjustments related to prior-year income tax matters. Excluding this benefit, EPS increased 17% to $0.42 from $0.36 in the prior-year quarter driven by growth at Media Networks.
 
The following table summarizes the full year and fourth quarter results for fiscal 2007 and 2006 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the full year and fourth quarter segment operating results for fiscal 2007 and 2006 (in millions). Operating results of the ABC Radio business are reported as discontinued operations for the current and prior-year periods and therefore have been excluded from these segment results.
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the year increased 7% to $15.0 billion and segment operating income increased 23% to $4.3 billion. For the quarter, revenues increased 14% to $4.0 billion and segment operating income increased 25% to $1.1 billion. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $577 million to $3.6 billion for the year driven by increases at ESPN, the international Disney Channels and the domestic Disney-ABC Cable Networks. The growth at ESPN was primarily due to higher affiliate revenues, driven by contractual rate increases and subscriber growth, and higher advertising revenues. Higher advertising revenues reflected the addition of NASCAR programming in the current year. Operating income at ESPN also benefited from lower costs associated with mobile phone operations, which have transitioned to a licensing model. The increases at ESPN were partially offset by higher programming and production costs driven by the addition of NASCAR. Growth at the international Disney Channels was primarily due to increased affiliate revenue from subscriber growth and proceeds from the settlement of a claim with a distributor. The increase at the domestic Disney-ABC Cable Networks was due to higher affiliate revenues reflecting subscriber growth and rate increases, higher DVD unit sales driven by and increased advertising revenues, partially offset by higher programming costs.
High School Musical
For the quarter, operating income at Cable Networks increased $255 million to $1.1 billion primarily due to growth at ESPN and, to a lesser extent, the international Disney Channels. The growth at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate and advertising revenues, partially offset by higher programming and production costs. Higher affiliate revenues were due to increased recognition of previously deferred revenues related to annual programming commitments, higher contractual rates and subscriber growth. During the quarter, ESPN recognized $359 million of previously deferred revenues compared to $171 million in the prior-year quarter. Higher advertising revenues and increased programming costs reflected the addition of NASCAR programming in the
 
current year. Growth at the international Disney Channels was primarily due to the settlement of the distributor claim and higher affiliate revenues driven by subscriber growth.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $228 million to $703 million for the year primarily due to strong sales of ABC Studios productions as well as fewer hours of sports programming and higher primetime advertising revenue at the ABC Television Network. Sales of ABC Studios productions reflected higher international and DVD sales led by , and . The decrease in sports programming reflected the absence of Monday Night Football, the Super Bowl and three College Bowl games. Increased primetime advertising revenues were due to higher advertising rates and sold inventory, partially offset by the impact of lower ratings. These improvements were partially offset by increased costs of the Disney-branded mobile phone service including costs associated with its shutdown in the fourth quarter.
Desperate Housewives
Grey's Anatomy
Lost
For the quarter, operating income at Broadcasting decreased $40 million to a loss of $30 million. The decline was primarily due to a decrease in domestic syndication due to the prior-year sales of and and higher costs at the Internet Group, including costs associated with the shutdown of the Disney-branded mobile phone service.
According to Jim
Scrubs
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the year increased 7% to $10.6 billion and segment operating income increased 11% to $1.7 billion. For the quarter, revenues increased 10% to $2.8 billion and segment operating income increased 9% to $430 million. Operating income growth for both the year and quarter was due to increases at Walt Disney World, Disneyland Resort Paris and Disneyland Resort, partially offset by lower performance at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort.
Domestic Resorts
For the year, operating income growth at Walt Disney World was due to increased guest spending and theme park attendance, partially offset by higher operating costs. Increased guest spending was due to increased food, beverage and merchandise spending, higher average ticket prices and higher average daily room rates. Higher operating costs were driven by volume-related costs, labor cost inflation and new guest offerings, partially offset by lower pension and postretirement medical expense. Operating income growth at Disneyland Resort was due to increased guest spending primarily due to higher average ticket prices.
For the quarter, operating income growth at Walt Disney World was driven by increased theme park attendance and higher guest spending, partially offset by higher operating costs. Higher guest spending was primarily due to increased food, beverage and merchandise spending. The increase in operating costs was driven by volume-related costs, new guest offerings and labor cost inflation, partially offset by lower pension and postretirement medical expense. At Disneyland Resort, operating income growth was due to increased guest spending primarily due to higher average ticket prices.
 
International Resorts
Operating income growth at Disneyland Resort Paris for both the year and the quarter was driven by higher theme park attendance, increased guest spending due to higher average daily room rates and increased hotel occupancy. This growth was partially offset by higher operating costs, driven by volume-related expenses and labor cost inflation. Lower performance at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort for both the year and the quarter was driven by lower theme park attendance.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment segment operating income for the year increased 65% to $1.2 billion while revenues were essentially flat at $7.5 billion. For the quarter, segment operating income decreased 21% to $170 million and revenues decreased 24% to $1.5 billion.
For the year, higher operating income reflected the strong performance of current year titles including Disney/Pixar's , , and the Platinum Release in domestic home entertainment, compared to and the Platinum Release in the prior year. Revenues were essentially flat as the increase in domestic home entertainment revenues as well as revenue gains from the strong performance of the and soundtracks in the Disney music business were largely offset by lower revenues at worldwide theatrical distribution due to the strong performance of in the prior year.
Cars
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
Little Mermaid
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe
Cinderella
Hannah Montana
High School Musical
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
For the quarter, lower operating income was primarily due to a decrease in worldwide theatrical distribution reflecting the strong performance of in the prior-year quarter, partially offset by lower film cost write-downs and improvements in the Disney music business driven by the strong performance of and .
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
Hannah Montana
High School Musical
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the year increased 7% to $2.3 billion, and segment operating income increased 2% to $631 million. For the quarter, revenues increased 5% to $590 million, and segment operating income increased 10% to $153 million.
The increase in segment operating income for the year was primarily due to growth at Merchandise Licensing, partially offset by higher video game development costs at Disney Interactive Studios. Growth at Merchandise Licensing was primarily due to higher earned royalties across multiple product categories, led by merchandise.
Cars
 
For the quarter, the increase in segment operating income was primarily due to growth at Merchandise Licensing due to higher earned royalties across multiple product categories, led by and merchandise.
High School Musical
Cars
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
The increase in interest expense for the year was primarily due to higher effective interest rates at Hong Kong Disneyland. For the quarter, the increase in interest expense was driven by higher average debt balances.
Interest and investment income for the year and the quarter increased primarily due to higher average cash balances.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate was as follows:
 
The higher effective tax rate for the year and the quarter reflected a reduction in the tax benefits realized from an exclusion of certain foreign source income and higher effective state tax rates. For the current year quarter, these increases were partially offset by favorable adjustments related to prior-year income tax matters.
The exclusion of certain foreign source income was repealed on a phase-out basis as part of the . No exclusion is available for transactions originating after the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
Minority Interests
Minority interest expense decreased from $183 million to $177 million for the year and increased from $82 million to $100 million for the quarter. Minority interest expense for the year reflected the impact of increased losses at Hong Kong Disneyland, partially offset by the impacts of increased profits at ESPN and decreased losses at Disneyland Resort Paris. The increase for the quarter was due to the impact of increased profits at ESPN, partially offset by the impact of increased losses at Hong Kong Disneyland. The minority interest impact is determined on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.
 
Cash Flow
Cash provided by continuing operating activities and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
The Company generated $3.8 billion in free cash flow during fiscal 2007 compared to $4.7 billion in the prior year, reflecting a decrease of $0.6 billion in cash provided by operations and an increase of $0.3 billion in capital expenditures.
Cash provided by continuing operations decreased as higher operating performance at Media Networks, Studio Entertainment and Parks and Resorts was more than offset by higher income tax payments, including taxes paid on the E! Entertainment and Us Weekly gains, and timing of film and television spending and accounts receivable collections.
The increase in capital expenditures was driven by an increase at Parks and Resorts primarily due to a deposit on the construction of two new cruise ships and new rides and attractions at Disneyland Resort including the
Finding Nemo Submarine Voyage.
 
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property from continuing operations by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
Depreciation expense from continuing operations by segment is as follows (in millions):
 
Share Repurchases
During the year ended September 29, 2007, the Company repurchased 202 million shares for $6.9 billion, of which 51 million shares were purchased for $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter. As of September 29, 2007 the Company had authorization in place to repurchase 323 million additional shares.
 
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
The total borrowings shown above include $3,583 million and $3,242 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of September 29, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $604 million and $599 million as of September 29, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period, including significant dispositions and acquisitions. During the current year, these items included gains on sales of equity investments in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly, favorable adjustments related to prior-year income tax matters, the income or loss from the discontinued ABC Radio business and a charge related to modification of equity-based compensation plans in connection with the ABC Radio transaction. In the prior year, these items included the income from the discontinued ABC Radio business, gains on sales of a Spanish cable equity investment and Discover Magazine, favorable adjustments related to prior-year income tax matters and a net gain associated with the completion of the Pixar acquisition. The Company believes that earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of those
Earnings per share excluding certain items
 
items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate separately the impact of decisions regarding the sale and acquisition of interests in businesses from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items:
EPS Reconciliation
 
The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by continuing operating activities less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 
The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, November 8, 2007, at 1:30 PM PST/4:30 PM EST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through November 22, 2007 at 4:00 PM PST/7:00 PM EST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 and in subsequent reports on Form 10-Q under Item 1A, "Risk Factors".
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


