FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20081008170028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e) The Company has entered into a new employment agreement with Mr. Alan N. Braverman pursuant to which he has agreed to extend the term of his employment with the Company and an initial employment agreement with Mr. Kevin A. Mayer who previously served without an employment agreement.
The new employment agreement for Mr. Braverman (the "Braverman Agreement") was entered into on October 3, 2008 and has a stated term commencing as of October 1, 2008 and ending on the last day of the Company's fiscal year ending on or about September 30, 2013. The Braverman Agreement took effect as of the termination of the employment agreement Mr. Braverman entered into with the Company in 2003, which expired by its terms on September 30, 2008.
Braverman Agreement.
Under the Braverman Agreement, Mr. Braverman continues to serve as the Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. The agreement provides that Mr. Braverman will receive an annual salary of $1,100,000, commencing as of October 1, 2008 and that for each year thereafter the annual salary for Mr. Braverman will be determined by the Company in its sole discretion but shall not be less than $1,100,000. The Braverman Agreement provides that Mr. Braverman is also eligible for an annual, performance-based bonus under the Company's applicable annual incentive plan (currently, the Company's Management Incentive Bonus Program) and that the Compensation Committee will set a target bonus each year of not less than two times the annual base salary for Mr. Braverman expected to be in effect at the end of the applicable fiscal year. The actual amount payable to Mr. Braverman as an annual bonus will be dependent upon the achievement of performance objectives, which will be substantially the same as the objectives established under the plan for other senior executive officers of the Company. Depending on performance, the actual amount payable as an annual bonus to Mr. Braverman may be less than, greater than or equal to the stated target bonus (and could be zero).
The Braverman Agreement also provides that Mr. Braverman is entitled to participate in the Company's equity-based long-term incentive plans and programs generally made available to senior executive officers of the Company and that for each fiscal year during the term of the agreement, Mr. Braverman will be granted a long-term incentive award having a target value of not less than two times his expected fiscal year-end annual base salary. These awards will be subject to substantially the same terms and conditions (including vesting and performance conditions) as will be established for other senior executives of the Company in accordance with the Board's policies for the grant of equity-based awards, as in effect at the time of the award, and do not guarantee Mr. Braverman any minimum amount of compensation. The actual amounts payable to Mr. Braverman in respect of such opportunities will be determined based on the extent to which any performance conditions and/or service conditions applicable to such awards are satisfied and on the value of the Company's stock. Accordingly, Mr. Braverman may receive compensation in respect of any such award that is greater or less than the stated target value, depending on whether, and to what extent, the applicable performance and other conditions are satisfied, and on the value of the Company's stock.
 
As an inducement for Mr. Braverman to enter into the agreement, the Company awarded Mr. Braverman a one-time grant of 100,000 restricted stock units, each of which is the economic equivalent of one share of the Company's common stock (and which will be entitled to be credited with additional restricted stock units equivalent in value to any dividends payable on the Company's common stock). Subject to the terms and conditions of the awards, 50,000 of such restricted stock units shall vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant, and the remaining 50,000 shall vest on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant. In addition, in the event of any significant increase in planned responsibilities for Mr. Braverman by no later than September 30, 2009, the Company shall grant to Mr. Braverman an additional restricted stock unit award for 50,000 units, 25,000 of which shall be scheduled to vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant and 25,000 of which shall vest on the fourth anniversary the date of grant. Vesting of the awards is conditioned upon Mr. Braverman's continued employment with the Company through the second or fourth anniversary dates of each such award, as applicable, except in the event of death or disability or termination of Mr. Braverman's employment by the Company without cause or by him for good reason as described below. Vesting of the restricted stock units for both awards is also contingent upon the satisfaction of performance conditions to be established by the Compensation Committee for the purposes of complying with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the Braverman Agreement, Mr. Braverman is entitled to participate in employee benefits and perquisites generally made available to senior executives of the Company.
Mr. Braverman's employment may be terminated by the Company for "cause," which is defined to include gross negligence, gross misconduct, willful nonfeasance or a willful material breach of the Braverman Agreement.
Mr. Braverman has the right to terminate his employment for "good reason," which is defined as (i) a reduction in any of his base salary, annual target bonus opportunity or annual target long-term incentive award opportunity; (ii) his removal from the position of Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; (iii) a material reduction in his duties and responsibilities; (iv) the assignment to him of duties that are materially inconsistent with his position or duties or that materially impair his ability to function as Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary or any other position in which he is then serving; (vi) relocation of his principal office to a location that is more than 50 miles outside of the greater Los Angeles area; or (vii) a material breach of any material provision of the agreement by the Company. Following a change in control of the Company, as defined in the Company's 2005 Stock Plan, good reason also includes any event that is a triggering event as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan. A triggering event is defined to include a termination of employment by the Company other than for "cause" or a termination of employment by the participant following a reduction in position, pay or other "constructive termination."
 
In the event that Mr. Braverman's employment is terminated by the Company without "cause" or by him for "good reason", he will be entitled to termination benefits, which include the following: (i) a lump sum payment of the base salary that would have been payable over the remaining term of the Braverman Agreement, (ii) a pro-rated bonus for the year of termination (any prior-year bonus not yet paid at time of termination is also paid), and (iii) his outstanding unvested stock options and outstanding unvested restricted stock unit awards that could vest in accordance with their scheduled vesting provisions if Mr. Braverman's employment had continued through the remaining term of the agreement will be eligible to vest at the same time and subject to the same performance conditions as though Mr. Braverman continued in the Company's employ, and all stock options, whether vested on date of termination or vesting thereafter as described above, shall vest and remain exercisable to the same extent as if Mr. Braverman's employment had continued through the term of the agreement. However, the Braverman Agreement provides that, unless necessary to preserve the tax deductibility of the compensation payable in respect of restricted stock units, the Company will waive any performance conditions related to performance in future fiscal years that were imposed primarily to permit the Company to claim a tax deduction for the compensation payable in respect of such units.
To qualify for the foregoing cash severance benefit, pro-rated bonus (and prior-year bonus, if not already paid), opportunity to vest in unvested equity awards available under the Braverman Agreement and extended exercisability of stock options following an involuntary termination by the Company without cause, or a termination by Mr. Braverman for good reason, Mr. Braverman must execute a release in favor of the Company and agree to provide the Company with certain consulting services for a period of six months after his termination (or, if less, for the remaining term of the Braverman Agreement). Additionally, during the period of these consulting services, Mr. Braverman must also agree not to provide any services to entities that compete with any of the Company's business segments.
If any payments to Mr. Braverman would be subject to excise tax as an "excess parachute payment" under federal income tax rules, the Company has agreed to pay him an additional amount to compensate for the incremental tax costs of such payments, provided that the maximum additional compensation payable to Mr. Braverman for this purpose will not exceed $2,000,000.
The new employment agreement for Mr. Mayer (the "Mayer Agreement") was entered into on October 6, 2008 and has a stated term commencing as of October 1, 2008 and ending on the last day of the Company's fiscal year ending on or about September 30, 2012.
Mayer Agreement.
Under the Mayer Agreement, Mr. Mayer continues to serve as the Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy. The agreement provides that Mr. Mayer will receive an annual salary of $700,000, commencing as of October 1, 2008 and that for each year thereafter the annual salary for Mr. Mayer will be determined by the Company in its sole discretion but shall not be less than $700,000. The Mayer Agreement provides that Mr. Mayer is also eligible for an annual, performance-based bonus under the Company's applicable annual incentive plan (currently, the Company's Management Incentive Bonus Program) and that the Compensation Committee will set a target bonus each year of not less than 125% of the annual base salary for Mr. Mayer expected to be in effect at the end of the applicable fiscal year. The actual amount payable to Mr. Mayer as an annual bonus will be dependent upon the achievement of performance objectives, which will be substantially the same as the objectives established under the plan for other senior executive officers of the Company. Depending on performance, the actual amount payable as an annual bonus to Mr. Mayer may be less than, greater than or equal to the stated target bonus (and could be zero).
 
The Mayer Agreement also provides that Mr. Mayer is entitled to participate in the Company's equity-based long-term incentive plans and programs generally made available to senior executive officers of the Company. These awards will be subject to substantially the same terms and conditions (including vesting and performance conditions) as will be established for other senior executives of the Company in accordance with the Board's policies for the grant of equity-based awards, as in effect at the time of the award. Such awards do not guarantee Mr. Mayer any minimum amount of compensation. The actual amounts payable to Mr. Mayer in respect of such opportunities will be determined based on the extent to which any performance conditions and/or service conditions applicable to such awards are satisfied and on the value of the Company's stock. Accordingly, Mr. Mayer may receive compensation in respect of any such award that is greater or less than the stated target value, depending on whether, and to what extent, the applicable performance and other conditions are satisfied, and on the value of the Company's stock.
Under the Mayer Agreement, Mr. Mayer is entitled to participate in employee benefits and perquisites generally made available to senior executives of the Company.
Mr. Mayer's employment may be terminated by the Company for "cause," which is defined to include gross negligence, gross misconduct, willful nonfeasance or a willful material breach of the Mayer Agreement.
Mr. Mayer has the right to terminate his employment for "good reason," which is defined as (i) a reduction in his base salary or annual target bonus opportunity; (ii) his removal from the position of Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy; (iii) a material reduction in his duties and responsibilities; (iv) the assignment to him of duties that are materially inconsistent with his position or duties or that materially impair his ability to function as Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy or any other position in which he is then serving; (vi) relocation of his principal office to a location that is more than 50 miles outside of the greater Los Angeles area; or (vii) a material breach of any material provision of the agreement by the Company. Following a change in control of the Company, as defined in the Company's 2005 Stock Plan, good reason also includes any event that is a triggering event as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan. A triggering event is defined to include a termination of employment by the Company other than for "cause" or a termination of employment by the participant following a reduction in position, pay or other "constructive termination."
In the event that Mr. Mayer's employment is terminated by the Company without "cause" or by him for "good reason", he will be entitled to termination benefits, which include the following: (i) a lump sum payment of the base salary that would have been payable over the remaining term of the Mayer Agreement, (ii) a pro-rated bonus for the year of termination (any prior-year bonus not yet paid at time of termination is also paid), and (iii) his outstanding unvested stock options and outstanding unvested restricted stock unit awards that could vest in accordance with their scheduled vesting provisions if Mr. Mayer's employment had continued through the
 
remaining term of the agreement will be eligible to vest at the same time and subject to the same performance conditions as though Mr. Mayer continued in the Company's employ, and all stock options, whether vested on date of termination or vesting thereafter as described above, shall vest and remain exercisable to the same extent as if Mr. Mayer's employment had continued through the term of the agreement. However, the Mayer Agreement provides that, unless necessary to preserve the tax deductibility of the compensation payable in respect of restricted stock units, the Company will waive any performance conditions related to performance in future fiscal years that were imposed primarily to permit the Company to claim a tax deduction for the compensation payable in respect of such units.
To qualify for the foregoing cash severance benefit, pro-rated bonus (and prior year bonus, if not already paid), opportunity to vest in unvested equity awards available under the Mayer Agreement and extended exercisability of stock options following an involuntary termination by the Company without cause, or a termination by Mr. Mayer for good reason, Mr. Mayer must execute a release in favor of the Company and agree to provide the Company with certain consulting services for a period of six months after his termination (or, if less, for the remaining term of the Mayer Agreement). Additionally, during the period of these consulting services, Mr. Mayer must also agree not to provide any services to entities that compete with any of the Company's business segments.
The Braverman Agreement and Mayer Agreement contain covenants for the benefit of the Company relating to non-competition during the term of employment, protection of the Company's confidential information, and non-solicitation of Company employees for one year following termination of his employment for any reason.
The agreements of Mr. Braverman and Mr. Mayer are attached as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 respectively to this Report and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 8, 2008
 

Exhibit 10.1
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (""), dated as of October 1, 2008, by and between The Walt Disney Company, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Alan N. Braverman ("").
Agreement
Company
Executive
WHEREAS, the Company and its subsidiaries have employed Executive in various senior officer positions, most recently as Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company; and
WHEREAS, the Company has most recently employed Executive pursuant to an employment agreement, dated September 26, 2003, which expired by its own terms on September 30, 2008; (the ""); and
2003 Agreement
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive wish to enter into this Agreement to provide for his continued service to the Company;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:
1. . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the Company hereby employs Executive and Executive hereby accepts employment by the Company for the period commencing on October 1, 2008 and ending on the last day of fiscal year of the Company ending on or about September 30, 2013 (or such earlier date as shall be determined pursuant to Paragraph 5). The period during which Executive is employed pursuant to this Agreement shall be referred to as the "".
Employment
Employment Period
2. . During the Employment Period, Executive shall serve as Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company and in such other position or positions with the Company and its subsidiaries, consistent with his position as Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company, as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") shall reasonably assign Executive from time to time. Executive shall report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. During the Employment Period, Executive shall devote substantially all his business time to the services required of him hereunder, and shall perform such services in a manner consonant with the duties of his position. Executive shall be subject to the terms and conditions of any applicable policy of the Company (including, without limitation, "The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Standards of Business Conduct" booklet) regarding service (including as a director) on behalf of the Company or any
Position and Duties
Board
 
other organization, provided that, subject to the provisions of Paragraph 8(a), nothing herein shall preclude Executive from () engaging in charitable activities and community affairs, and () managing his personal investments and affairs, so long as the activities listed in subclauses (i)-(ii) do not materially interfere, individually or in the aggregate, with the proper performance of his duties and responsibilities as the Company's Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.
i
ii
3. .
Compensation
(a) . Executive shall receive an annual salary of $1,100,000 for the first year of the term. For each year thereafter, Executive will receive an annual salary in an amount determined by the Company in its sole discretion, , , that none of such annual salaries shall be less than $1,100,000.
Base Salary
provided
however
The amount of annual base salary currently payable under this Paragraph 3(a) shall be reduced, however, to the extent Executive elects in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "") and the regulations and interpretations thereunder (""), to defer such salary under the terms of any deferred compensation or savings plan or arrangement maintained or established by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Executive's annual base salary payable hereunder, without reduction for any amounts deferred as described above, is referred to herein as the "". The Company shall pay Executive the portion of his Base Salary not deferred at the election of Executive in accordance with its generally applicable policies for senior executives, but not less frequently than in equal monthly installments.
Code
Section 409A
Base Salary
(b) . Executive shall be given the opportunity to earn an annual incentive bonus in accordance with the annual bonus plan generally applicable to the Company's executive officers, as the same may be in effect from time to time (the ""). Executive's target annual incentive bonus opportunity under the Annual Plan during each fiscal year during the term hereof shall be no less than twice Executive's Base Salary as expected to be in effect at the end of such fiscal year. The actual amount payable to Executive as an annual bonus under the Annual Plan shall be dependent upon the achievement of performance objectives established in accordance with the Annual Plan by the Board or the committee of the Board responsible for administering such Annual Plan (the ""), which shall be substantially the same as the objectives established under the Annual Plan for other senior executive officers of the Company. The preceding sentence shall not limit any power or discretion of the Board or the Committee in the administration of the Annual Plan. Accordingly, depending on performance, the actual amount payable as an annual bonus to Executive under the Annual Plan may be less than, greater than or equal to the target bonus specified above. Any bonus payable pursuant to this
Incentive Compensation
Annual Plan
Compensation Committee
 
Paragraph 3(b) shall be paid at the same time as annual bonuses are payable to other officers of the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Annual Plan, subject to Executive's continued employment with the Company through the date on which such bonuses are paid (except that, with respect to any annual bonus payable to Executive for the fiscal year ending on or about September 30, 2013, Executive need only be employed through the end of such fiscal year, and any such annual bonus will be paid no later than March 15, 2014).
(c) . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Executive shall be entitled to participate in any stock option, performance share, performance unit or other equity based long-term incentive compensation plan, program or arrangement generally made available to senior executive officers of the Company, on substantially the same terms and conditions as generally apply to such other officers, except that the size of the awards made to Executive shall reflect Executive's position with the Company and the Compensation Committee's evaluation of Executive's performance and competitive compensation practices. During each fiscal year during the term hereof, Executive shall receive an annual award with a target award value (which value shall be as determined in accordance with the policies and practices generally applicable to other senior executives of the Company) of not less than two times Executive's Base Salary as expected to be in effect at the end of such fiscal year; it being understood that the form of the award shall be determined by the Compensation Committee and such form shall be subject to the terms of the applicable plan or plans of the Company. The preceding sentence shall not limit any power or discretion of the Board or the Committee in the administration of any such long-term incentive plan. The Compensation Committee may increase the award value of any award made in respect of any such fiscal year based on its evaluation of Executive's performance. The actual benefits conveyed to Executive in respect of any such awards may be less than, greater than or equal to the targeted award value, as such benefits will be dependent on a series of performance and other factors, such as the value of the Company's common stock and satisfaction of any applicable vesting requirements and performance conditions.
Eligibility for Equity Awards
(d) In connection with the execution of this Agreement by the Company and Executive, Executive shall be granted an award of 100,000 restricted stock units of the Company. Such award:
(i) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable stock incentive plan of the Company;
 
(ii) shall vest in equal tranches at the rate of:
(A) 50% on the second anniversary of the date of grant of the award, and
(B) 50% on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant of the award,
subject in each case to Executive's continued employment by Company and to the other provisions of the applicable stock incentive plan; and
(iii) shall be subject to such performance conditions as are imposed by the Compensation Committee in accordance with its customary policies and practices in order to ensure compliance with Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and the Company's 2002 Executive Performance Plan (the ""), it being understood that, notwithstanding any other term or provision hereof, the payment of any amount to Executive pursuant to such award shall be subject to the Compensation Committee's having first certified in writing that the applicable Section 162(m) Performance Condition(s) specified with respect to such award have been satisfied.
Section 162(m) Performance Condition(s)
(e) In the event that Executive shall take on any significant increase in responsibilities during the Employment Period, the Compensation Committee shall grant Executive an award of 50,000 restricted stock units of the Company (it being contemplated that such award shall be made by no later than September 30, 2009, if any such increase in responsibilities or in planned responsibilities is confirmed by such date). Such award:
(i) shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable stock incentive plan of the Company;
(ii) shall vest in equal tranches at the rate of:
(A) 50% on the second anniversary of the date of grant of the award, and
(B) 50% on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant of the award,
subject in each case to Executive's continued employment by Company and to the other provisions of the applicable stock incentive plan; and
 
(iii) shall be subject to such Section 162(m) Performance Condition(s) as are imposed by the Compensation Committee, it being understood that, notwithstanding any other term or provision hereof, the payment of any amount to Executive pursuant to such award shall be subject to the Compensation Committee's having first certified in writing that the applicable Section 162(m) Performance Condition(s) specified with respect to such award have been satisfied.
4. .
Benefits, Perquisites and Expenses
(a) . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be eligible to participate in () each welfare benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company and made available generally to its senior officers, including, without limitation, each group life, hospitalization, medical, dental, health, accident or disability insurance or similar plan or program of the Company, and () each pension, profit sharing, retirement, deferred compensation or savings plan sponsored or maintained by the Company for its senior officers, in each case, whether now existing or established hereafter, in accordance with the generally applicable provisions thereof.
Benefits
i
ii
(b) . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to receive such perquisites as are generally provided to other senior officers of the Company in accordance with the then current policies and practices of the Company.
Perquisites
(c) . The Company shall pay or reimburse Executive for all reasonable expenses incurred or paid by Executive during the Employment Period in the performance of Executive's duties hereunder, upon presentation of expense statements or vouchers and such other information as the Company may require and in accordance with the generally applicable policies and procedures of the Company.
Business Expenses
(d) . The Company shall provide Executive with an indemnification agreement ("") which shall be in form substantially equivalent to the form of indemnification agreement currently provided to its senior officers generally, which shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
Indemnification
Indemnification Agreement
5. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, the Employment Period shall end upon the earliest to occur of () Executive's death, () a Termination due to Disability, () a Termination for Cause, () the Termination Date specified in connection with any exercise by the Company of its Termination Right or () a Termination for Good Reason. If the
Early Termination of the Employment Period
i
ii
iii
iv
v
 
Employment Period terminates as of a date specified under this Paragraph 5, Executive agrees that, upon written request from the Company, he shall resign from any and all positions he holds with the Company and any of its subsidiaries and affiliates, effective immediately following receipt of such request from the Company (or at such later date as the Company may specify).
(b) .
Benefits Payable Upon Termination
(i) In the event of Executive's death during the Employment Period or a Termination due to Disability, Executive or his beneficiaries or legal representatives shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements, including, but not limited to, any such Unconditional Entitlements that are or become payable under any Company plan, policy, practice or program or any contract or agreement with the Company by reason of Executive's death or Termination due to Disability.
(ii) In the event of Executive's Termination for Cause, Executive shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements.
(iii) In the event of a Termination for Good Reason or the exercise by the Company of its Termination Right, Executive shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements and the Company shall provide Executive the Conditional Benefits, subject to () Executive's execution of the Release, () Executive having not revoked such Release within the seven-day revocation period permitted following delivery of such Release and () Executive's execution of the Consulting Agreement. For Executive to become entitled to the Conditional Benefits, Executive must deliver both the executed Release and the executed Consulting Agreement to the Company by no later than twenty-two (22) days following the Termination Date.
A
B
C
(c) . For purposes of this Agreement, the "" to which Executive may become entitled under Paragraph 5(b) are as follows:
Unconditional Entitlements
Unconditional Entitlements
(i) . The Earned Compensation shall be paid within 30 days following the termination of Executive's employment hereunder, or if any part thereof constitutes a bonus which is subject to or conditioned upon any performance conditions, within thirty (30) days following the determination that such conditions have been met, in no event shall the bonus be paid later than 90 days following his termination of employment.
Earned Amounts
provided
that
 
(ii). All benefits payable to Executive under any employee benefit plans (including, without limitation any pension plans or 401(k) plans) of the Company or any of its affiliates applicable to Executive at the time of termination of Executive's employment with the Company and all amounts and benefits (other than the Conditional Benefits) which are vested or which Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under the terms of or in accordance with any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract or agreement with, the Company, at or subsequent to the date of his termination without regard to the performance by Executive of further services or the resolution of a contingency, shall be paid or provided in accordance with and subject to the terms and provisions of such plans, it being understood that all such benefits shall be determined on the basis of the actual date of termination of Executive's employment with the Company. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, Executive shall not be entitled to any benefits under any severance plan or policy of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Benefits
(iii) . Any right which Executive may have to claim a defense and/or indemnity for liabilities to or claims asserted by third parties in connection with Executive's activities as an officer, director or employee of the Company or any of its affiliates pursuant to the terms of the Indemnification Agreement referenced in Paragraph 4(d) shall be unaffected by Executive's termination of employment and shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms.
Indemnities
(iv) . Executive shall be entitled to such continuation of health care coverage as is required under, and in accordance with, applicable law or otherwise provided in accordance with the Company's policies. Executive shall be notified in writing of his rights to continue such coverage after the termination of his employment pursuant to this Paragraph 5(c)(iv), provided that Executive timely complies with the conditions to continue such coverage. Executive understands and acknowledges that Executive is responsible to make all payments required for any such continued health care coverage that Executive may choose to receive.
Medical Coverage
(v) . Executive shall be entitled to reimbursement, in accordance with the Company's policies regarding expense reimbursement as in effect from time to time, for all business expenses incurred by him prior to the termination of his employment.
Business Expenses
 
(vi). Except to the extent additional rights are provided upon Executive's qualifying to receive the Conditional Benefits, Executive's rights with respect to any stock options and/or restricted stock units granted to him by the Company shall be governed by the terms and provisions of the plans (including plan rules) and award agreements pursuant to which such stock options and restricted stock units were awarded, as in effect at the date Executive's employment terminates.
Stock Options/RSUs
(d) . For purposes of this Agreement, the "" to which Executive may become entitled, provided he complies with the terms and conditions hereof (including the applicable agreements attached hereto), are as follows:
Conditional Benefits
Conditional Benefits
(i) As noted in paragraph 2 of the Consulting Agreement, the Company shall pay Executive a lump sum amount equal to the Consulting Amount as compensation for his consulting services under the Consulting Agreement. If the Scheduled Expiration Date is later than the end of the Consulting Agreement Period, the Company shall also pay Executive the Severance Amount. The Consulting Amount and the Severance Amount shall be paid on the date that is six months and one day after the Termination Date (or upon Executive's death, if earlier).
Remaining Salary.
(ii) . All of Executive's Continuing Unvested Options shall become exercisable in accordance with the applicable Original Stock Option Award Documents, on the same basis as such options would have become vested and exercisable if Executive had remained employed under this Agreement through the Scheduled Expiration Date. Once exercisable, all Continuing Unvested Options shall remain exercisable until the Stock Option Termination Date. All of Executive's Remaining Stock Options that were vested and exercisable at the Termination Date shall remain exercisable until the Stock Option Termination Date. Notwithstanding any other term or provision hereof, any of Executive's stock options which are not vested at the Termination Date, and which are not Continuing Unvested Options, shall automatically terminate upon the Termination Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all of the Remaining Stock Options shall continue to be subject to the Original Stock Option Award Documents. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of Executive's death prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, all Continuing Unvested Options shall vest on the date of Executive's death and all Remaining Stock Options shall be exercisable for the period following Executive's death as determined under such Original Stock Option Award Documents on the same basis as though Executive was employed on the date of his death and regardless of when
Stock Options
 
the Stock Option Termination Date occurs. However, any provisions in the Original Stock Option Award Documents relating to disability or change in control of the Company after the Termination Date shall not be operative with respect to any Remaining Stock Options.
(iii) . The Remaining Stock Units shall continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the Original RSU Award Documents, regardless of Executive's termination of employment. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all such Remaining Stock Units shall be subject to, and administered in accordance with, the Original RSU Award Documents. Any of Executive's restricted stock unit awards that have not become vested on or before the Termination Date, and that are outstanding at the Termination Date, but which are not Remaining Stock Units, shall automatically terminate on the Termination Date. Notwithstanding any term or provision of the Original RSU Award Documents:
RSUs
(A) any provisions in such Original RSU Award Documents relating to disability shall not be applicable to any such Remaining Stock Units after the Termination Date;
(B) for so long as this Agreement shall be in effect (that is, regardless of whether the Termination Right has been exercised or a Termination for Good Reason shall have occurred), any terms in any of the Original RSU Award Documents relating to a change in control of the Company shall not be operative unless the event that constitutes a change in control of the Company also constitutes a "change in control event" with respect to the Company within the meaning of Section 409A;
(C) in the event of Executive's death after the Termination Date but prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, the terms and provisions of the Original RSU Award Documents shall be interpreted and applied in the same manner with respect to such Remaining Stock Units as if Executive were an active employee on the date of his death; and
(D) to the extent that, under the Company's compensation practices and policies, any tranche of Remaining Stock Units is subject to the achievement of performance conditions which were imposed solely because Executive was an executive officer of the Company who could have been a covered employee within the meaning of Section 162(m) at the time payment in respect of such award was expected to be made (the "") and such Applicable 162(m)
Applicable 162(m) Criteria
 
Criteria relate, in whole or in part, to any performance period continuing after the end of the Company's fiscal year in which the Termination Date occurs, such Applicable 162(m) Criteria shall be waived as of the Termination Date with respect to such tranche of the Remaining Stock Units; provided, however, that this Paragraph 5(d)(iii)(D) shall not be applicable if and to the extent, in the reasonable opinion of tax counsel to the Company, the presence of such provision would cause any stock units intended to be qualified as other performance based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code to fail to be so qualified at any time prior to Executive's Termination Date.
(iv) . A pro rata annual bonus for the year in which the Termination Date occurs, determined on the basis of an assumed full-year target bonus determined pursuant to Section 3(b) and the number of days in the applicable fiscal year occurring on or before the Termination Date. Such pro-rata current year bonus shall be paid no later than the later of () two and a half months after the end of Executive's tax year in which the Termination Date occurs and () two and a half months after the end of the Company's tax year in which the Termination Date occurs.
Pro-Rated Current Year Bonus
i
ii
(v) . The following additional rules shall apply with respect to distribution of the payments and benefits, if any, to be provided to Executive under Paragraph 5(d)(i), (iii) and (iv):
Additional Distribution Rules in Respect of Conditional Benefits
(A) It is intended that each installment of the payments and benefits provided under Paragraphs 5(d)(i), (iii) and (iv) shall be treated as a separate "payment" for purposes of Section 409A. Neither the Company nor Executive shall have the right to accelerate or defer the delivery of any such payments or benefits except to the extent specifically permitted or required by Section 409A;
(B) Distribution in respect of any tranche of Remaining Stock Units to which Paragraph 5(b)(iii)(D) applies shall be made within 90 days following the later of the date that () the service conditions that had originally been specified for such tranche of Remaining Stock Units under the applicable Original RSU Award Documents would otherwise have been satisfied (had Executive continued to be employed) and () the last performance measurement period applicable in respect of such tranche of
i
ii
 
Remaining Stock Units under the applicable Original RSU Award Documents would otherwise have expired;
(C) Each installment of the payments and benefits due under Paragraph 5(d)(i) and (iii) that would, absent this subsection, be paid within the six-month period following Executive's "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and as provided in Paragraph 5(g) hereof) from the Company shall not be paid until the date that is six months and one day after such separation from service (or, if earlier, Executive's death), with any such installments that are required to be delayed being accumulated during the six-month period and paid in a lump sum on the date that is six months and one day following Executive's separation from service; provided, however, that the preceding provisions of this sentence shall not apply to any installment of payments and benefits if and to the maximum extent that that such installment is deemed to be paid under a separation pay plan that does not provide for a deferral of compensation by reason of the application of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) (relating to separation pay upon an involuntary separation from service). (Any installments that qualify for the exception under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) must be paid no later than the last day of Executive's second taxable year following the taxable year of Executive's in which the separation from service occurs.) Any subsequent installments that would be payable more than six months following Executive's separation from service shall be paid in accordance with the dates and terms set forth herein.
(e) . For purposes of this Paragraph 5, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below:
Definitions
"" means the consulting agreement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Consulting Agreement
"" means the period established under the Consulting Agreement during which Executive shall be required to provide consulting services to the Company.
Consulting Agreement Period
"" means a lump sum amount equal to the aggregate Base Salary which would have been earned by Executive had his employment under this Agreement continued after the Termination Date and through the earlier to occur of () the end of the Consulting Agreement Period or () any earlier date that the Consulting Agreement terminates for any reason whatsoever.
Consulting Amount
i
ii
 
"" means any of Executive's stock options that were not vested and exercisable at the Termination Date, but that would have become vested and exercisable on or prior to the Latest Stock Option Vesting Date had Executive continued to be employed by the Company through the Scheduled Expiration Date.
Continuing Unvested Options
"" means the sum of () any Base Salary earned, but unpaid, for services rendered to the Company on or prior to the date on which the Employment Period ends pursuant to Paragraph 5(a) (but excluding any salary and interest accrued thereon payment of which has been deferred) and () if Executive's employment terminates due to Executive's death or in a Termination due to Disability or a Termination for Good Reason or due to the Company's exercise of its Termination Right, in any case, after the end of a fiscal year, but before the annual incentive compensation payable for services rendered in that fiscal year has been paid, the annual incentive compensation that would have been payable to Executive for such completed fiscal year in accordance with Paragraph 3(b).
Earned Compensation
a
b
"" means the date which is three months after the Scheduled Expiration Date.
Latest Stock Option Vesting Date
"" means, with respect to any Remaining Stock Option, the terms and provisions of the award agreement and plan pursuant to which such Remaining Stock Option was granted, each as in effect on the Termination Date.
Original Stock Option Award Documents
"" means, with respect to any tranche of Remaining Stock Units, the terms and provisions of the award agreement related to and the plan governing, such tranche of Remaining Stock Units, each as in effect on the Termination Date.
Original RSU Award Documents
"" means the General Release in the form set forth in Exhibit B attached hereto.
Release
"" means any of Executive's stock options which are () vested at the Termination Date or () Continuing Unvested Options.
Remaining Stock Options
i
ii
" means any of Executive's restricted stock units outstanding at the Termination Date (whether or not subject to performance conditions) that, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions, would have become vested on or prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date had Executive continued to be employed by the Company through the Scheduled Expiration Date.
"
Remaining Stock Units
 
"" means the last day of the fiscal year ending on or about September 30, 2013.
Scheduled Expiration Date
"" means an amount equal to the aggregate Base Salary which would have been earned by Executive under this Agreement (including any scheduled increase therein) for the period commencing on the day after termination of the Consulting Agreement Period and ending on the Scheduled Expiration Date; if the Company terminates the Consulting Agreement due to Executive's material breach of the terms thereof, the Severance Amount shall be reduced to zero.
Severance Amount
provided
that
"" means with respect to any Remaining Stock Option the earlier to occur of () the date which is three months after the Scheduled Expiration Date and () the expiration of the stated term of such award.
Stock Option Termination Date
i
ii
"" means a termination of Executive's employment by the Company due to () gross negligence, () gross misconduct, () willful nonfeasance or () willful material breach of this Agreement, which termination may be effected (A) immediately upon notice from the Company if the Company shall reasonably and in good faith determine that the conduct or cause specified in such notice is not curable (it being understood that such notice shall describe in reasonable detail the conduct or cause giving rise to such notice and shall state the reason(s) why the Company has determined that such conduct or cause is not curable); or (B) upon twenty business days notice from the Company, if the Company shall reasonably and in good faith determine that the conduct or cause specified in such notice is curable (it being understood that such notice shall describe in reasonable detail the conduct or cause giving rise to such notice and shall state the reason(s) why the Company has determined that such conduct or cause is curable and what steps the Company believes should or could be taken to cure such conduct or cause); provided that the Company shall not be entitled to terminate Executive's employment for Cause, if Executive has, within five business days after the date notice in accordance with subclause (B) has been given personally to Executive or otherwise has been received by Executive, commenced in good faith to cure the conduct or cause specified in such notice and completes such cure within 20 business days following the date such notice was received.
Termination for Cause
i
ii
iii
iv
"" means the earlier to occur of () the date the Company specifies in writing to Executive in connection with the exercise of its Termination Right or () the date Executive specifies in writing to the Company in connection with any notice to effect a Termination for Good Reason.
Termination Date
i
ii
 
"" means a termination of Executive's employment by the Company because Executive has been incapable, after reasonable accommodation, of substantially fulfilling the positions, duties, responsibilities and obligations set forth in this Agreement because of physical, mental or emotional incapacity resulting from injury, sickness or disease for a period of () six consecutive months or () an aggregate of nine months (whether or not consecutive) in any twelve month period. Any question as to the existence, extent or potentiality of Executive's disability shall be determined by a qualified physician selected by the Company with the consent of Executive, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Executive or his legal representatives or any adult member of his immediate family shall have the right to present to such physician such information and arguments as to Executive's disability as he, she or they deem appropriate, including the opinion of Executive's personal physician.
Termination due to Disability
i
ii
"" means a termination of Executive's employment by Executive within 30 days of the Company's failure to cure, in accordance with the procedures set forth below, any of the following events: () a reduction in any of Executive's compensation rights hereunder (that is, Base Salary, target bonus opportunity specified in Paragraph 3(b) or annual target incentive awards specified in Paragraph 3(c)), it being understood that the failure of Executive to receive an actual bonus for any fiscal year equal to or greater than the target bonus opportunity, or to receive in respect of any equity award granted an amount that is equal to or greater than the annual target incentive value ascribed to such award is not a reduction in such compensation rights, but a failure to effect a scheduled increase in the Base Salary would be a reduction in such compensation rights; () the removal of him by the Company from the position of Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; () a material reduction in Executive's duties and responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to such reduction; () the assignment to Executive of duties that are materially inconsistent with his position or duties or that materially impair Executive's ability to function as Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary or any other position in which he is then serving; () the relocation of Executive's principal office to a location that is more than 50 miles outside of the greater Los Angeles area; or () a material breach of any material provision of this Agreement by the Company. In addition, following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in the Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "") and the Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (the "")), any occurrence that would constitute a Triggering Event for purposes of Section 11 of the 2005 Stock Plan and
Termination for Good Reason
i
ii
iii
v
vi
vii
2005 Stock Plan
1995 Stock Plan
 
the 1995 Stock Plan (the ""), as such Plans may be amended from time to time, shall also constitute an event upon which Executive may effect a Termination for Good Reason in accordance with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a termination shall not be treated as a Termination for Good Reason () if Executive shall have consented in writing to the occurrence of the event giving rise to the claim of Termination for Good Reason, or () unless Executive shall have delivered a written notice to the Chief Executive Officer or Board within three months of his having actual knowledge of the occurrence of one of such events stating that he intends to terminate his employment for Good Reason and specifying the factual basis for such termination, and such event, if capable of being cured, shall not have been cured within 30 days of the receipt of such notice.
Plans
A
B
"" means the right of the Company, in its sole, absolute and unfettered discretion, to terminate Executive's employment under this Agreement for any reason or no reason whatsoever. For the avoidance of doubt, any Termination for Cause effected by the Company shall not constitute the exercise of the its Termination Right.
Termination Right
(f) . As permitted under the terms of the applicable Plans, the Company and Executive agree that the definitions of Termination for Cause or Termination for Good Reason set forth in this Paragraph 5 shall apply in place of any similar definition or comparable concept applicable under either of the Plans (or any similar definition in any successor plan), except that, in connection with a "Triggering Event" as defined in the Plans, as such Plans may be amended from time to time, the terms of the applicable plan (and not the definitions of Termination for Cause or Termination for Good Reason set forth in this Paragraph 5) shall apply to determine Executive's rights and entitlements in respect of the awards made under any such plan (and only in respect of such awards).
Conflict With Plans
(g) . To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the requirements of Section 409A, and this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent. Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, any payment required to be made to Executive hereunder upon his termination of employment (including any payment to this Paragraph 5) shall be made promptly after the six month anniversary of Executive's date of termination to the extent necessary to avoid imposition on Executive of any tax penalty imposed under Section 409A of the Code. Solely for purposes of determining the time and form of payments due Executive under this Agreement (including any payments due under Paragraphs 3(a) or 7) or otherwise in connection with his termination of employment with the Company, Executive shall not be deemed to have incurred a termination of
Section 409A
 
employment unless and until he shall incur a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. The parties agree, as permitted in accordance with the final regulations thereunder, a "separation from service" shall occur when Executive and the Company reasonably anticipate that Executive's level of bona fide services for the Company (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) will permanently decrease to no more than 40 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed by Executive for the Company over the immediately preceding 36 months. The determination of whether and when a separation from service has occurred shall be made in accordance with this subparagraph and in a manner consistent with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). To the extent that the Company and Executive determine that any provision of this Agreement could reasonably be expected to result in Executive's being subject to the payment of interest or additional tax under Section 409A, the Company and Executive agree, to the extent reasonably possible as determined in good faith, to amend this Agreement, retroactively, if necessary, in order to avoid the imposition of any such interest or additional tax under Section 409A. All reimbursements and in-kind benefits provided under the Agreement shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A to the extent that such reimbursements or in-kind benefits are subject to Section 409A, including, where applicable, the requirements that (i) any reimbursement is for expenses incurred during Executive's lifetime (or during a shorter period of time specified in this Agreement), (ii) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during a calendar year may not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year, (iii) the reimbursement of an eligible expense will be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the year in which the expense is incurred and (iv) the right to reimbursement is not subject to set off or liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.
(h) . The parties acknowledge and agree that to the extent that this Paragraph 5 affects any of the terms and conditions of Executive's Remaining Stock Options or Remaining Stock Units, this Agreement shall constitute an amendment of the Original Stock Option Award Documents and Original RSU Award Documents as they pertain to Executive.
Amendment of Existing Agreements
6. . Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment or other engagement of his services. Executive acknowledges and agrees that the payments and rights provided under Paragraph 5 are fair and reasonable, and are Executive's sole and exclusive remedy, in lieu of all other remedies at law or in equity, for termination of his employment by the Company upon exercise of its Termination Right pursuant to this Agreement or upon a Termination for Good Reason. The failure of Executive to execute and timely deliver the Release and, if applicable, the Consulting Agreement for any reason () shall limit his rights in connection with the exercise by the Company of its Termination Right solely to the right to receive the Unconditional
Exclusive Remedy
i
 
Entitlements, () shall not effect a modification of any of his commitments set forth in this Agreement (none of which are contingent upon execution of the Release by him) and () shall not preserve or revive any rights waived by Executive hereunder. Subject to Executive's execution and delivery of the Release without revocation thereof and execution and delivery of the Consulting Agreement, (i) the Company agrees to enter into the Release and (ii) there shall be no offset available to the Company against any amounts due, paid or payable to him in respect of the Contingent Benefits under Paragraph 5 with respect to any compensation, remuneration or payment attributable to any services that Executive may provide to any third party subsequent to termination of employment hereunder, whether as an employee or otherwise.
ii
iii
7. . In the event that the aggregate of all payments or benefits made or provided to the Executive under this Agreement and under all other plans, programs or arrangements of the Company (the "") constitutes a parachute payment, as such term is defined in Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, the Company shall pay to the Executive, prior to the time any excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code ("") is payable with respect to such Aggregate Payment, an additional amount which, after the imposition of all income and excise taxes and interest and penalties thereon, is equal to the Excise Tax on the Aggregate Payment. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, (i) if the Aggregate Payments are less than 110% of the product of () three (3) times () Executive's Base Amount (as such term is defined in Section 280G of the Code), the Company shall have no obligation to make any additional payments under this Paragraph 7 and the Aggregate Payments to Executive shall be reduced such that no amount payable to Executive shall be subject to the Excise Tax, and (ii) in no event shall the aggregate amount of payments made to Executive under this Paragraph 7 exceed $2,000,000. Solely to the extent that the Executive is better off on an after-tax basis as a result of the reduction of Aggregate Payments, such payments and benefits shall be reduced or eliminated, as determined by the Company, in the following order: (i) any cash payments, (ii) any taxable benefits, (iii) any nontaxable benefits, and (iv) any vesting or accelerated delivery of equity awards, in each case in reverse order beginning with the payments or benefits that are to be paid the farthest in time from the date that triggers the applicable Excise Tax. The determination of whether the Aggregate Payment constitutes a Parachute Payment and, if so, the amount to be paid to the Executive and the time of payment pursuant to this Paragraph 7 shall be made by an independent accounting firm (the "") selected by the Company prior to the Change in Control. The Accounting Firm shall be a nationally recognized United States public accounting firm which has not, during the two years preceding the date of its selection, acted in any way on behalf of () the Company or any affiliate thereof or () Executive. In the event that the Excise Tax is later determined by the Accounting Firm or pursuant to any proceeding or negotiations with the Internal Revenue Service to exceed the amount taken into account hereunder at the time the payment is made under this Paragraph 7 (including, but not limited to, by reason of any payment the existence or amount of which cannot be determined at the time of such payment), the Company shall
Additional Payments Following a Change in Control
Aggregate Payment
Excise Tax
A
B
Accounting Firm
x
y
 
make an additional payment in respect of such excess (plus any interest or penalty payable with respect to such excess) at the time that the amount of such excess is finally determined. In the event that the Excise Tax is subsequently determined by the Accounting Firm or pursuant to any proceeding or negotiations with the Internal Revenue Service to be less than the amount taken into account hereunder in calculating the payment to be made pursuant to this Paragraph 7, Executive shall repay to the Company, at the time that the amount of such reduction in the Excise Tax is finally determined, the portion of such prior payment that would not have been paid if such Excise Tax had been applied in initially calculating such payment, plus interest on the amount of such repayment at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any portion of the payment made hereunder that is to be refunded to the Company has been paid to any Federal, state or local tax authority, repayment thereof shall not be required until actual refund or credit of such portion has been made to Executive, and interest payable to the Company shall not exceed interest received or credited to Executive by such tax authority for the period it held such portion. Executive and the Company shall mutually agree upon the course of action to be pursued (and the method of allocating the expenses thereof) if Executive's good faith claim for refund or credit is denied.
8. .
Non-competition and Confidentiality
(a) . During the Employment Period, Executive shall not engage in any business, or become associated with any entity, whether as a principal, partner, employee, consultant, shareholder or otherwise (other than as a holder of not in excess of 1% of the outstanding voting shares of any publicly traded company) that is actively engaged in any business, in any geographic area, which is in competition with a business conducted by the Company or any of its affiliates at the time of the alleged competition.
Non-competition
(b) . Without the prior written consent of the Company, except () as reasonably necessary in the course of carrying out his duties hereunder or () to the extent required by an order of a court having competent jurisdiction or under subpoena from an appropriate government agency, Executive shall not disclose any trade secrets, customer lists, drawings, designs, information regarding product development, existing theatrical projects, marketing plans, sales plans, manufacturing plans, management organization information (including data and other information relating to members of the Board and management), operating policies or manuals, business plans, financial records or other financial, commercial, business or technical information relating to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or information designated as confidential or proprietary that the Company or any of its subsidiaries may receive belonging to suppliers, customers or others who do business with the Company or any of its subsidiaries (collectively, "") unless such Confidential Information has been previously disclosed to the public
Confidentiality
i
ii
Confidential Information
 
by the Company or has otherwise become available to the public (other than by reason of Executive's breach of this Paragraph 8(b)). In addition, Executive acknowledges and agrees that he has executed or will be required to execute, the standard form of agreement, entitled "The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Confidentiality Agreement," a copy of which has been previously provided to Executive.
(c) . Promptly following Executive's termination of employment, Executive shall return to the Company all property of the Company, and all copies thereof in Executive's possession or under his control, except that Executive may retain his personal notes, diaries, Rolodexes, calendars and correspondence of a personal nature.
Company Property
(d) . During the Employment Period and, subject to the provisions of applicable law, during the two-year period following any termination of Executive's employment, Executive shall not, except in the course of carrying out his duties hereunder, directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries to terminate employment with such entity, and shall not directly or indirectly, either individually or as owner, agent, employee, consultant or otherwise, knowingly employ or offer employment to any person (other than his personal assistants) who is or was employed by the Company or a subsidiary thereof unless such person shall have ceased to be employed by such entity for a period of at least six (6) months.
Non-Solicitation of Employees
(e) . Executive acknowledges and agrees that the covenants and obligations of Executive with respect to noncompetition, nonsolicitation, confidentiality and the Company property relate to special, unique and extraordinary matters and that a violation of any of the terms of such covenants and obligations may cause the Company irreparable injury for which adequate remedies are not available at law. Therefore, Executive agrees that the Company shall be entitled to obtain an injunction, restraining order or such other equitable relief restraining Executive from committing any violation of the covenants and obligations contained in this Paragraph 8. These injunctive remedies are cumulative and are in addition to any other rights and remedies the Company may have at law or in equity.
Injunctive Relief with Respect to Covenants
9. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . Paragraphs 5 (relating to early termination of the Employment Period), 7 (relating to certain additional payments following a change in control), 8 (relating to nondisclosure and nonsolicitation of employees) and 9(o) (relating to governing law) shall survive the termination hereof, whether such termination shall be by expiration of the Employment Period in accordance
Survival
 
with Paragraph 1 or an early termination of the Employment Period pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof.
(b) . This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and any person or entity that succeeds to the interest of the Company (regardless of whether such succession does or does not occur by operation of law) by reason of a merger, consolidation or reorganization involving the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. The Company further agrees that, in the event of a sale of assets as described in the preceding sentence, it shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such assignee or transferee to expressly assume the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company hereunder. This Agreement shall also inure to the benefit of Executive's heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives and beneficiaries as provided in Paragraph 9(d).
Binding Effect
(c) . Except as provided under Paragraph 9(b), neither this Agreement nor any of the rights or obligations hereunder shall be assigned or delegated by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party.
Assignment
(d) . Executive shall be entitled, to the extent permitted under any applicable law and the terms of any applicable plan, to select and change a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit payable hereunder following Executive's death by giving the Company written notice thereof. In the event of Executive's death or a judicial determination of his incompetence, reference in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to refer to his beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.
Beneficiaries/References
(e) . This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters referred to herein; provided that this Agreement shall not alter, amend, or supercede () except as specifically provided in Paragraph 5, any agreement that evidences the terms of any equity grant made prior to the date hereof or () the Indemnification Agreement referenced in Paragraph 4(d). This Agreement expressly supersedes the 2003 Agreement except for those provisions of the 2003 Agreement that by their terms survive the expiration thereof. There are no promises, representations, inducements or statements between the parties other than those that are expressly contained herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit, modify or supersede The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Confidentiality Agreement executed by Executive, which shall survive regardless of the termination of this Agreement and/or the 2003 Agreement.
Entire Agreement
i
ii
 
(f) . Executive represents that his employment hereunder and compliance by him with the terms and conditions of this Agreement will not conflict with or result in the breach of any agreement to which he is a party or by which he may be bound. The Company represents that () it is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. () it has the full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and () the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized.
Representations
i
ii
iii
(g) . For the avoidance of doubt, nothing is this Agreement shall preclude the Board from its ability to exercise any power or authority to take such actions as it is required or permitted to take as a matter of law or pursuant to the terms of the Company's governing documents. Nothing in this Paragraph 9(g) shall be construed to modify, amend, limit or otherwise impair the rights and entitlements of Executive set forth in the other Paragraphs of this Agreement (including, without limitation, the rights and entitlements specified in Paragraph 5).
Authority of the Board
(h) . In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected thereby. In the event any of Paragraph 8(a), (b) or (d) is not enforceable in accordance with its terms, Executive and the Company agree that such subparagraph of such Paragraph 8 shall be reformed to make such Paragraph enforceable in a manner which provides the Company the maximum rights permitted at law.
Severability; Reformation
(i) . Waiver by any party hereto of any breach or default by the other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be implied from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by either party hereto to assert its or his rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.
Waiver
(j) . Any notice required or desired to be delivered under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally, by courier service, by registered mail, return receipt requested, or by telecopy and shall be effective upon actual receipt when delivered or sent by telecopy and upon mailing when sent by registered mail, and shall be addressed as follows (or to such other address as the party entitled to notice shall hereafter designate in accordance with the terms hereof):
Notices
 
If to the Company:
The Walt Disney Company
500 South Buena Vista Avenue
Burbank, California 91521
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
Telecopy No.: (818) 560-5960
with a copy to: Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer
Telecopy No.: (818) 560-3770
If to Executive:
To the address listed as Executive's principal residence in the Company's human resources records and to his principal place of employment with the Company.
(k) . No amendment to this Agreement shall be binding between the parties unless it is in writing and signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought.
Amendments
(l) . Headings to paragraphs in this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only and are not intended to be part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation hereof.
Headings
(m) . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
(n) . Any payments provided for herein shall be reduced by any amounts required to be withheld by the Company from time to time under applicable federal, state or local income or employment tax laws or similar statutes or other provisions of law then in effect.
Withholding
(o) . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without reference to principles of conflicts or choice of law under which the law of any other jurisdiction would apply.
Governing Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and Executive has hereunto set his hand as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
(hereinafter referred to as "") is made and entered into by and between Alan N. Braverman (hereinafter referred to as "") and The Walt Disney Company (hereinafter referred to as "") on and as of , 20 pursuant to that certain Employment Agreement by and between Executive and Company dated as of October 1, 2008 (the ""). All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Employment Agreement.
THIS CONSULTING AGREEMENT
Agreement
Consultant
Company
            
    
Employment Agreement
1. (a) Unless this Agreement is earlier terminated as hereinafter provided, for a period following the termination of Consultant's employment under the Employment Agreement equal to the lesser of 6 months or the remaining period of the Term of the Employment Agreement (the ""), Consultant shall personally and diligently provide to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company such consulting services as the Chief Executive Officer may reasonably request from time to time, provided that such services shall relate to matters appropriate for the former Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company and shall be a type and nature and duration typical for a post-employment consulting agreement with the former Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. Consultant shall not be required to report to Employer's offices and shall be permitted, subject to the terms hereof, to provide consulting services to third parties during the term hereof, provided (i) in no event shall consulting services or other services or advice of any nature be provided by Consultant, directly or indirectly (whether as an employee, consultant, independent contractor, agent, partner, principal, owner or otherwise) to any person or entity which directly or indirectly owns, operates, manages, develops, controls or provides services to, any business involved in any of the following activities: (A) the conception, creation, development, production, purchase, sale, distribution, broadcast, transmission or other disposition (including, without limitation, the licensing and/or merchandising of related consumer products) of audio and/or visual product or works of any nature in any media, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any activity relating to () any aspect of the network, cable, broadcasting, television (including pay-per-view, closed circuit or any inter-active form of distribution of television or other audio/visual product) or internet businesses, or () the development, marketing or distribution by any vehicle whatsoever of any film or television product or any similar content in any media, whether or not now existing, () the operation, management, development, licensing and promotion of themed resorts, hotels and restaurants or amusement or themed entertainment parks; or () the design, development, publishing, promotion or sale of products based on cartoon or other animated characters, films, television and theatrical productions and other intellectual property derived therefrom, in each case, only to the extent that such person or entity is actively engaged in any geographic area in any business which is in competition with a business conducted
Consulting Agreement Period
i
ii
B
C
 
by the Company or one of its affiliates at the time of the performance of such services (the ""), and (ii) that any services required by Company shall at all times be provided with precedence being given to Company and on a "first priority" basis to Company, although Company shall endeavor to provide, when possible, reasonable notice to Consultant of all services required hereunder and to give due consideration, to the extent practicable, to any prior commitments Consultant may have at such time. In no event shall Consultant be required to devote more than 13.5 hours per week to services to Company hereunder, and the parties agree an understand that Consultant's expected commitment to such services shall regularly be less than the stated maximum weekly hours.
Specified Activities
(b) In the event of a material uncured breach by Consultant of any term or provision of this paragraph 1 hereof, all of which terms and conditions Consultant acknowledges and agrees are of the essence of this Agreement, or any other term or provision hereof, Company by action of the Board shall have the right, in addition to any other right of remedy available to it at law or in equity, to terminate this Agreement. In such event Company shall have no further obligation to make payments or perform or honor any commitments under the Release or to pay or honor any commitments which relate to or constitute any of the Conditional Benefits; , , that notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specifically provided in the immediately preceding sentence, no breach of this Agreement by Consultant, no termination of this Agreement by Company, and no other action or inaction by either of them (other than the execution by the parties of a written agreement amending or superseding the Release or any part thereof) shall in any event or under any circumstances have any effect whatsoever on the validity, enforceability, binding nature, effect or interpretation of the release set forth in paragraph 7 of the Release, and the release set forth therein shall remain in full force and effect.
provided
however
(c) In the event that Consultant shall receive a notice of breach of this Agreement from the Board, Consultant shall have ten (10) business days to cure such breach unless the Board shall have determined in its good faith business judgment that such breach is not curable. Any notice of termination pursuant to this paragraph 2 shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for such breach and shall contain a statement as to whether or not such breach has been determined to be curable by the Board. In the event that he receives a notice of breach of the Agreement from the Board, Executive may challenge such finding of a breach, by written notice to the Board, and shall be afforded an opportunity to present his objection to the Board, in person or in writing, as determined by the Board, prior to Company having any right to terminate this Agreement and the Conditional Benefits provided under the Employment Agreement.
2. Consultant shall receive gross consulting fees for his services hereunder which, for any period during the Consulting Agreement Period, shall equal the amount of gross salary Consultant would have earned had he remained as an employee of the Company under the Employment Agreement for such period. The consulting fee payments shall be made at the date set forth in Paragraph 5(d)(i) of the Employment Agreement.
 
3. Company shall reimburse Consultant, in accordance with the procedures of Company then in effect for its employees, for reasonable business expenses incurred by Consultant in the course of performing the services hereunder.
4. Company, its successors, privies and assigns shall be entitled to, and shall, own as their exclusive property all of the results and proceeds of the services (which results and proceeds are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "") in whatever stage of completion, all of which shall be considered a work-for-hire, including, without limitation, all written work, research, plot outlines, computer programs, plans, drawings, paintings, sculptures, fanciful creations, specifications, ideas, scripts, sketches, designs, concepts, software, systems, reports, documentation, and other tangible or intangible work product produced. Company shall own all rights in the Work Product in perpetuity throughout the universe including, without limitation, the rights to produce, manufacture, record, reproduce, distribute, transfer or prepare derivative works from the Work Product by any art, medium or method and all copyrights, trademarks and/or patents in the Work Product. Company shall be deemed the sole author of the Work Product and is entitled to the copyright therein (and all renewals and extensions thereof), and the full ownership to the original and all copies of the Work Product. Company shall have the right to dispose of the Work Product and/or make any or all uses thereof as it, at any time and in the exercise of its sole discretion, may desire. Consultant shall deliver all originals and copies of the Work Product (whether completed or in process) and all research, plans, designs, specifications and any other work product or information which pertains to the Work Product to Company upon completion of the services performed hereunder or upon earlier termination of this Agreement. Consultant shall not retain, use or disclose any of the Work Product without Company's prior written consent. The termination, completion or breach of this Agreement on whatever grounds and by whomsoever affected shall not affect Company's exclusive ownership of the Work Product. Consultant hereby assigns to Company all now known or hereafter existing rights of every kind throughout the universe, in perpetuity and in all languages, pertaining to the Work Product, including, without limitation, all exclusive exploitation rights, of every kind and nature, including, but not limited to, all trademarks, copyrights and neighboring rights, to the full extent such assignment is allowed by law, and any renewals and extensions therefor throughout the universe, in perpetuity, or for the duration of the rights in each country, and in all languages. Consultant acknowledges that new rights to the Work Product may come into being or be recognized in the future, under the law or in equity (the ""), and Consultant intends to and does hereby grant and convey to Company any and all such New Exploitation Rights to the Work Product. Consultant is also aware and acknowledges that new or changed technology, uses, media, format, modes of transmission and methods of distribution, dissemination, exhibition or performance (the "") are being and will inevitably continue to be developed in the future, which would offer new opportunities for exploiting the Work Product. Consultant intends to and does hereby grant and convey to Company any and all rights to such New Exploitation Methods with respect to the Work Product. Consultant agrees to execute, at any time upon Company's request, such further documents and do such other acts as may be required to evidence or confirm Company's
Work Product
New Exploitation Rights
New Exploitation Methods
 
exclusive ownership of and exploitation rights to the Work Product and to effectuate Consultant's purpose to convey such rights to Company including, but not limited to, the New Exploitation Rights and any and all of the New Exploitation Methods. Consultant agrees that he will not seek to (i) challenge, through the courts, administrative governmental bodies, private organizations or in any other manner, the rights of Company to exploit the Work Product by any means whatsoever or (ii) thwart, hinder or subvert the intent of the preceding grants and conveyances to Company, or the collection by Company of any proceeds relating to the rights conveyed under this Agreement. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Agreement.
5. This Agreement is for the personal services of Consultant and may not be subcontracted or assigned by Consultant in any fashion, whether by operation of law, or by conveyance of any type, without the prior written consent of Company, which consent Company may withhold in its sole discretion. Company may not assign all or any portion of this Agreement at any time to any of its affiliates or to any other person.
6. (a) Consultant, by virtue of this Agreement, shall acquire no right to use, and shall not use, the name "Disney" or "ABC" or "American Broadcasting Companies" or "ESPN" (either alone or in conjunction with or as a part of any other word, mark, or name) or any marks, fanciful characters or designs of The Walt Disney Company, or Company or any of their related, affiliated, or subsidiary companies in any advertising, publicity, or promotion; to express or imply any endorsement by Disney or Company or any of their related, affiliated or subsidiary companies of Consultant's services; or in any other manner whatsoever (whether or not similar to the uses hereinabove specifically prohibited). Consistent with his obligations under Paragraph 7, this Paragraph 6(a) shall not prevent Executive from using such names to describe his activities with respect to Company and its subsidiaries under and prior to the Employment Agreement and under this Agreement.
(b) Consultant hereby represents and warrants to Company that as of the date of this Agreement, Consultant does not provide any services (including, without limitation, as an employee) to any person or entity that (i) is engaged in, or whose affiliated entities are engaged in, one or more of the Specified Activities or (ii) advises or provides consulting services to any person or entity that is engaged in, or whose affiliated entities are engaged in, any business or activity relating to or constituting one or more of the Specified Activities. Consultant further represents and warrants to Company that he shall make written disclosure to Company prior to providing any services, during the term of this Agreement, to any of the above mentioned persons or entities.
7. Consultant may, during the course of Consultant's engagement hereunder, have access to, and acquire knowledge of or from, materials, data, strategies, systems or other information relating to the services hereunder or Company, or its parent, related, affiliated or subsidiary companies, which may not be accessible or known to the general public (including, but not limited to, the existence of this Agreement and the terms hereof
 
and any Work Product not readily available to the general public) (""). Any such knowledge acquired by Consultant shall be kept confidential and shall not be used, published, or divulged by Consultant to any other person, firm, or corporation, or in any advertising or promotion regarding Consultant or Consultant's services, or in any other manner or connection whatsoever without first having obtained the prior written permission of Company, which permission Company may withhold in its sole discretion; provided that Consultant shall have no greater duty or obligation in respect of such Confidential Information than applies to Executive under Paragraph 8(b) the Employment Agreement. Upon Company's request, Consultant shall immediately return to Company or destroy, all documents, magnetic copies, or other physical evidence of all Confidential Information in Consultant's possession or in the possession of any of Consultant's directors, officers, employees, agents or representatives (including, without limitation, all copies, transcriptions, notes, extracts, analyses, compilations, studies, or other documents, records, or data prepared by Consultant) which contain or otherwise reflect or are generated from the Confidential Information without retaining any copy thereof, all of the foregoing being Confidential Information and the sole property of Company, Consultant shall certify to Company that all of the foregoing has been returned or destroyed as provided in this paragraph. Consultant agrees that Company would be irreparably harmed by any violation or threatened violation of this paragraph and that, therefore, Company shall be entitled to an injunction prohibiting Consultant from any violation or threatened violation of this paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Agreement.
Confidential Information
8. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to conflicts of laws principles.
9. The terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Release and Paragraphs 5 and 7 of the Employment Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersede all previous communications, representations, or agreements, either oral or written, between the parties relating to such subject matter hereof. No change, alteration or modification of this Agreement shall be effective unless made in writing and signed by both parties hereto.
, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
EXHIBIT B
WHEREAS, Alan N. Braverman (hereinafter referred to as "Executive") and The Walt Disney Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") are parties to an Employment Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2008 (the "Employment Agreement"), which provided for Executive's employment with the Company on the terms and conditions specified therein; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to paragraph 6 of the Employment Agreement, Executive and the Company have agreed to execute mutual releases of the type and nature set forth in this Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual promises herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration received in accordance with the terms of the Employment Agreement, it is agreed as follows:
1. (a) Upon the later of (i) the execution hereof by the Company and Executive, (ii) the passage of seven days following execution hereof by Executive without Executive's having exercised the revocation rights referred to in paragraph 12 hereof and (iii) the time specified in the Employment Agreement for payment of a particular item of compensation, the Company shall (x) provide Executive the amounts and benefits described in Paragraph 5 of the Employment Agreement and (y) make full payment for vacation and floating holidays accrued but unused as of the date hereof, less amounts required to be withheld by law or authorized by Executive to be withheld (it being understood that from and after the date hereof no further rights to vacation or floating holidays or compensation therefor shall accrue or be payable to Executive). Such payment shall be made by check payable to Executive.
(b) The covenants and commitments of the Company referred to herein (including, specifically, but without limitation, any and all benefits conferred upon Executive pursuant to Paragraph 5 of the Employment Agreement) shall be in lieu of and in full and final discharge of any and all obligations to Executive for compensation, severance payments, or any other expectations of payment, remuneration, continued coverage of any nature or benefit on the part of Executive arising out of or in connection with Executive's employment with the Company, or under any agreement, arrangement, commitment, plan, program, practice or policy of the Company, or otherwise, other than as expressly provided in the Employment Agreement.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other term or provision hereof, Executive shall be entitled to such rights as are vested in Executive as of the Termination Date, or as are expressly provided in the Employment Agreement, under and subject to the terms of (i) the Employment Agreement, (ii) any applicable retirement plan(s) to which Executive may be subject, (iii) any applicable stock option plan or other incentive compensation plan of the Company to which Executive may be subject, (iv) any right which Executive now has or may hereafter have to claim a defense and/or indemnity for liabilities to third parties in connection with his activities as an employee of the Company or any of its affiliates pursuant to the terms of any applicable statute, under any insurance policy, pursuant to the certificate of incorporation or bylaws or established policies of the Company or any affiliate thereof or pursuant to written agreement (including, without limitation, the Indemnification Agreement) expressly providing
 
for such indemnity between Executive and the Company or any affiliate thereof, and (v) any other applicable employee welfare benefit plans to which Executive may be subject. Further, Executive shall be entitled to such continuation of health care coverage as is required under, and subject to, applicable law, of which Executive shall be notified in writing after the Termination Date, provided Executive timely exercises Executive's rights in accordance therewith. Executive understands and acknowledges that all payments for any such continued health care coverage he may elect will be paid by him, except to the extent the Employment Agreement provides that such payments shall be made by the Company.
2. Executive confirms that, on or prior to seven (7) days from the date hereof, Executive shall turn over to the Company all files, memoranda, records, credit cards and other documents and physical or personal property that Executive received from the Company or that Executive generated in connection with his employment by the Company or that are the property of the Company.
3. It is the desire and intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this Agreement be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under law. Should there be any conflict between any provision hereof and any present or future law, such law will prevail, but the provisions affected thereby will be curtailed and limited only to the extent necessary to bring them within the requirements of law, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and be fully valid and enforceable.
4. Executive represents and agrees (a) that Executive has to the extent he desires discussed all aspects of this Agreement with his attorney, (b) that Executive has carefully read and fully understands all of the provisions of this Agreement, and (c) that Executive is voluntarily entering into this Agreement.
5. Excluding enforcement of the covenants, promises and/or rights reserved herein, Executive hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases, acquits and forever discharges the Company and each of the Company's owners, stockholders, predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives, attorneys, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates (and agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives and attorneys of such companies, divisions, subsidiaries and affiliates) and all persons acting by, through, under or in concert with any of them (collectively "Releasees"), or any of them, from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs actually incurred) of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, including, but not limited to, rights arising out of alleged violations of any contracts, express or implied, any covenant of good faith and fair dealing, express or implied, or any tort or any legal restrictions on the Company's right to terminate employees, or any Federal, state or other governmental statute, regulation or ordinance, including, without limitation, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Federal Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended, and the California Fair Employment and Housing Act that Executive now has, or has ever had, or ever will have, against each or any of the Releasees, by reason of any and all acts, omissions, events, circumstances or facts existing or occurring up through the date of Executive's execution hereof that directly or indirectly arise out of, relate to, or are connected with, Executive's services to, or employment by the Company (any of the foregoing being an "Executive Claim" or, collectively, the "Executive Claims").
 
6. Executive expressly waives and relinquishes all rights and benefits afforded by California Civil Code Section 1542 and does so understanding and acknowledging the significance of such specific waiver of Section 1542. Section 1542 states as follows:
"A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."
Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the purpose of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of the Releasees, Executive expressly acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to include in its effect, without limitation, all Executive Claims that Executive does not know or suspect to exist in Executive's favor at the time of execution hereof, and that this Agreement contemplates the extinguishment of any such Executive Claim or Executive Claims.
7. Excluding enforcement of the covenants, promises and/or rights reserved herein or in the Employment Agreement, and except as otherwise provided in the at the end of this sentence, the Company, hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases, acquits and discharges Executive, and Executive's heirs, assigns and successors in interest ("Executive Releasees") from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorney's fees and costs actually incurred), of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, including, but not limited to, rights arising out of alleged violations of any contracts, express or implied, any covenant of good faith and fair dealing, express or implied, or any tort, that the Company now has, or has ever had, or ever will have, against Executive and/or the Executive Releasees, by reason of any and all acts, omissions, events, circumstances or facts existing or occurring up through the date of the Company's execution hereof, that directly or indirectly arise out of, relate to, or are connected with, Executive's services to, or employment by the Company (hereinafter referred to as a "Claim" or collectively, the "Claims"); , , that, notwithstanding any other term or provision hereof, any Claim or Claims rising out of, or resulting from, in part or whole, (i) any illegal or fraudulent act(s) or illegal or fraudulent omission(s) to act of Executive, (ii) any action(s) or omission(s) to act which would constitute self-dealing or a breach of Executive's confidentiality obligations to the Company or any affiliate thereof, or a breach of The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Confidentiality Agreement executed by Executive, or (iii) the policy of the Board of Directors of the Company, as the same may be in effect from time to time, regarding the ability of the Company to recoup bonus or incentive payments as a result of the Company being required to restate its financial results due to material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements under the securities laws are hereby expressly excluded in their entirety from the foregoing release, acquittal and discharge and are unaffected thereby (any Claim or Claims not so excluded pursuant to this being hereinafter referred to as a the "Company Claim" or, collectively, as the "Company Claims").
proviso
provided
however
,
proviso
8. Except as expressly reserved herein, the Company expressly waives and relinquishes all rights and benefits afforded by California Civil Code Section 1542 and does so understanding
 
and acknowledging the significance of such specific waiver of Section 1542. Section 1542 states as follows:
"A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."
Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the purpose of implementing a full and complete release, acquittal and discharge of the Executive Releasees with respect to the Company Claims only, the Company expressly acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to include in its effect, without limitation, all the Company Claims that the Company does not know or suspect to exist in the Company's favor at the time of execution hereof, and that this Agreement contemplates the extinguishment of any such Company Claims. Notwithstanding anything in this Release to the contrary, if at any time (whether during or after the Employment Period) the Company is required to restate its financial results due to material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements under the securities laws, nothing in this Release shall be construed to limit the rights of the Company and the Board of Directors of the Company to seek or obtain recovery from Executive of any incentive compensation (including profits realized from the sale of Company securities) previously paid, or the cancellation of any outstanding awards, in accordance with the terms of the Company's policy, as in effect from time to time, regarding the ability of the Company to recoup any bonus or incentive payments under such circumstances.
9. Executive understands that Executive has been given a period of 21 days to review and consider this Agreement before signing it pursuant to the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended. Executive further understands that Executive may use as much of this 21-day period as Executive wishes prior to signing.
10. Executive acknowledges and represents that he understands that he may revoke the waiver of his rights under the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended, effectuated in this Agreement within 7 days of signing this Agreement. Revocation can be made by delivering a written notice of revocation to the Chief Executive Officer, The Walt Disney Company, 500 South Buena Vista Street, Burbank, California 91521; with a copy to the Company's Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer at the same address. For this revocation to be effective, written notice must be received by the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer no later than the close of business on the seventh day after Executive signs this Agreement. If Executive revokes the waiver of his rights under the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended, the Company shall have no obligations to Executive hereunder, and this Agreement and the Employment Agreement shall have no further force and effect.
11. Executive and the Company respectively represent and acknowledge that in executing this Agreement neither of them is relying upon, and has not relied upon, any representation or statement not set forth herein made by any of the agents, representatives or attorneys of the Releasees or of the Executive Releasees with regard to the subject matter, basis or effect of this Agreement or otherwise.
 
12. This Agreement shall not in any way be construed as an admission by any of the Company Releasees or Executive Releasees, respectively, that any the Company Releasee or Executive Releasee has acted wrongfully or that the Company or Executive has any rights whatsoever against any of the Company Releasees or Executive Releasees except as specifically set forth herein, and each of the Company Releasees and Executive Releasees specifically disclaims any liability to any party for any wrongful acts.
13. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California. This Agreement is binding on the successors and assigns of, and sets forth the entire agreement between, the parties hereto; fully supersedes any and all prior agreements or understandings between the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof; and may not be changed except by explicit written agreement to that effect subscribed by the parties hereto.
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. THIS SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE INCLUDES A RELEASE OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of October 1, 2008, by and between The Walt Disney Company, a Delaware corporation ("the "), and Kevin A. Mayer ("").
Company
Executive
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive wish to enter into an agreement (this "") to provide for Executive's continued services to the Company;
Agreement
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:
1. . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the Company hereby employs Executive, and Executive hereby accepts employment by the Company, for the period commencing as of October 1, 2008 and ending on the last day of the fiscal year ending on or about September 30, 2012 (or such earlier date as shall be determined pursuant to Paragraph 5). The period during which Executive is employed pursuant to this Agreement shall be referred to as the "."
Employment
Employment Period
2. . During the Employment Period, Executive shall serve as Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, and Technology of the Company, and in such other position or positions with the Company and its subsidiaries, consistent with his position as Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, and Technology, as the Company shall reasonably assign Executive from time to time. During the Employment Period, Executive shall devote substantially all his business time to the services required of him hereunder, and shall perform such services in a manner consonant with the duties of his position. Executive shall be subject to the terms and conditions of any applicable policy of the Company (including, without limitation, "The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Standards of Business Conduct" booklet), as interpreted from time to time by the Company, regarding service (including as a director) on behalf of the Company or any affiliated organization, provided that, subject to the provisions of Paragraph 7(a), nothing herein shall preclude Executive from () engaging in charitable activities and community affairs, and () managing his personal investments and affairs, so long as the activities listed in subclauses (i)-(ii) do not materially interfere, individually or in the aggregate, with the proper performance of his duties and responsibilities as Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, and Technology of the Company.
Position and Duties
i
ii
 
3.
Compensation.
(a) . Executive shall receive an annual salary of $700,000 for the first year of the term. For each year thereafter, Executive will receive an annual salary in an amount determined by the Company in its sole discretion, , , that none of such subsequent annual salaries shall be less than $700,000. Salary payments shall be made in equal installments in accordance with Company's then prevailing payroll policy.
Base Salary
provided
however
The amount of annual base salary payable under this Paragraph 3(a) shall be reduced, however, to the extent Executive elects in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and the regulations and interpretations thereunder (""), to defer such salary under the terms of any deferred compensation or savings plan or arrangement maintained or established by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Executive's annual base salary payable hereunder, without reduction for any amounts deferred as described above, is referred to herein as the "." The Company shall pay Executive the portion of his Base Salary not deferred at the election of Executive in accordance with its generally applicable policies for senior executives, but not less frequently than in equal monthly installments.
Code
Section 409A
Base Salary
(b) . Executive shall be given the opportunity to earn an annual incentive bonus in accordance with the annual bonus plan generally applicable to the Company's executive officers, as the same may be in effect from time to time (the ""). Executive's target annual incentive bonus opportunity under the Annual Plan during each full fiscal year during the term hereof shall be no less than 125% of Executive's Base Salary as expected to be in effect at the end of such fiscal year. The actual amount payable to Executive as an annual bonus under the Annual Plan shall be dependent upon the achievement of performance objectives established in accordance with the Annual Plan by the committee of the Board of Directors of Company responsible for administering such Annual Plan (the ""), which shall be substantially the same as the objectives established under the Annual Plan for other executive officers of the Company. The preceding sentence shall not limit any power or discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company or the Compensation Committee in the administration of the Annual Plan. Accordingly, depending on performance, the actual amount payable as an annual bonus to Executive under the Annual Plan may be less than, greater than or equal to the target bonus specified above. Any bonus payable pursuant to this Paragraph 3(b) shall be paid at the same time as annual bonuses are payable to other executive officers of the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Annual Plan, subject to Executive's continued employment with the Company through the date on which such bonuses are paid (except that, with respect to any annual bonus payable to Executive for the fiscal year ending on or about September 30, 2012,
Annual Incentive Bonus
Annual Plan
Compensation Committee
 
Executive need only be employed through the end of such fiscal year, and any such annual bonus will be paid no later than March 15, 2013).
(c) . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Executive shall be entitled to participate in any stock option, performance share, performance unit or other equity based long-term incentive compensation plan, program or arrangement generally made available to senior executive officers of the Company, on substantially the same terms and conditions as generally apply to such other officers, except that the size of the awards made to Executive shall reflect Executive's position with the Company and the Compensation Committee's evaluation of Executive's performance and competitive compensation practices.
Eligibility for Equity Awards
4. .
Benefits, Perquisites and Expenses
(a) . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be eligible to participate in () each welfare benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company and made available generally to the Company's executive officers, including, without limitation, each such group life, hospitalization, medical, dental, health, accident or disability insurance or similar plan or program, and () each pension, profit sharing, retirement, deferred compensation or savings plan sponsored or maintained by the Company for the Company's executive officers, in each case, whether now existing or established hereafter, in accordance with the generally applicable provisions thereof (excluding, however, Disney's Family Income Assurance Plan).
Benefits
i
ii
(b) . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to receive such perquisites as are generally provided to other executive officers of the Company in accordance with the then current policies and practices of the Company.
Perquisites
(c) . The Company shall pay or reimburse Executive for all reasonable expenses incurred or paid by Executive during the Employment Period in the performance of Executive's duties hereunder, upon presentation of expense statements or vouchers and such other information as the Company may require and in accordance with the generally applicable policies and procedures of the Company.
Business Expenses
(d) . The Company shall provide Executive with an indemnification agreement substantially equivalent to its form for such agreement as currently provided to its senior officers generally, which shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
Indemnification
 
5.
Termination of Employment.
(a) . Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, the Employment Period shall end upon the earliest to occur of () Executive's death, () a Termination due to Disability, () a Termination for Cause, () the Termination Date specified in connection with any exercise by the Company of its Termination Right or () a Termination for Good Reason. If the Employment Period terminates as of a date specified under this Paragraph 5, Executive agrees that, upon written request from the Company, he shall resign from any and all positions he holds with the Company and any of its subsidiaries and affiliates, effective immediately following receipt of such request from the Company (or at such later date as the Company may specify).
Early Termination of the Employment Period
i
ii
iii
iv
v
(b) .
Benefits Payable Upon Termination
(i) In the event of Executive's death during the Employment Period or a Termination due to Disability, Executive or his beneficiaries or legal representatives shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements, including, but not limited to, any such Unconditional Entitlements that are or become payable under any Company plan, policy, practice or program or any contract or agreement with the Company by reason of Executive's death or Termination due to Disability.
(ii) In the event of Executive's Termination for Cause, Executive shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements.
(iii) In the event of a Termination for Good Reason or the exercise by the Company of its Termination Right, Executive shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements and the Company shall provide Executive the Conditional Benefits, subject to () Executive's execution of the Release, () Executive having not revoked such Release within the seven-day revocation period permitted following delivery of such Release and () Executive's execution of the Consulting Agreement. For Executive to become entitled to the Conditional Benefits, Executive must deliver both the executed Release and the executed Consulting Agreement to the Company by no later than twenty-two (22) days following the Termination Date.
A
B
C
(c) . For purposes of this Agreement, the "" to which Executive may become entitled under Paragraph 5(b) are as follows:
Unconditional Entitlements
Unconditional Entitlements
(i) . The Earned Compensation shall be paid within 30 days following the termination of Executive's employment hereunder, or if any part thereof constitutes a bonus which is subject to or
Earned Amounts
 
conditioned upon any performance conditions, within thirty (30) days following the determination that such conditions have been met, in no event shall the bonus be paid later than 90 days following his termination of employment.
provided
that
(ii) . All benefits payable to Executive under any employee benefit plans (including, without limitation any pension plans or 401(k) plans) of the Company or any of its affiliates applicable to Executive at the time of termination of Executive's employment with the Company and all amounts and benefits (other than the Conditional Benefits) which are vested or which Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under the terms of or in accordance with any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract or agreement with, the Company, at or subsequent to the date of his termination without regard to the performance by Executive of further services or the resolution of a contingency, shall be paid or provided in accordance with and subject to the terms and provisions of such plans, it being understood that all such benefits shall be determined on the basis of the actual date of termination of Executive's employment with the Company. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, Executive shall not be entitled to any benefits under any severance plan or policy of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Benefits
(iii) . Any right which Executive may have to claim a defense and/or indemnity for liabilities to or claims asserted by third parties in connection with Executive's activities as an officer, director or employee of the Company or any of its affiliates pursuant to the terms of the Indemnification Agreement referenced in Paragraph 4(d) shall be unaffected by Executive's termination of employment and shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms.
Indemnities
(iv) . Executive shall be entitled to such continuation of health care coverage as is required under, and in accordance with, applicable law or otherwise provided in accordance with the Company's policies. Executive shall be notified in writing of his rights to continue such coverage after the termination of his employment pursuant to this Paragraph 5(c)(iv), provided that Executive timely complies with the conditions to continue such coverage. Executive understands and acknowledges that Executive is responsible to make for all payments required for any such continued health care coverage that Executive may choose to receive.
Medical Coverage
 
(v) . Executive shall be entitled to reimbursement, in accordance with the Company's policies regarding expense reimbursement as in effect from time to time, for all business expenses incurred by him prior to the termination of his employment.
Business Expenses
(vi) . Except to the extent additional rights are provided upon Executive's qualifying to receive the Conditional Benefits, Executive's rights with respect to any stock options and/or restricted stock units granted to him by the Company shall be governed by the terms and provisions of the plans (including plan rules) and award agreements pursuant to which such stock options and restricted stock units were awarded, as in effect at the date Executive's employment terminates.
Stock Options/RSUs
(d) . For purposes of this Agreement, the "" to which Executive may become entitled, provided he complies with the terms and conditions hereof (including the applicable agreements attached hereto), are as follows:
Conditional Benefits
Conditional Benefits
(i) . As specified in further detail in paragraph 2 of the Consulting Agreement, the Company shall pay Executive a lump sum amount equal to the Consulting Amount as compensation for his consulting services under the Consulting Agreement. If the Scheduled Expiration Date is later than the end of the Consulting Agreement Period, the Company shall also pay Executive the Severance Amount. The Consulting Amount and the Severance Amount shall be paid on the date that is six months and one day after the Termination Date (or upon Executive's death, if earlier).
Remaining Salary
(ii) . All of Executive's Continuing Unvested Options shall become exercisable in accordance with the applicable Original Stock Option Award Documents, on the same basis as such options would have become vested and exercisable if Executive had remained employed under this Agreement through the Scheduled Expiration Date. Once exercisable, all Continuing Unvested Options shall remain exercisable until the Stock Option Termination Date. All of Executive's Remaining Stock Options that were vested and exercisable at the Termination Date shall remain exercisable until the Stock Option Termination Date. Notwithstanding any other term or provision hereof, any of Executive's stock options which are not vested at the Termination Date, and which are not Continuing Unvested Options, shall automatically terminate upon the Termination Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all of the Remaining Stock Options shall continue to be subject to the Original Stock Option Award Documents. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of Executive's death prior to the Scheduled
Stock Options
 
Expiration Date, all Continuing Unvested Options shall vest on the date of Executive's death and all Remaining Stock Options shall be exercisable for the period following Executive's death determined under such Original Stock Option Award Documents on the same basis as though Executive was employed on the date of his death and regardless of when the Stock Option Termination Date occurs. However, any provisions in the Original Stock Option Award Documents relating to disability or change in control of the Company after the Termination Date shall not be operative with respect to any Remaining Stock Options.
(iii) . The Remaining Stock Units shall continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the Original RSU Award Documents, regardless of Executive's termination of employment. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all such Remaining Stock Units shall be subject to, and administered in accordance with, the Original RSU Award Documents. Any of Executive's restricted stock unit awards that have not become vested on or before the Termination Date, and that are outstanding at the Termination Date, but which are not Remaining Stock Units, shall automatically terminate on the Termination Date. Notwithstanding any term or provision of the Original RSU Award Documents:
RSUs
(A) any provisions in such Original RSU Award Documents relating to disability shall not be applicable to any such Remaining Stock Units after the Termination Date;
(B) for so long as this Agreement shall be in effect (that is, regardless of whether the Termination Right has been exercised or a Termination for Good Reason shall have occurred), any terms in any of the Original RSU Award Documents relating to a change in control of the Company shall not be operative unless the event that constitutes a change in control of the Company also constitutes a "change in control event" with respect to the Company within the meaning of Section 409A;
(C) in the event of Executive's death after the Termination Date but prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, the terms and provisions of the Original RSU Award Documents shall be interpreted and applied in the same manner with respect to such Remaining Stock Units as if Executive were an active employee on the date of his death; and
(D) to the extent that, under the Company's compensation practices and policies, any tranche of Remaining Stock Units is subject to the achievement of performance
 
conditions which were imposed solely because Executive was an executive officer of the Company who could have been a covered employee within the meaning of Section 162(m) at the time payment in respect of such award was expected to be made (the "Applicable 162(m) Criteria") and such Applicable 162(m) Criteria relate, in whole or in part, to any performance period continuing after the end of the Company's fiscal year in which the Termination Date occurs, such Applicable 162(m) Criteria shall be waived as of the Termination Date with respect to such tranche of the Remaining Stock Units; provided, however, that this Paragraph 5(d)(iii)(D) shall not be applicable if and to the extent, in the reasonable opinion of tax counsel to the Company, the presence of such provision would cause any stock units intended to be qualified as other performance based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code to fail to be so qualified at any time prior to Executive's Termination Date.
(iv) . The Company shall pay Executive a pro rata annual bonus for the year in which the Termination Date occurs, determined on the basis of an assumed full-year target bonus determined pursuant to Section 3(b) and the number of days in the applicable fiscal year occurring on or before the Termination Date. Such pro-rata current year bonus shall be paid no later than the later of () two and a half months after the end of Executive's tax year in which the Termination Date occurs and () two and a half months after the end of the Company's tax year in which the Termination Date occurs.
Pro-Rated Current Year Bonus
i
ii
(v) . The following additional rules shall apply with respect to distribution of the payments and benefits, if any, to be provided to Executive under Paragraph 5(d)(i), (iii) and (iv):
Additional Distribution Rules in Respect of Conditional Benefits
(A) It is intended that each installment of the payments and benefits provided under Paragraphs 5(d)(i), (iii) and (iv) shall be treated as a separate "payment" for purposes of Section 409A. Neither the Company nor Executive shall have the right to accelerate or defer the delivery of any such payments or benefits except to the extent specifically permitted or required by Section 409A;
(B) Distribution in respect of any tranche of Remaining Stock Units to which Paragraph 5(b)(iii)(D) applies shall be made within 90 days following the later of the date that () the service conditions that had originally been specified for such tranche of
i
 
Remaining Stock Units under the applicable Original RSU Award Documents would otherwise have been satisfied (had Executive continued to be employed) and () the last performance measurement period applicable in respect of such tranche of Remaining Stock Units under the applicable Original RSU Award Documents would otherwise have expired;
ii
(C) Each installment of the payments and benefits due under Paragraph 5(d)(i) and (iii) that would, absent this subsection, be paid within the six-month period following Executive's "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and as provided in Paragraph 5(g) hereof) from the Company shall not be paid until the date that is six months and one day after such separation from service (or, if earlier, Executive's death), with any such installments that are required to be delayed being accumulated during the six-month period and paid in a lump sum on the date that is six months and one day following Executive's separation from service; provided, however, that the preceding provisions of this sentence shall not apply to any installment of payments and benefits if and to the maximum extent that that such installment is deemed to be paid under a separation pay plan that does not provide for a deferral of compensation by reason of the application of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) (relating to separation pay upon an involuntary separation from service). (Any installments that qualify for the exception under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) must be paid no later than the last day of Executive's second taxable year following the taxable year of Executive's in which the separation from service occurs.) Any subsequent installments that would be payable more than six months following Executive's separation from service shall be paid in accordance with the dates and terms set forth herein.
(e) . For purposes of this Paragraph 5, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below:
Definitions
"" means the consulting agreement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Consulting Agreement
" means the period established under the Consulting Agreement during which Executive shall be required to provide consulting services to the Company.
Consulting Agreement Period"
 
means a lump sum amount equal to the aggregate Base Salary which would have been earned by Executive had his employment under this Agreement continued after the Termination Date and through the earlier to occur of () the end of the Consulting Agreement Period or () any earlier date that the Consulting Agreement terminates for any reason whatsoever.
"Consulting Amount"
i
ii
means any of Executive's stock options that were not vested and exercisable at the Termination Date, but that would have become vested and exercisable on or prior to the Latest Stock Option Vesting Date had Executive continued to be employed by the Company through the Scheduled Expiration Date.
"
Continuing Unvested Options
"
"" means the sum of () any Base Salary earned, but unpaid, for services rendered to the Company on or prior to the date on which the Employment Period ends pursuant to Paragraph 5(a) (but excluding any salary and interest accrued thereon payment of which has been deferred) and () if Executive's employment terminates due to Executive's death or in a Termination due to Disability or a Termination for Good Reason or due to the Company's exercise of its Termination Right, in any case, after the end of a fiscal year, but before the annual incentive compensation payable for services rendered in that prior fiscal year has been paid, the annual incentive compensation that would have been payable to Executive for such completed fiscal year in accordance with Paragraph 3(b).
Earned Compensation
a
b
means the date which is three months after the Scheduled Expiration Date.
"
Latest Stock Option Vesting Date
"
" means, with respect to any Remaining Stock Option, the terms and provisions of the award agreement and plan pursuant to which such Remaining Stock Option was granted, each as in effect on the Termination Date.
"Original Stock Option Award Documents
means, with respect to any tranche of Remaining Stock Units, the terms and provisions of the award agreement related to and the plan governing, such tranche of Remaining Stock Units, each as in effect on the Termination Date.
"
Original RSU Award Documents
"
means the General Release in the form set forth in Exhibit B attached hereto.
"
Release
"
" means any of Executive's stock options which are () vested at the Termination Date or () Continuing Unvested Options.
"Remaining Stock Options
i
ii
 
"" means any of Executive's restricted stock units (whether or not subject to performance conditions) that, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions, would have become vested on or prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date had Executive continued to be employed by the Company through the Scheduled Expiration Date
Remaining Stock Units
.
"" means the last day of the fiscal year ending on or about September 30, 2012.
Scheduled Expiration Date
"" means an amount equal to the aggregate Base Salary which would have been earned by Executive under this Agreement (including any scheduled increase therein) for the period commencing on the day after termination of the Consulting Agreement Period and ending on the Scheduled Expiration Date; if the Company terminates the Consulting Agreement due to Executive's material breach of the terms thereof, the Severance Amount shall be reduced to zero.
Severance Amount
provided
that
"" means with respect to any Remaining Stock Option the earlier to occur of () the date which is three months after the Scheduled Expiration Date and () the expiration of the stated term of such award.
Stock Option Termination Date
i
ii
"" means a termination of Executive's employment by the Company due to () gross negligence, () gross misconduct, () willful nonfeasance or () willful material breach of this Agreement, which termination may be effected (A) immediately upon notice from the Company if the Company shall reasonably and in good faith determine that the conduct or cause specified in such notice is not curable (it being understood that such notice shall describe in reasonable detail the conduct or cause giving rise to such notice and shall state the reason(s) why the Company has determined that such conduct or cause is not curable); or (B) upon twenty business days notice from the Company, if the Company shall reasonably and in good faith determine that the conduct or cause specified in such notice is curable (it being understood that such notice shall describe in reasonable detail the conduct or cause giving rise to such notice and shall state the reason(s) why the Company has determined that such conduct or cause is curable and what steps the Company believes should or could be taken to cure such conduct or cause); provided that the Company shall not be entitled to terminate Executive's employment for Cause, if Executive has, within five business days after the date notice in accordance with subclause (B) has been given personally to Executive or otherwise has been received by Executive, commenced in good faith to
Termination for Cause
i
ii
iii
iv
 
cure the conduct or cause specified in such notice and completes such cure within 20 business days following the date such notice was received.
"" means the earlier to occur of () the date the Company specifies in writing to Executive in connection with the exercise of its Termination Right or () the date Executive specifies in writing to the Company in connection with any notice to effect a Termination for Good Reason.
Termination Date
i
ii
"" means a termination of Executive's employment by the Company because Executive has been incapable, after reasonable accommodation, of substantially fulfilling the positions, duties, responsibilities and obligations set forth in this Agreement because of physical, mental or emotional incapacity resulting from injury, sickness or disease for a period of () six consecutive months or () an aggregate of nine months (whether or not consecutive) in any twelve month period. Any question as to the existence, extent or potentiality of Executive's disability shall be determined by a qualified physician selected by the Company with the consent of Executive, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Executive or his legal representatives or any adult member of his immediate family shall have the right to present to such physician such information and arguments as to Executive's disability as he, she or they deem appropriate, including the opinion of Executive's personal physician.
Termination due to Disability
i
ii
"" means a termination of Executive's employment by Executive within 30 days of the Company's failure to cure, in accordance with the procedures set forth below, any of the following events: () a reduction in any of Executive's compensation rights hereunder (that is, Base Salary and target bonus opportunity specified in Paragraph 3(b)), it being understood that the failure of Executive to receive an actual bonus for any fiscal year equal to or greater than the target bonus opportunity for such year is not a reduction in such compensation rights, but a failure to pay Base Salary in accordance with the terms hereof would be a reduction in such compensation rights; () the removal of him by the Company from the position of ; () a material reduction in Executive's duties and responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to such reduction; () the assignment to Executive of duties that are materially inconsistent with his position or duties or that materially impair Executive's ability to function as , and any other position in which he is then serving; () the relocation of Executive's principal office to a
Termination for Good Reason
i
ii
Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, and Technology
iii
v
Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, and Technology
vi
 
location that is more than 50 miles outside of the greater Los Angeles area; or () a material breach of any material provision of this Agreement by the Company. In addition, following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in the Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "")), any occurrence that would constitute a Triggering Event for purposes of Section 11 of the 2005 Stock Plan and the Amended and Restated 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (together with the 2005 Stock Plan, the ""), as such Plans may be amended from time to time, shall also constitute an event upon which Executive may effect a Termination for Good Reason in accordance with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a termination shall not be treated as a Termination for Good Reason () if Executive shall have consented in writing to the occurrence of the specific event giving rise to the claim of Termination for Good Reason, or () unless Executive shall have delivered a written notice to the Company within three months of his having actual knowledge of the occurrence of one of such events stating that he intends to terminate his employment for Good Reason and specifying the factual basis for such termination, and such event, if capable of being cured, shall not have been cured within 30 days of the receipt of such notice.
vii
2005 Stock Plan
Plans
A
B
"" means the right of the Company, in its sole, absolute and unfettered discretion, to terminate Executive's employment under this Agreement for any reason or no reason whatsoever. For the avoidance of doubt, any Termination for Cause effected by the Company shall not constitute the exercise of its Termination Right.
Termination Right
(f) . As permitted under the terms of the applicable Plans, the Company and Executive agree that the definitions of Termination for Cause or Termination for Good Reason set forth in this Paragraph 5 shall apply in place of any similar definition or comparable concept applicable under either of the Plans (or any similar definition in any successor plan), except that, in connection with a "Triggering Event" as defined in the Plans, as such Plans may be amended from time to time, the terms of the applicable plan (and not the definitions of Termination for Cause or Termination for Good Reason set forth in this Paragraph 5) shall apply to determine Executive's rights and entitlements in respect of the awards made under any such plan (and only in respect of such awards).
Conflict With Plans
(g) . To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the requirements of Section 409A, and this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent. Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, any payment required to be made to Executive hereunder upon his termination of employment (including any
Section 409A
 
payment pursuant to this Paragraph 5) shall be made promptly after the six month anniversary of Executive's date of termination to the extent necessary to avoid imposition on Executive of any tax penalty imposed under Section 409A of the Code. Solely for purposes of determining the time and form of payments due Executive under this Agreement (including any payments due under Paragraph 3(a)) or otherwise in connection with his termination of employment with the Company, Executive shall not be deemed to have incurred a termination of employment unless and until he shall incur a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. The parties agree, as permitted in accordance with the final regulations thereunder, a "separation from service" shall occur when Executive and the Company reasonably anticipate that Executive's level of bona fide services for the Company (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) will permanently decrease to no more than 40 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed by Executive for the Company over the immediately preceding 36 months. The determination of whether and when a separation from service has occurred shall be made in accordance with this subparagraph and in a manner consistent with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). To the extent that the Company and Executive determine that any provision of this Agreement could reasonably be expected to result in Executive's being subject to the payment of interest or additional tax under Section 409A, the Company and Executive agree, to the extent reasonably possible as determined in good faith, to amend this Agreement, retroactively, if necessary, in order to avoid the imposition of any such interest or additional tax under Section 409A. All reimbursements and in-kind benefits provided under the Agreement shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A to the extent that such reimbursements or in-kind benefits are subject to Section 409A, including, where applicable, the requirements that (i) any reimbursement is for expenses incurred during Executive's lifetime (or during a shorter period of time specified in this Agreement), (ii) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during a calendar year may not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year, (iii) the reimbursement of an eligible expense will be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the year in which the expense is incurred and (iv) the right to reimbursement is not subject to set off or liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.
(h) . The parties acknowledge and agree that to the extent that this Paragraph 5 affects any of the terms and conditions of Executive's Remaining Stock Options or Remaining Stock Units, this Agreement shall constitute an amendment of the Original Stock Option Award Documents and Original RSU Award Documents as they pertain to Executive.
Amendment of Existing Agreements
 
6. . Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment or other engagement of his services. Executive acknowledges and agrees that the payments and rights provided under Paragraph 5 are fair and reasonable, and are Executive's sole and exclusive remedy, in lieu of all other remedies at law or in equity, for termination of his employment by the Company upon exercise of its Termination Right pursuant to this Agreement or upon a Termination for Good Reason. The failure of Executive to execute and timely deliver the Release and/or the Consulting Agreement for any reason () shall limit his rights in connection with the exercise by the Company of its Termination Right solely to the right to receive the Unconditional Entitlements, () shall not effect a modification of any of his commitments set forth in this Agreement (none of which are contingent upon execution of the Release by him) and () shall not preserve or revive any rights waived by Executive hereunder. Subject to Executive's execution and delivery of the Release without revocation thereof and execution and delivery of the Consulting Agreement, (i) the Company agrees to enter into the Release and Consulting Agreement and (ii) there shall be no offset available to the Company against any amounts due, paid or payable to him in respect of the Conditional Benefits under Paragraph 5 with respect to any compensation, remuneration or payment attributable to any services that Executive may provide to any third party subsequent to termination of employment hereunder, whether as an employee or otherwise.
Exclusive Remedy
i
ii
iii
7. .
Non-competition and Confidentiality
(a) . During the Employment Period, Executive shall not become associated with any entity, whether as a principal, partner, employee, consultant or shareholder (other than as a holder of not in excess of 1% of the outstanding voting shares of any publicly traded company), that is actively engaged in any geographic area in any business which is in competition with a business conducted by the Company at the time of the alleged competition.
Non-competition
(b) . Without the prior written consent of the Company, except () as reasonably necessary in the course of carrying out his duties hereunder or () to the extent required by an order of a court having competent jurisdiction or under subpoena from an appropriate government agency, Executive shall not disclose any trade secrets, customer lists, drawings, designs, information regarding product development, existing theatrical projects, marketing plans, sales plans, manufacturing plans, management organization information (including data and other information relating to members of the Company's Board of Directors and management of the Company and/or any of its related entities), operating policies or manuals, business plans, financial records or other financial, commercial, business or technical information relating to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or information designated as confidential or proprietary that the Company or any of its subsidiaries may receive belonging to suppliers, customers or others who do business with the Company or any of its subsidiaries (collectively, "") unless such Confidential
Confidentiality
i
ii
Confidential Information
 
Information has been previously disclosed to the public by the Company or has otherwise become available to the public (other than by reason of Executive's breach of this Paragraph 7(b)). In addition, Executive acknowledges and agrees that he has executed or will be required to execute, the standard form of agreement, entitled "The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Confidentiality Agreement," a copy of which has been previously provided to Executive.
(c) . Promptly following Executive's termination of employment, Executive shall return to the Company all property of the Company, and all copies thereof in Executive's possession or under his control, except that Executive may retain his personal notes, diaries, Rolodexes, calendars and correspondence of a personal nature.
Company Property
(d) . During the Employment Period and, subject to the provisions of applicable law, during the two-year period following any termination of Executive's employment, Executive shall not, except in the course of carrying out his duties hereunder, directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries to terminate employment with such entity, and shall not directly or indirectly, either individually or as owner, agent, employee, consultant or otherwise, knowingly employ or offer employment to any person who is or was employed by the Company or a subsidiary thereof unless such person shall have ceased to be employed by such entity for a period of at least six (6) months.
Non-Solicitation of Employees
(e) . Executive acknowledges and agrees that the covenants and obligations of Executive with respect to noncompetition, nonsolicitation, confidentiality and the Company property relate to special, unique and extraordinary matters and that a violation of any of the terms of such covenants and obligations may cause the Company irreparable injury for which adequate remedies are not available at law. Therefore, Executive agrees that the Company shall be entitled to obtain an injunction, restraining order or such other equitable relief restraining Executive from committing any violation of the covenants and obligations contained in this Paragraph 8. These injunctive remedies are cumulative and are in addition to any other rights and remedies the Company may have at law or in equity.
Injunctive Relief with Respect to Covenants
8. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . Paragraphs 5 (relating to early termination of the Employment Period), 7 (relating to nondisclosure and nonsolicitation of employees), and 8(o) (relating to governing law) shall survive the termination hereof, whether such termination shall be by expiration of the Employment Period in accordance with Paragraph 1 or an early termination of the Employment Period pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof.
Survival
 
(b) . This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and any person or entity that succeeds to the interest of the Company (regardless of whether such succession does or does not occur by operation of law) by reason of a merger, consolidation or reorganization involving the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. The Company further agrees that, in the event of a sale of assets as described in the preceding sentence, it shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such assignee or transferee to expressly assume the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company hereunder. This Agreement shall also inure to the benefit of Executive's heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives and beneficiaries as provided in Paragraph 8(d).
Binding Effect
(c) . Except as provided under Paragraph 8(b), neither this Agreement nor any of the rights or obligations hereunder shall be assigned or delegated by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party.
Assignment
(d) . Executive shall be entitled, to the extent permitted under any applicable law and the terms of any applicable plan, to select and change a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or benefit payable hereunder following Executive's death by giving the Company written notice thereof. In the event of Executive's death or a judicial determination of his incompetence, reference in this Agreement to Executive shall be deemed, where appropriate, to refer to his beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.
Beneficiaries/References
(e) . This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters referred to herein; provided that this Agreement shall not alter, amend, or supercede the Indemnification Agreement referenced in Paragraph 4(d). There are no promises, representations, inducements or statements between the parties other than those that are expressly contained herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit, modify or supersede The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Confidentiality Agreement executed by Executive, which shall survive regardless of the termination of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
(f) . Executive represents that his employment hereunder and compliance by him with the terms and conditions of this Agreement will not conflict with or result in the breach of any agreement to which he is a party or by which he may be bound. The Company represents that () it is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. () it has the full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, and () the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized.
Representations
i
ii
iii
 
(g) . For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the Board of Directors of Company or the Compensation Committee from its ability to exercise any power or authority to take such actions as it is required or permitted to take as a matter of law or pursuant to the terms of the Company's governing documents. Nothing in this Paragraph 8(g) shall be construed to modify, amend, limit or otherwise impair the rights and entitlements of Executive set forth in the other Paragraphs of this Agreement (including, without limitation, the rights and entitlements specified in Paragraph 5).
Authority of the Disney Board
(h) . In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected thereby. In the event any of subparagraphs (a), (b) or (d) of Paragraph 7 hereof is not enforceable in accordance with its terms, Executive and the Company agree that such subparagraph of such Paragraph 7 shall be reformed to make such subparagraph enforceable in a manner which provides the Company the maximum rights permitted at law.
Severability; Reformation
(i) . Waiver by any party hereto of any breach or default by the other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be implied from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by either party hereto to assert its or his rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.
Waiver
(j) . Any notice required or desired to be delivered under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally, by courier service, by registered mail, return receipt requested, or by telecopy and shall be effective upon actual receipt when delivered or sent by telecopy and upon mailing when sent by registered mail, and shall be addressed as follows (or to such other address as the party entitled to notice shall hereafter designate in accordance with the terms hereof):
Notices
If to the Company:
The Walt Disney Company
500 South Buena Vista Street
Burbank, California 91521
Attention: General Counsel
Telecopy Number: 818 569-5146
 
If to Executive:
To the address listed as Executive's principal residence in the Company's human resources records and to his principal place of employment with the Company.
(k) . No amendment to this Agreement shall be binding between the parties unless it is in writing and signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought.
Amendments
(l) . Headings to paragraphs in this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only and are not intended to be part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation hereof.
Headings
(m) . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
(n) . Any payments provided for herein shall be reduced by any amounts required to be withheld by the Company from time to time under applicable federal, state or local income or employment tax laws or similar statutes or other provisions of law then in effect.
Withholding
(o) . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without reference to principles of conflicts or choice of law under which the law of any other jurisdiction would apply.
Governing Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and Executive has hereunto set his hand as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
(hereinafter referred to as "") is made and entered into by and between Kevin A. Mayer (hereinafter referred to as "") and The Walt Disney Company (hereinafter referred to as "") on and as of , 20 pursuant to that certain Employment Agreement by and between Executive and Company dated , 2008 (the ""). All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Employment Agreement.
THIS CONSULTING AGREEMENT
Agreement
Consultant
Company
                    
    
                    
Employment Agreement
1. (a) Unless this Agreement is earlier terminated as hereinafter provided, for a period following the termination of Consultant's employment under the Employment Agreement equal to the lesser of 6 months or the remaining period of the Term of the Employment Agreement (the ""), Consultant shall personally and diligently provide to the Company such consulting services as the Company may reasonably request from time to time, provided that such services shall relate to matters appropriate for the former of the Company and shall be a type and nature and duration typical for a post-employment consulting agreement with the former of the Company. Consultant shall not be required to report to the Company's offices and shall be permitted, subject to the terms hereof, to provide consulting services to third parties during the term hereof, provided (i) in no event shall consulting services or other services or advice of any nature be provided by Consultant, directly or indirectly (whether as an employee, consultant, independent contractor, agent, partner, principal, owner or otherwise) to any person or entity which directly or indirectly owns, operates, manages, develops, controls or provides services to, any business involved in any of the following activities: (A) the conception, creation, development, production, purchase, sale, distribution, broadcast, transmission or other disposition (including, without limitation, the licensing and/or merchandising of related consumer products) of audio and/or visual and/or interactive products or works of any nature in any media, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any activity relating to () any aspect of the film, network, cable, broadcasting, mobile communications, television (including pay-per-view, closed circuit or any inter-active form of distribution of film, television or other audio/visual product) or internet businesses or any other businesses based on or using interactive technology (including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, electronic and/or interactive games, environments, information centers or communities, in each case, of any nature), or () the development, production, marketing or distribution by any vehicle whatsoever of any film, television or software product or any similar content or product in any media, whether or not now existing, () the operation, management, development, licensing and promotion of themed resorts, hotels and restaurants or amusement or themed entertainment parks; or () the design, development, publishing, promotion or sale of products based on cartoon or other animated characters, films, television and theatrical productions and other intellectual property derived
Consulting Agreement Period
Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, and Technology
Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, and Technology
i
ii
B
C
 
therefrom, in each case, only to the extent that such person or entity is actively engaged in any geographic area in any business which is in competition with a business conducted by the Company or one of its subsidiaries at the time of the performance of such services (the ""), and (ii) that any services required by Company shall at all times be provided with precedence being given to Company and on a "first priority" basis to Company, although Company shall endeavor to provide, when possible, reasonable notice to Consultant of all services required hereunder and to give due consideration, to the extent practicable, to any prior commitments Consultant may have at such time. In no event shall Consultant be required to devote more than 13.5 hours per week to services to Company hereunder, and the parties agree and understand that Consultant's expected commitment to such services shall regularly be less than the stated maximum weekly hours.
Specified Activities
(b) In the event of a material uncured breach by Consultant of any term or provision of this paragraph 1 hereof, all of which terms and conditions Consultant acknowledges and agrees are of the essence of this Agreement, or any other term or provision hereof, Company shall have the right, in addition to any other right of remedy available to it at law or in equity, to terminate this Agreement. In such event Company shall have no further obligation to make payments or perform or honor any commitments under the Release or to pay or honor any commitments which relate to or constitute any of the Conditional Benefits; , , that notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specifically provided in the immediately preceding sentence, no breach of this Agreement by Consultant, no termination of this Agreement by Company, and no other action or inaction by either of them (other than the execution by the parties of a written agreement amending or superseding the Release or any part thereof) shall in any event or under any circumstances have any effect whatsoever on the validity, enforceability, binding nature, effect or interpretation of the release set forth in paragraph 7 of the Release, and the release set forth therein shall remain in full force and effect.
provided
however
(c) In the event that Consultant shall receive a notice of breach of this Agreement from the Company, Consultant shall have ten (10) business days to cure such breach unless the Company shall have determined in its good faith business judgment that such breach is not curable. Any notice of termination pursuant to this paragraph 2 shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for such breach and shall contain a statement as to whether or not such breach has been determined to be curable by the Company. In the event that he receives a notice of breach of the Agreement from the Company, Executive may challenge such finding of a breach, by written notice to the Company, and shall be afforded an opportunity to present his objection to the Company, in person or in writing, as determined by the Company, prior to Company having any right to terminate this Agreement and the Conditional Benefits provided under the Employment Agreement.
2. Consultant shall receive gross consulting fees for his services hereunder which, for any period during the Consulting Agreement Period, shall equal the amount of gross salary Consultant would have earned had he remained as an employee of the Company under the Employment Agreement for such period. The consulting fee payments shall be made at the date set forth in Paragraph 5(d)(i) of the Employment Agreement.
 
3. Company shall reimburse Consultant, in accordance with the procedures of Company then in effect for its employees, for reasonable business expenses incurred by Consultant in the course of performing the services hereunder.
4. Company, its successors, privies and assigns shall be entitled to, and shall, own as their exclusive property all of the results and proceeds of the services (which results and proceeds are hereafter collectively referred to as the "") in whatever stage of completion, all of which shall be considered a work-for-hire, including, without limitation, all written work, research, plot outlines, computer programs, plans, drawings, paintings, sculptures, fanciful creations, specifications, ideas, scripts, sketches, designs, concepts, software, systems, reports, documentation, and other tangible or intangible work product produced. Company shall own all rights in the Work Product in perpetuity throughout the universe including, without limitation, the rights to produce, manufacture, record, reproduce, distribute, transfer or prepare derivative works from the Work Product by any art, medium or method and all copyrights, trademarks and/or patents in the Work Product. Company shall be deemed the sole author of the Work Product and is entitled to the copyright therein (and all renewals and extensions thereof), and the full ownership to the original and all copies of the Work Product. Company shall have the right to dispose of the Work Product and/or make any or all uses thereof as it, at any time and in the exercise of its sole discretion, may desire. Consultant shall deliver all originals and copies of the Work Product (whether completed or in process) and all research, plans, designs, specifications and any other work product or information which pertains to the Work Product to Company upon completion of the Services hereunder or upon earlier termination of this Agreement. Consultant shall not retain, use or disclose any of the Work Product without Company's prior written consent. The termination, completion or breach of this Agreement on whatever grounds and by whomsoever affected shall not affect Company's exclusive ownership of the Work Product. Consultant hereby assigns to Company all now known or hereafter existing rights of every kind throughout the universe, in perpetuity and in all languages, pertaining to the Work Product, including, without limitation, all exclusive exploitation rights, of every kind and nature, including, but not limited to, all trademarks, copyrights and neighboring rights, to the full extent such assignment is allowed by law, and any renewals and extensions therefor throughout the universe, in perpetuity, or for the duration of the rights in each country, and in all languages. Consultant acknowledges that new rights to the Work Product may come into being or be recognized in the future, under the law or in equity (the ""), and Consultant intends to and does hereby grant and convey to Company any and all such New Exploitation Rights to the Work Product. Consultant is also aware and acknowledges that new or changed technology, uses, media, format, modes of transmission and methods of distribution, dissemination, exhibition or performance (the "") are being and will inevitably continue to be developed in the future, which would offer new opportunities for exploiting the Work Product. Consultant intends to and does hereby grant and convey to Company any and all rights to such New Exploitation Methods with respect to the Work Product. Consultant agrees to execute, at any time upon Company's request, such further
Work Product
New Exploitation Rights
New Exploitation Methods
 
documents and do such other acts as may be required to evidence or confirm Company's exclusive ownership of and exploitation rights to the Work Product and to effectuate Consultant's purpose to convey such rights to Company including, but not limited to, the New Exploitation Rights and any and all of the New Exploitation Methods. Consultant agrees that it will not seek to (i) challenge, through the courts, administrative governmental bodies, private organizations or in any other manner, the rights of Company to exploit the Work Product by any means whatsoever or (ii) thwart, hinder or subvert the intent of the preceding grants and conveyances to Company, or the collection by Company of any proceeds relating to the rights conveyed under this Agreement. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Agreement.
5. This Agreement is for the personal services of Consultant and may not be subcontracted or assigned by Consultant in any fashion, whether by operation of law, or by conveyance of any type, without the prior written consent of Company, which consent Company may withhold in its sole discretion. Company may not assign all or any portion of this Agreement at any time to any of its affiliates or to any other person.
6. (a) Consultant, by virtue of this Agreement, shall acquire no right to use, and shall not use, the name "Disney" or "ABC" or "American Broadcasting Companies" or "ESPN" or any other word, mark, or name used for, or in connection with, the business activities of Company (either alone or in conjunction with or as a part of any other word, mark, or name) or any marks, fanciful characters or designs of the Company or any of their related, affiliated, or subsidiary companies in any advertising, publicity, or promotion; to express or imply any endorsement by Company or any of their related, affiliated or subsidiary companies of Consultant's services; or in any other manner whatsoever (whether or not similar to the uses hereinabove specifically prohibited). Consistent with his obligations under Paragraph 7, this Paragraph 6(a) shall not prevent Executive from using such names to describe his activities with respect to Company and its subsidiaries under and prior to the Employment Agreement and under this Agreement.
(b) Consultant hereby represents and warrants to Company that as of the date of this Agreement, Consultant does not provide any services (including, without limitation, as an employee) to any person or entity that (i) is engaged in, or whose affiliated entities are engaged in, one or more of the Specified Activities or (ii) advises or provides consulting services to any person or entity that is engaged in, or whose affiliated entities are engaged in, any business or activity relating to or constituting one or more of the Specified Activities. Consultant further represents and warrants to Company that he shall make written disclosure to Company prior to providing any services, during the term of this Agreement, to any of the above mentioned persons or entities.
7. Consultant may, during the course of Consultant's engagement hereunder, have access to, and acquire knowledge of or from, materials, data, strategies, systems or other information relating to the services hereunder or Company, or its parent, related,
 
affiliated or subsidiary companies, which may not be accessible or known to the general public (including, but not limited to, the existence of this Agreement and the terms hereof and any Work Product not readily available to the general public) (""). Any such knowledge acquired by Consultant shall be kept confidential and shall not be used, published, or divulged by Consultant to any other person, firm, or corporation, or in any advertising or promotion regarding Consultant or Consultant's services, or in any other manner or connection whatsoever without first having obtained the prior written permission of Company, which permission Company may withhold in its sole discretion; provided that Consultant shall have no greater duty or obligation in respect of such Confidential Information than applies to Executive under Paragraph 7(b) the Employment Agreement. Upon Company's request, Consultant shall immediately return to Company or destroy, all documents, magnetic copies, or other physical evidence of all Confidential Information in Consultant's possession or in the possession of any of Consultant's directors, officers, employees, agents or representatives (including, without limitation, all copies, transcriptions, notes, extracts, analyses, compilations, studies, or other documents, records, or data prepared by Consultant) which contain or otherwise reflect or are generated from the Confidential Information without retaining any copy thereof, all of the foregoing being Confidential Information and the sole property of Company, Consultant shall certify to Company that all of the foregoing has been returned or destroyed as provided in this paragraph. Consultant agrees that Company would be irreparably harmed by any violation or threatened violation of this paragraph and that, therefore, Company shall be entitled to an injunction prohibiting Consultant from any violation or threatened violation of this paragraph. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Agreement.
Confidential Information
8. This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to conflicts of laws principles.
9. The terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Release and Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Employment Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersede all previous communications, representations, or agreements, either oral or written, between the parties relating to such subject matter hereof. No change, alteration or modification of this Agreement shall be effective unless made in writing and signed by both parties hereto.
, the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
EXHIBIT B
WHEREAS, Kevin A. Mayer (hereinafter referred to as "Executive") and The Walt Disney Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Company") are parties to an Employment Agreement, dated , 2008, (the "Employment Agreement"), which provided for Executive's employment with the Company on the terms and conditions specified therein; and
                        
WHEREAS, pursuant to paragraph 6 of the Employment Agreement, Executive and the Company have agreed to execute mutual releases of the type and nature set forth in this Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual promises herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration received in accordance with the terms of the Employment Agreement, it is agreed as follows:
1. (a) Upon the later of (i) the execution hereof by the Company and Executive, (ii) the passage of seven days following execution hereof by Executive without Executive's having exercised the revocation rights referred to in paragraph 12 hereof and (iii) the time specified in the Employment Agreement for payment of a particular item of compensation, the Company shall (x) provide Executive the amounts and benefits described in Paragraph 5 of the Employment Agreement and (y) make full payment for vacation and floating holidays accrued but unused as of the date hereof, less amounts required to be withheld by law or authorized by Executive to be withheld (it being understood that from and after the date hereof no further rights to vacation or floating holidays or compensation therefor shall accrue or be payable to Executive). Such payment shall be made by check payable to Executive.
(b) The covenants and commitments of the Company referred to herein (including, specifically, but without limitation, any and all benefits conferred upon Executive pursuant to Paragraph 5 of the Employment Agreement) shall be in lieu of and in full and final discharge of any and all obligations to Executive for compensation, severance payments, or any other expectations of payment, remuneration, continued coverage of any nature or benefit on the part of Executive arising out of or in connection with Executive's employment with the Company, or under any agreement, arrangement, commitment, plan, program, practice or policy of the Company, or otherwise, other than as expressly provided in the Employment Agreement.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other term or provision hereof, Executive shall be entitled to such rights as are vested in Executive as of the Termination Date, or as are expressly provided in the Employment Agreement, under and subject to the terms of (i) the Employment Agreement, (ii) any applicable retirement plan(s) to which Executive may be subject, (iii) any applicable stock option plan or other incentive compensation plan of the Company to which Executive may be subject, (iv) any right which Executive now has or may hereafter have to claim a defense and/or indemnity for liabilities to third parties in connection with his activities as an employee of the Company or any of its affiliates pursuant to the terms of any applicable statute, under any insurance policy, pursuant to the certificate of incorporation or bylaws or established policies of the Company or any affiliate thereof or pursuant to written agreement (including, without limitation, the Indemnification Agreement) expressly providing for such indemnity between Executive and the Company or any affiliate thereof, and (v) any other applicable employee welfare benefit plans to which Executive may be subject. Further,
 
Executive shall be entitled to such continuation of health care coverage as is required under, and subject to, applicable law, of which Executive shall be notified in writing after the Termination Date, provided Executive timely exercises Executive's rights in accordance therewith. Executive understands and acknowledges that all payments for any such continued health care coverage he may elect will be paid by him, except to the extent the Employment Agreement provides that such payments shall be made by the Company.
2. Executive confirms that, on or prior to seven (7) days from the date hereof, Executive shall turn over to the Company all files, memoranda, records, credit cards and other documents and physical or personal property that Executive received from the Company or that Executive generated in connection with his employment by the Company or that are the property of the Company.
3. It is the desire and intent of the parties hereto that the provisions of this Agreement be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under law. Should there be any conflict between any provision hereof and any present or future law, such law will prevail, but the provisions affected thereby will be curtailed and limited only to the extent necessary to bring them within the requirements of law, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect and be fully valid and enforceable.
4. Executive represents and agrees (a) that Executive has to the extent he desires discussed all aspects of this Agreement with his attorney, (b) that Executive has carefully read and fully understands all of the provisions of this Agreement, and (c) that Executive is voluntarily entering into this Agreement.
5. Excluding enforcement of the covenants, promises and/or rights reserved herein, Executive hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases, acquits and forever discharges the Company and each of the Company's owners, stockholders, predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives, attorneys, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates (and agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives and attorneys of such companies, divisions, subsidiaries and affiliates) and all persons acting by, through, under or in concert with any of them (collectively "Releasees"), or any of them, from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs actually incurred) of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, including, but not limited to, rights arising out of alleged violations of any contracts, express or implied, any covenant of good faith and fair dealing, express or implied, or any tort or any legal restrictions on the Company's right to terminate employees, or any Federal, state or other governmental statute, regulation or ordinance, including, without limitation, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Federal Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended, and the California Fair Employment and Housing Act that Executive now has, or has ever had, or ever will have, against each or any of the Releasees, by reason of any and all acts, omissions, events, circumstances or facts existing or occurring up through the date of Executive's execution hereof that directly or indirectly arise out of, relate to, or are connected with, Executive's services to, or employment by the Company (any of the foregoing being an "Executive Claim" or, collectively, the "Executive Claims").
 
6. Executive expressly waives and relinquishes all rights and benefits afforded by California Civil Code Section 1542 and does so understanding and acknowledging the significance of such specific waiver of Section 1542. Section 1542 states as follows:
"A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."
Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the purpose of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of the Releasees, Executive expressly acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to include in its effect, without limitation, all Executive Claims that Executive does not know or suspect to exist in Executive's favor at the time of execution hereof, and that this Agreement contemplates the extinguishment of any such Executive Claim or Executive Claims.
7. Excluding enforcement of the covenants, promises and/or rights reserved herein or in the Employment Agreement, and except as otherwise provided in the at the end of this sentence, the Company, hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases, acquits and discharges Executive, and Executive's heirs, assigns and successors in interest ("Executive Releasees") from any and all charges, complaints, claims, liabilities, obligations, promises, agreements, controversies, damages, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, demands, costs, losses, debts and expenses (including attorney's fees and costs actually incurred), of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, including, but not limited to, rights arising out of alleged violations of any contracts, express or implied, any covenant of good faith and fair dealing, express or implied, or any tort, that the Company now has, or has ever had, or ever will have, against Executive and/or the Executive Releasees, by reason of any and all acts, omissions, events, circumstances or facts existing or occurring up through the date of the Company's execution hereof, that directly or indirectly arise out of, relate to, or are connected with, Executive's services to, or employment by the Company (hereinafter referred to as a "Claim" or collectively, the "Claims"); , , that, notwithstanding any other term or provision hereof, any Claim or Claims rising out of, or resulting from, in part or whole, (i) any illegal or fraudulent act(s) or illegal or fraudulent omission(s) to act of Executive, (ii) any action(s) or omission(s) to act which would constitute self-dealing or a breach of Executive's confidentiality obligations to the Company or any affiliate thereof, or a breach of The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Confidentiality Agreement executed by Executive, or (iii) the policy of the Board of Directors of the Company, as the same may be in effect from time to time, regarding the ability of the Company to recoup bonus or incentive payments as a result of the Company being required to restate its financial results due to material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements under the securities laws are hereby expressly excluded in their entirety from the foregoing release, acquittal and discharge and are unaffected thereby (any Claim or Claims not so excluded pursuant to this being hereinafter referred to as a the "Company Claim" or, collectively, as the "Company Claims").
proviso
provided
however
,
proviso
8. Except as expressly reserved herein, the Company expressly waives and relinquishes all rights and benefits afforded by California Civil Code Section 1542 and does so understanding
 
and acknowledging the significance of such specific waiver of Section 1542. Section 1542 states as follows:
"A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."
Thus, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1542, and for the purpose of implementing a full and complete release, acquittal and discharge of the Executive Releasees with respect to the Company Claims only, the Company expressly acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to include in its effect, without limitation, all the Company Claims that the Company does not know or suspect to exist in the Company's favor at the time of execution hereof, and that this Agreement contemplates the extinguishment of any such Company Claims. Notwithstanding anything in this Release to the contrary, if at any time (whether during or after the Employment Period) the Company is required to restate its financial results due to material noncompliance with financial reporting requirements under the securities laws, nothing in this Release shall be construed to limit the rights of the Company and the Board to seek or obtain recovery from Executive of any incentive compensation (including profits realized from the sale of Company securities) previously paid, or the cancellation of any outstanding awards, in accordance with the terms of the Company's policy, as in effect from time to time, regarding the ability of the Company to recoup any bonus or incentive payments under such circumstances.
9. Executive understands that Executive has been given a period of 21 days to review and consider this Agreement before signing it pursuant to the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended. Executive further understands that Executive may use as much of this 21-day period as Executive wishes prior to signing.
10. Executive acknowledges and represents that he understands that he may revoke the waiver of his rights under the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended, effectuated in this Agreement within 7 days of signing this Agreement. Revocation can be made by delivering a written notice of revocation to General Counsel, The Walt Disney Company, 500 South Buena Vista Street, Burbank, California 91521. For this revocation to be effective, written notice must be received by the General Counsel no later than the close of business on the seventh day after Executive signs this Agreement. If Executive revokes the waiver of his rights under the Age Discrimination In Employment Act of 1967, as amended, the Company shall have no obligations to Executive hereunder, and this Agreement and the Employment Agreement shall have no further force and effect.
11. Executive and the Company respectively represent and acknowledge that in executing this Agreement neither of them is relying upon, and has not relied upon, any representation or statement not set forth herein made by any of the agents, representatives or attorneys of the Releasees or of the Executive Releasees with regard to the subject matter, basis or effect of this Agreement or otherwise.
 
12. This Agreement shall not in any way be construed as an admission by any of the Company Releasees or Executive Releasees, respectively, that any of the Company Releasee or Executive Releasee has acted wrongfully or that the Company or Executive has any rights whatsoever against any of the Company Releasees or Executive Releasees except as specifically set forth herein, and each of the Company Releasees and Executive Releasees specifically disclaims any liability to any party for any wrongful acts.
13. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California. This Agreement is binding on the successors and assigns of, and sets forth the entire agreement between, the parties hereto; fully supersedes any and all prior agreements or understandings between the parties hereto pertaining to the subject matter hereof; and may not be changed except by explicit written agreement to that effect subscribed by the parties hereto.
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. THIS SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE INCLUDES A RELEASE OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
 
 


