FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20080506160732.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 6, 2008, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended March 29, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 6, 2008

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May 6, 2008
 
 
 
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the second fiscal quarter and six months ended March 29, 2008. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter increased to $0.58, compared to $0.44 in the prior-year quarter. Earnings per share from continuing operations in the prior-year quarter totaled $0.43.
For the six-month period, diluted EPS was $1.21. EPS for the prior-year six-month period, which included gains on sales of our interests in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly, income from the discontinued operations of the ABC Radio business, and an equity-based compensation plan modification charge, which were all recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, were $1.24. Excluding these items, EPS for the six-month period increased 30% to $1.21 from $0.93 in the prior-year six months.
"We had an outstanding quarter financially and creatively at The Walt Disney Company," said Robert A. Iger, president and chief executive officer. "This performance demonstrates how gives us a critical and sustainable market advantage. That difference centers on our proven ability to create high-quality content across our wide-ranging distribution and promotional platforms, allowing us to leverage our hits and grow our company."
The Disney Difference
 
The following table summarizes the second quarter and six-month results for fiscal 2008 and 2007 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the second quarter and six-month segment operating results for fiscal 2008 and 2007 (in millions):
 
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 5% to $3.6 billion and segment operating income increased 14% to $1.3 billion. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased 14% to $1.1 billion for the quarter primarily due to growth at ESPN and, to a lesser extent, higher income from our cable equity investments. The growth at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate revenue primarily due to contractual rate increases and subscriber growth, and advertising revenues driven by higher rates, partially offset by higher programming, administrative and marketing costs. Higher programming costs were driven by increased rights costs arising from college basketball contract renewals. Growth from our cable equity investments was primarily due to higher affiliate and advertising revenue at Lifetime and A&E.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased 17% to $223 million for the quarter primarily due to the strong performance of ABC Studios productions in international markets, led by and . This growth was partially offset by the impact of the Writer's Guild of America strike which limited the airing of original scripted programming in primetime on the ABC Television Network resulting in lower ratings and advertising revenues. The negative impact of the strike on advertising revenue was partially offset by higher advertising rates and lower programming costs due to the reduction in hours of original scripted programming.
Grey's Anatomy
Lost
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 11% to $2.7 billion and segment operating income increased 33% to $339 million. Operating income growth was due to improved results in our domestic businesses and at Disneyland Resort Paris, both of which were favorably impacted by the shift of the Easter holiday from the third quarter in fiscal 2007 to the second quarter in fiscal 2008.
 
Domestic Resorts
Operating income growth at the domestic businesses was primarily due to increased guest spending and theme park attendance at the Walt Disney World Resort and higher revenues at Disney Vacation Club, partially offset by higher operating costs at the Walt Disney World Resort. Increased guest spending was due to higher average daily hotel room rates, higher average ticket prices and increased food and beverage spending. Higher attendance was primarily driven by the benefit of the shift of the Easter holiday. The increase in operating costs was driven by labor cost inflation, new guest offerings and volume-related expenses. The benefit from higher revenues at Disney Vacation Club reflected extensions of the term of ownership on certain existing vacation home properties and higher rentals of vacation club units.
International Resorts
Operating income growth at Disneyland Resort Paris was primarily due to increased attendance and higher guest spending, partially offset by higher operating costs. Increased guest spending was driven by higher average daily hotel room rates. Higher operating costs were driven by volume-related expenses and labor cost inflation.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter increased 18% to $1.8 billion and segment operating income increased 61% to $377 million. Segment operating income growth was primarily due to increases in domestic home entertainment and worldwide theatrical distribution.
The growth in domestic home entertainment was driven by higher unit sales reflecting the performance of current quarter titles, which included and as compared to Platinum Release, and in the prior-year quarter.
Enchanted, Game Plan
No Country for Old Men
Peter Pan
The Guardian
The Prestige
The increase in worldwide theatrical distribution was driven by lower distribution expenses due to significant marketing costs in the prior-year quarter for which was released at the end of March 2007, and the domestic performance of current quarter titles led by the continued success of and the release of . In international markets, the improvement was primarily due to the strong performance of and .
Meet the Robinsons,
National Treasure 2: Book of Secrets
Hannah Montana/Miley Cyrus: Best of Both Worlds
Enchanted
National Treasure 2: Book of Secrets
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 10% to $551 million and segment operating income decreased 14% to $107 million. Lower segment operating income for the quarter was primarily due to lower recognition of minimum guarantee revenues at Merchandise Licensing and decreased revenue from licensed product at Disney Interactive Studios reflecting our continuing transition towards self-published titles. These decreases were partially offset by
 
higher earned royalties at Merchandise Licensing and higher sales of self-published titles at Disney Interactive Studios. Higher earned royalties were driven by sales of and merchandise and increased sales at Disney Interactive Studios reflected the performance of and in the current quarter compared to and in the prior-year quarter.
Hannah Montana
High School Musical
Turok
High School Musical
Meet the Robinsons
Spectrobes
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
Corporate and unallocated shared expenses decreased from $130 million to $98 million for the quarter driven by an increase in the allocation of costs to the business segments and the timing of expenses in various corporate departments.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
The increase in interest expense for the quarter was primarily due to higher average debt balances.
Minority Interests
Minority interest expense increased from $3 million to $50 million for the quarter due to the impacts of decreased losses at Hong Kong Disneyland and Disneyland Resort Paris and increased profits at ESPN. The minority interest is determined on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.
 
Cash Flow
Cash provided by continuing operations and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Cash provided by operations increased by $567 million to $3.3 billion primarily due to higher segment operating income and the timing of payments for accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by the timing of accounts receivable collections and higher investments in Disney Vacation Club properties.
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Depreciation expense by segment was as follows (in millions):
 
Share Repurchases
During the first six months of fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased 61 million shares for $2.0 billion, of which 30 million shares were purchased for $0.9 billion in the second quarter. As of March 29, 2008, the Company had authorization in place to repurchase approximately 262 million additional shares, of which the Company has repurchased 13 million shares for $418 million subsequent to quarter-end through May 5, 2008.
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $3,930 million and $3,583 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of March 29, 2008 and September 29, 2007, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $594 million and $604 million as of March 29, 2008 and September 29, 2007, respectively.
 
In April 2008, the Company completed the redemption of its $1.3 billion of 2.125% convertible senior notes due 2023 (the Notes). Substantially all of the Notes were converted into common stock based on the conversion ratio of 33.9443 for each $1,000 of principal, resulting in the issuance of 45 million shares of the Company's common stock.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period, including significant dispositions and acquisitions. In the prior-year six months, these items included gains on sales of equity investments in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly, income from the discontinued ABC Radio business and a charge related to a modification of equity-based compensation plans in connection with the ABC Radio transaction. The Company believes that information about earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of the excluded items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate separately the impact of decisions regarding the sale and acquisition of interests in businesses from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items:
Earnings per share excluding certain items
 
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by continuing operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
 
A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, May 6, 2008, at 4:30 PM EST/1:30 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through May 20, 2008 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2007 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and subsequent reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


