FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20080205161013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 5, 2008, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended December 29, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
99.1 Press release of February 5, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 5, 2008

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 5, 2008
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for its first fiscal quarter ended December 29, 2007. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter were $0.63. EPS in the prior-year quarter, which included gains on sales of our interests in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly, income from the discontinued operations of the ABC Radio business, and an equity-based compensation plan modification charge, were $0.79. Excluding these items, EPS increased 29% to $0.63 from $0.49 in the prior-year quarter.
"We've started off 2008 with another outstanding quarter, marked by strong creative and operational performances," said Robert A. Iger, president and chief executive officer. "These results once again highlight the quality of our content and our unique ability to leverage it across our many businesses and territories."
The following table summarizes the first quarter results for fiscal 2008 and 2007 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes first quarter segment operating results for fiscal 2008 and 2007 (in millions).
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 10% to $4.2 billion and segment operating income increased 28% to $908 million. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $125 million to $586 million for the quarter driven by increases at ABC Family Channel and the domestic Disney Channels. Growth at ABC Family Channel was due to the absence of programming costs for Major League Baseball and higher affiliate and advertising revenue, both of which were driven by higher rates. The growth at the domestic Disney Channels
 
was primarily due to strong DVD sales of and higher affiliate revenue due to contractual rate increases and subscriber growth.
High School Musical 2
At ESPN, both advertising and affiliate revenues grew, offset by higher programming and production costs. Increased advertising revenue and programming and production costs reflected the addition of NASCAR programming. The increase in affiliate revenue was due to higher contractual rates and subscriber growth, partially offset by $53 million of incremental programming covenant revenue deferrals. Total revenue deferrals for the quarter were $234 million, which are expected to be recognized in the second half of the fiscal year.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $75 million to $322 million for the quarter primarily due to higher primetime advertising revenue at the ABC Television Network, partially offset by higher primetime programming costs. Increased primetime advertising revenues were due to higher advertising rates and sold inventory, partially offset by the impact of lower ratings.
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 11% to $2.8 billion and segment operating income increased 25% to $505 million. Operating income growth was driven by increases at Walt Disney World and Disneyland Resort Paris, and improved performance at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort.
Domestic Resorts
Operating income growth at Walt Disney World was primarily due to increased guest spending, attendance, vacation club ownership sales and hotel occupancy, partially offset by higher operating costs. Increased guest spending was due to higher average ticket prices and increased food, beverage and merchandise spending. Higher operating costs were driven by volume-related costs, labor cost inflation and new guest offerings.
International Resorts
Operating income growth at Disneyland Resort Paris was primarily due to increased attendance, guest spending, hotel occupancy and real estate sales. Increased guest spending was driven by higher average daily room rates and increased food and beverage spending. At Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, improved performance reflected increased attendance.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment segment operating income for the quarter decreased 15% to $514 million while revenues were essentially flat at $2.6 billion. Lower segment operating income was primarily due to a decrease in domestic home entertainment partially offset by increases in worldwide theatrical distribution and music distribution.
 
At domestic home entertainment, despite the strong performance in the current quarter of , andPlatinum Release, results were down due to lower unit sales compared to the prior-year quarter, which included andPlatinum Release.
Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
Ratatouille
Jungle Book
Cars, Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
Little Mermaid
The improvement in worldwide theatrical distribution was primarily due to the strong domestic performance of current quarter titles, including , and , and the performance internationally of in the current quarter as well as lower film cost write-downs. The growth in music distribution was driven by the concert tour and CDs.
Game Plan
National Treasure: Book of Secrets
Enchanted
Ratatouille
Hannah Montana
High School Musical
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 29% to $870 million and segment operating income increased 38% to $322 million. Segment operating income growth was primarily due to increases at Merchandise Licensing and Disney Interactive Studios.
Growth at Merchandise Licensing was driven by higher earned royalties across multiple product categories, led by the strong performance of and merchandise. The growth at Disney Interactive Studios was primarily due to the success of new self-published titles based on and in the current quarter, partially offset by higher video game development costs.
Hannah Montana
High School Musical
High School Musical
Hannah Montana
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
The increase in interest expense for the quarter was primarily due to higher average debt balances.
Interest and investment income for the quarter increased due to a gain related to the sale of an investment and a recovery in connection with the Company's leveraged lease investment with Delta Air Lines which had been written off previously.
 
Minority Interests
Minority interest expense increased from $5 million to $24 million for the quarter due to the impact of improved performance at Disneyland Resort Paris. The minority interest impact is determined on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.
Cash Flow
Cash provided by continuing operations and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Cash provided by continuing operations increased by $170 million to $662 million primarily due to higher segment operating income and the timing of payments for accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by the timing of accounts receivable collections.
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Depreciation expense by segment was as follows (in millions):
 
Share Repurchases
During the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased 31 million shares for $1.0 billion. As of December 29, 2007, the Company had authorization in place to repurchase approximately 292 million additional shares, of which the Company has repurchased 14 million shares for $434 million subsequent to quarter-end through February 1, 2008.
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $3,689 million and $3,583 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of December 29, 2007 and September 29, 2007, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $480 million and $604 million as of December 29, 2007 and September 29, 2007, respectively.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period, including significant dispositions and acquisitions. In the prior-year quarter, these items included gains on sales of equity investments in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly, income from the discontinued ABC Radio business and a charge related to modification of equity-based compensation plans in connection with the ABC Radio transaction. The Company believes that information about earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of the excluded items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate separately the impact of decisions regarding the sale and acquisition of interests in businesses from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items:
Earnings per share excluding certain items
 
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash
Net borrowings
 
and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by continuing operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, February 5, 2008, at 4:30 PM EST/1:30 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through February 19, 2008 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2007 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and subsequent reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


