FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20080730161220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
      On July 30, 2008, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended June 28, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
      (c) Exhibits
            99.1 Press release of July 30, 2008
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated:  July 30, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
July 30, 2008
    BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the third fiscal quarter and nine months ended June 28, 2008. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter increased to $0.66, compared to $0.57 in the prior-year quarter. EPS for the current quarter included an accounting gain related to the acquisition of the Disney Stores in North America, a gain on the sale of movies.com, and the favorable resolution of certain prior-year income tax matters. Collectively, these items totaled $0.04 per share.
    For the current nine-month period, diluted EPS was $1.87. EPS for the prior-year nine-month period, which included gains on sales of our interests in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly, income from the discontinued operations of the ABC Radio business, and an equity-based compensation plan modification charge, which were all recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, was $1.81. Excluding these items and the current-year items discussed above, EPS for the current-year nine months was $1.83 compared to $1.50 in the prior-year nine months.
    "We've had another solid quarter at The Walt Disney Company, further illustrating our creative momentum, the competitive strength of our brands and our ability to cohesively manage a great collection of assets to maximize shareholder value," said Robert A. Iger, president and chief executive officer.
 
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-month results for fiscal 2008 and 2007 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-month segment operating results for fiscal 2008 and 2007 (in millions):
 
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 8% to $4.1 billion and segment operating income increased 9% to $1.5 billion. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased 14% to $1.2 billion for the quarter primarily due to growth at ESPN and, to a lesser extent, higher income from our cable equity investments and an increase at the international Disney Channels. The growth at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate and advertising revenue, partially offset by higher programming and production, administrative and marketing costs. The increase in affiliate revenue was primarily due to contractual rate increases, subscriber growth, and increased recognition of previously deferred revenue related to annual programming commitments. Higher programming and production costs reflected increased sports rights costs for various sporting events and included production costs for additional NBA games. During the quarter, ESPN recognized $78 million of previously deferred revenues compared to $49 million in the prior-year quarter. Remaining deferred revenues of $396 million as of the end of the current quarter are expected to be recognized in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year compared to $359 million recognized in the fourth quarter of the prior year. Higher income from our cable equity investments was primarily due to the recognition of previously deferred revenues in connection with finalizing certain affiliate contracts at ESPN's Star Sports joint venture in Asia and higher advertising revenues at Lifetime. Increased operating income at the international Disney Channels reflected higher affiliate revenues due to subscriber growth.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting decreased 11% to $260 million for the quarter primarily due to higher production cost amortization related to programs in syndication and lower advertising sales at the owned television stations, partially offset by lower costs for new scripted programming for the ABC Television Network. These decreased costs were the result of lower expenses for pilots as pick up decisions were delayed in the current year primarily due to the Writers Guild of America work stoppage.
 
Revenues at the ABC Television Network were comparable to the prior year as the impact of lower ratings was offset by higher advertising rates and digital media revenues.
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 5% to $3.0 billion and segment operating income increased 3% to $641 million. Revenue growth was primarily due to an increase at Disneyland Resort Paris driven by favorable currency translation and higher guest spending and attendance.
Operating income growth was driven by increases at Walt Disney World Resort and Disneyland Resort Paris, partially offset by a decrease at Disneyland Resort. Operating results at the theme parks reflected decreased attendance due to the timing of the Easter holiday, which fell in the third quarter in fiscal 2007 and in the second quarter in fiscal 2008.
Domestic Resorts
Operating results at both Walt Disney World Resort and Disneyland Resort reflected decreased attendance due to the shift of the Easter holiday. This was more than offset by higher corporate alliance income and increased guest spending at Walt Disney World Resort driven by higher average ticket prices.
International Resorts
Operating income growth at Disneyland Resort Paris was primarily due to higher guest spending, increased attendance and the favorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by higher operating costs. Increased guest spending was due to higher average ticket prices. Higher operating costs were driven by labor cost inflation and increased marketing, partially offset by a favorable claim settlement.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter decreased from $1.8 billion to $1.4 billion and segment operating income decreased from $190 million to $97 million.
Lower segment operating income was primarily due to a decrease in worldwide theatrical distribution reflecting the strong performance of in the prior-year quarter compared to in the current quarter.
Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased from $537 million to $642 million and segment operating income decreased from $118 million to $113 million. The acquisition of the Disney Stores in North America drove a significant portion of the revenue increase for the quarter.
 
Lower segment operating income for the quarter was driven by a decrease at Disney Interactive Studios which was largely offset by an increase in earned revenue at Merchandise Licensing driven by the success of and merchandise. The decrease at Disney Interactive Studios was due to lower sales of self-published video games due to the strong performance in the prior-year quarter of games based on compared to and in the current quarter and higher video game development costs.
Hannah Montana
High School Musical
Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian
High School Musical
The increase in revenues due to the acquisition of the Disney Stores in North America was offset by the related operating costs and the absence of licensing revenue from the former licensee.
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
Corporate and unallocated shared expenses increased from $115 million to $127 million for the quarter primarily due to timing of expenses in various corporate departments and higher investments in new business initiatives, partially offset by an increase in the allocation of costs to the business segments.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
The decrease in interest expense for the quarter was primarily due to lower effective interest rates.
The decrease in interest and investment income for the quarter reflected a $13 million investment impairment.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the quarter decreased to 34.1% from 37.6% in the prior-year quarter driven by the favorable resolution of certain prior-year income tax matters which reduced the effective income tax rate in the current-year quarter by approximately 3.0 percentage points.
 
Minority Interests
Minority interest expense increased from $69 million to $91 million for the quarter due to the impacts of improved performance at Disneyland Resort Paris and ESPN. The minority interest is determined on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.
Cash Flow
Cash provided by continuing operations and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Cash provided by operations increased by $376 million primarily due to higher segment operating income, lower pension contributions and the timing of payments for other accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by the timing of accounts receivable collections and higher investments in Disney Vacation Club properties.
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Depreciation expense from continuing operations by segment was as follows (in millions):
 
Share Repurchases
During the first nine months of fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased 93 million shares for approximately $3.0 billion, of which 32 million shares were purchased for $1.0 billion in the third quarter. As of June 28, 2008, the Company had authorization in place to repurchase approximately 230 million additional shares, of which the Company has repurchased 21 million shares for $645 million subsequent to quarter-end through July 25, 2008.
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $3,888 million and $3,583 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of June 28, 2008 and September 29, 2007, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $554 million and $604 million as of June 28, 2008 and September 29, 2007, respectively.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period, including significant dispositions and acquisitions. During the current nine months, these items included gains related to the acquisition of the Disney Stores in North America and the sale of movies.com and the favorable resolution of certain prior-year income tax matters. In the prior-year nine months, these items included gains on sales of equity investments in E! Entertainment and Us Weekly, income from the discontinued ABC Radio business and a charge related to a modification of equity-based compensation plans in connection with the ABC Radio transaction. The Company believes that information about earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of the excluded items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate separately the impact of decisions regarding the sale and acquisition of interests in businesses from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items for the current and prior-year nine-month periods:
Earnings per share excluding certain items
 
 
 
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by continuing operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results. A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
Aggregate segment operating income
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, July 30, 2008, at 4:30 PM EST/1:30 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through August 13, 2008 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
distribute our products.
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2007 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and subsequent reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


