FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20091112161436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 12, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the fiscal year and quarter ended October 3, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 12, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 12, 2009
 
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for the fiscal year and fourth quarter ended October 3, 2009. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the year was $1.76, compared to $2.28 in the prior year. EPS for the current and prior year include certain items that are discussed below. Excluding these items, EPS for the year was $1.82, down 20% from $2.28 in the prior year.
EPS for the current year included a non-cash gain in connection with the merger of Lifetime Entertainment Services (Lifetime) and A&E Television Networks (A&E), a gain on the sale of our investment in two pay television services in Latin America, and restructuring and impairment charges, which collectively had a net adverse impact of $0.06. EPS for the prior year included an accounting gain related to the acquisition of the Disney Stores North America, a gain on the sale of movies.com, the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters, a bad debt charge for a receivable from Lehman Brothers, and an impairment charge, which collectively had no net impact on EPS.
For the quarter, diluted EPS was $0.47 compared to $0.40 in the prior-year quarter. EPS for the current quarter included the gain related to the Lifetime/A&E transaction and restructuring and impairment charges, which together resulted in a net benefit of $0.01, while EPS for the prior-year quarter included the Lehman Brothers bad debt charge and an impairment charge, which together had a net adverse impact of $0.04. Excluding these items, EPS for the quarter increased 5% to $0.46 compared to $0.44 in the prior-year quarter.
"Although last year was a difficult one due in part to the weak global economy, I'm pleased with the way our businesses have responded to the downturn," said President and CEO Robert A. Iger. "We've stayed focused on our long-term strategy, efficiently managed costs, and continued to invest in initiatives to deliver future growth. We also have adapted our organization to respond to and take advantage of the changes taking place in our businesses and will continue to do so as we position Disney to thrive for years to come."
 
Fiscal 2009 results for the full year and fourth quarter include the benefit from one additional week of operations compared to the prior-year periods due to our fiscal period end. The following table summarizes the full year and fourth quarter results for fiscal 2009 and 2008 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the full year and fourth quarter segment operating results for fiscal 2009 and 2008 (in millions):
 
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the year increased 2% to $16.2 billion and segment operating income decreased 4% to $4.8 billion. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $121 million to $4.3 billion for the year due to growth at ESPN and at ABC Family, partially offset by the impact associated with the transition of Jetix to Disney-branded channels. The growth at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate revenue primarily due to contractual rate increases and, to a lesser extent, the impact of the additional week of operations and subscriber growth, partially offset by decreased advertising revenue and higher programming costs. The decrease in advertising revenues was due to a decrease in units sold, partially offset by higher rates. Higher programming costs reflected contractual rate increases for key rights contracts and the cost of new and renewed rights agreements for college and international sports programming.
Operating income growth at ABC Family reflected higher advertising and affiliate revenue. Increased advertising revenue at ABC Family was primarily due to higher units sold and higher rates while increased affiliate revenue was driven by higher rates. At the worldwide Disney Channels, increased affiliate revenue due to subscriber growth and contractual rate increase was largely offset by lower DVD sales.
For the quarter, operating income at Cable Networks increased 19% to $1.5 billion primarily due to an increase at ESPN and, to a lesser extent, the worldwide Disney Channels. The growth at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate revenue, partially offset by higher programming costs. Higher affiliate revenue reflected increased recognition of previously deferred revenues related to annual programming commitments, the impact of the additional week of operations and contractual rate increases. During the quarter, ESPN recognized $128 million more in net deferred revenues related to programming commitments than in the prior-year quarter. Programming cost increases at ESPN for the quarter reflected similar impacts as discussed above for the year. Growth at the worldwide Disney Channels was driven by higher affiliate revenues due to international subscriber growth, partially offset by lower DVD sales.
 
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting decreased $337 million to $505 million for the year primarily due to lower advertising sales at the ABC Television Network and owned television stations, higher programming and production costs and a bad debt charge related to a syndication customer. These decreases were partially offset by increased international and domestic sales of ABC Studios productions, led by and . Decreased advertising revenues at the ABC Television Network reflected lower primetime ratings. The increase in programming and production costs was driven by higher primetime programming costs due to more hours of original scripted programming and higher production cost amortization related to sales of ABC Studios productions.
Grey's Anatomy, Desperate Housewives
According to Jim
For the quarter, operating results at Broadcasting increased $73 million to $2 million, driven by increased domestic and international sales of ABC Studios productions, led by and , partially offset by an increase in the related production cost amortization.
Grey's Anatomy
According to Jim
At the ABC Television Network, results were comparable to the prior-year quarter as lower pilot costs and the benefit of an additional week of advertising revenues were offset by the impact of lower ratings and advertising rates and higher programming costs for more hours of original scripted programming. Lower pilot costs reflected the timing of pick up decisions, which generally occurred in the third quarter this year compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year due to delays resulting from the Writers Guild of America work stoppage in fiscal 2008.
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the year decreased 7% to $10.7 billion and segment operating income decreased 25% to $1.4 billion. For the quarter, revenues decreased 4% to $2.8 billion and segment operating income decreased 17% to $344 million. Results for the year and quarter reflected decreases at our domestic operations and at Disneyland Paris.
For the year, lower operating income at our domestic operations was driven by decreased guest spending, principally at our domestic parks and resorts, and lower gains on securitized sales of ownership interests at Disney Vacation Club, partially offset by lower costs at Walt Disney World Resort. Decreased guest spending at the domestic parks and resorts was due to lower average ticket prices, lower average daily hotel room rates and decreased merchandise spending. Lower costs at Walt Disney World Resort reflected savings from cost mitigation activities, partially offset by labor and other cost inflation.
The decrease at Disneyland Paris was due to decreased guest spending and lower hotel occupancy, partially offset by lower costs. Decreased guest spending reflected lower average ticket prices, decreased merchandise spending and lower average daily hotel room rates. Lower costs were driven by savings from cost mitigation activities, partially offset by labor and other cost inflation.
For the quarter, lower operating income at our domestic operations reflected decreased guest spending and increased costs, partially offset by higher attendance, which was driven by the benefit of the additional week of operations, and increased revenue recognition at Disney Vacation Club in connection with the completion of vacation club properties. Decreased guest spending was due to lower average ticket prices, decreased merchandise, food and beverage spending and lower average daily hotel room rates. Higher costs reflected the additional week of operations in the current quarter and labor and other cost inflation, partially offset by cost mitigation activities.
 
Lower operating income at Disneyland Paris reflected decreased guest spending due to lower average ticket prices and lower average daily hotel room rates, partially offset by lower costs driven by cost mitigation activities and a favorable claim settlement.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the year decreased 16% to $6.1 billion and segment operating income decreased 84% to $175 million. For the quarter, revenues increased 3% to $1.5 billion and segment operating income decreased $111 million to a loss of $13 million.
Lower operating income for the year was primarily due to decreases in worldwide home entertainment, worldwide theatrical distribution and worldwide television distribution.
The decline in worldwide home entertainment was driven by lower unit sales and net effective pricing, partially offset by lower production cost amortization and marketing costs. Decreased unit sales reflect the overall decline in the DVD market and the strength of in the prior year. Significant other titles included andin the current year while the prior year included and
Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End
WALL-E
The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian
Ratatouille, Enchanted
National Treasure: Book of Secrets.
Lower results in worldwide theatrical distribution were primarily due to a weaker performing slate of titles in the current year and higher film cost write-downs. Successful current year titles included and while the prior year included and . The decrease in worldwide television distribution was driven by fewer significant titles in the current period.
UP
The Proposal
National Treasure: Book of Secrets
WALL-E
Lower operating results for the quarter were primarily due to higher film cost write-downs in domestic theatrical distribution and a decline in music distribution reflecting the strong performance of the and titles in the prior-year quarter.
Jonas Brothers
Miley Cyrus
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the year were essentially flat at $2.4 billion, and segment operating income decreased 22% to $609 million. For the quarter, revenues decreased 12% to $646 million, and segment operating income decreased 28% to $151 million.
Lower operating income for the year and quarter reflected the effect of the difficult global retail environment across our licensing, retail and publishing businesses as well as the strength of and properties in the prior year. Our retail operations reflected the adverse impact of a full year of company-owned operations at the Disney Stores North America in fiscal 2009 whereas the prior year included five months of company-owned operations and seven months of licensed operations.
Hannah Montana
High School Musical
 
Interactive Media
Interactive Media revenues for the year decreased 1% to $712 million and segment operating results decreased 14% to a loss of $295 million. For the quarter, revenues increased 8% to $157 million and segment operating results improved 5% to a loss of $114 million.
Lower operating results for the year were due to a decrease at Disney Interactive Studios, partially offset by an increase at Disney Online. Lower results at Disney Interactive Studios were driven by decreased net effective pricing and unit sales of self-published video games, decreased licensing revenue and higher unit cost of sales, which included the cost of bundled accessories and music royalties for current year titles. Significant self-published video games in the current year included and while the prior year included and Improved results at Disney Online reflected lower marketing costs and higher Club Penguin subscription revenues.
High School Musical 3
Sing It
High School Musical, Turok
Pure.
For the quarter, the improved operating results were primarily due to lower marketing and product development costs as well as increased Club Penguin subscription revenue at Disney Online, partially offset by higher cost of sales at Disney Interactive Studios.
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
Corporate and unallocated shared expenses decreased from $460 million to $398 million for the year and from $147 million to $130 million for the quarter. For both the year and quarter, the decrease was driven by savings from cost mitigation activities and an increase in allocation of costs to the business segments.
Restructuring and Impairment Charges
During the fourth quarter, the Company recorded charges totaling $166 million which included impairment charges of $73 million and restructuring costs of $93 million. For the year, the Company recorded charges totaling $492 million which included impairment charges of $279 million and restructuring costs of $213 million. The most significant of the impairment charges was $142 million related to radio FCC licenses, of which $34 million was recorded in the fourth quarter. The restructuring charges included severance and other related costs as a result of various organizational and cost structure initiatives across our businesses. Restructuring and impairment charges for the prior year consisted of an impairment charge of $39 million related to radio FCC licenses which was recorded in the fourth quarter.
 
Other Income (Expense)
Other Income (Expense) was as follows (in millions):
 
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
The decrease in interest expense for the year and quarter was driven by lower effective interest rates.
The decrease in interest and investment income for the year and quarter was driven by lower effective interest rates.
Minority Interests
Minority interest expense was flat at $302 million for the year and increased $42 million to $179 million for the quarter. The increase in minority interest expense for the quarter was primarily due to the impact of increased profits at ESPN. The minority interest is determined on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.
 
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
 
The decrease in free cash flow was driven by lower segment operating results, higher contributions to our pension plans and an increase in capital expenditures, partially offset by lower income tax payments and a decreased net investment in working capital. The increase in capital expenditures reflected spending on the Disney's California Adventure expansion and construction progress payments on two new cruise ships.
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Depreciation expense is as follows (in millions):
 
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $2,868 million and $3,706 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $606 million and $693 million as of October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, respectively.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
 
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Earnings per share excluding certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period. In the current year, these items included a non-cash gain in connection with the merger of Lifetime and A&E, a gain on the sale of our investment in two pay television services in Latin America and restructuring and impairment charges. In the prior year, these items included gains related to the acquisition of the Disney Stores North America and the sale of movies.com, the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters, a bad debt charge for a receivable from Lehman Brothers and an impairment charge. The Company believes that information about earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of the excluded items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate the impact of these items separately from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items:
Earnings per share excluding certain items
 
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings.
Net borrowings
 
Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, November 12, 2009, at 4:30 PM EST/1:30 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through November 26, 2009 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 27, 2008 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and subsequent reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


