FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20100316170204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On March 10, 2010, the shareholders of the Registrant approved amendments to the Registrant's Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan") at the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders. The amendment increased the number of shares authorized under the plan from 136,000,000 to 178,000,000 shares. The 2005 Plan as amended to reflect this amendment is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and the terms thereof are incorporated herein by reference.
 
(a) On March 10, 2010, the shareholders of the Registrant approved amendments to the Registrant's Restated Certificate of Incorporation at the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders and the amendments became effective the following day upon filing of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation as amended with the Delaware Secretary of State. The amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation are described in the proxy statement dated January 22, 2010, for the Registrant's annual meeting in the section entitled "Approval of Amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation," which is incorporated herein by reference. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this report and the terms thereof are incorporated herein by reference.
Immediately following the annual meeting of shareholders, the Board of Directors of the Registrant adopted an amendment to the Bylaws of the Company to conform Article IX, Section 1 of the Bylaws relating to amendment of the Bylaws by shareholder vote to the amended provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation by changing the vote required for amendment of the Bylaws by shareholder vote from a 66
 2
/
3
% of the outstanding capital stock to a majority of the outstanding capital stock. The Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended, are filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this report and the terms thereof are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The final results of voting on each of the matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders on March 10, 2010 are as follows.
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 16, 2010
 

Exhibit 3.1
The name of the Corporation is The Walt Disney Company.
The address of the registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, City of Wilmington 19808, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at that address is Corporation Service Company.
The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may now or hereafter be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as set forth in Title 8 of the Delaware Code, as in effect from time to time (the "DGCL").
1.
Authorization.
The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is , of which shares shall be shares of common stock having a par value of $.01 per share ("Common Stock") and shares shall be shares of preferred stock having a par value of $.01 per share ("Preferred Stock") and issuable in one or more classes or series as hereinafter provided.
4,700,000,000
4,600,000,000
100,000,000
The number of authorized shares of any class or classes of capital stock of the Corporation may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.
2.
Common Stock.
The voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of the Common Stock, and the qualifications and restrictions thereon, shall be as follows in this Section 2.
2.1
Dividends
.
Subject to any preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock and any qualifications or restrictions on the Common Stock created thereby, dividends may be declared and paid upon Common Stock upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine out of the funds of the Corporation legally available therefor.
2.2
Voting Powers.
Except as otherwise provided by law or by the terms of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Corporation, the entire voting power of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be vested in the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, who shall be entitled to vote on any matter on which the holders of stock of the Corporation shall, by law or by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Corporation, be entitled to vote. On each matter to be voted on by the holders of Common Stock each outstanding share of Common Stock shall have one vote.
2.3
Liquidation Rights
.
In the event of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution of the Corporation or the liquidation and winding up of the Corporation, after payment or provision for payment of the debts and other liabilities of the Corporation and the full preferential amounts (including any accumulated and unpaid dividends) to which the holders of Preferred Stock are entitled, unless otherwise provided in respect of a series of Preferred Stock by the resolution of the Board of Directors fixing the liquidation rights and preferences of such series of Preferred Stock, the holders of the outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive the remaining assets of the Corporation on a per share basis. Neither the merger nor consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other company, nor the merger or consolidation of any other company into or with the Corporation, nor a sale, transfer or lease of all or any part of the assets of the Corporation, shall, alone, be deemed a liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, or cause the dissolution of the Corporation, for purposes of this subsection 2.3.
.
3
Preferred Stock.
Shares of the Preferred Stock of the Corporation may be issued from time to time in one or more classes or series, each of which class or series shall have such distinctive designation, number of shares, or title as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors prior to the issuance of any shares thereof. Each such class or series of Preferred Stock shall consist of such number of shares, and have such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall be stated in such resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series of Preferred Stock as may be adopted from time to time by the Board of Directors prior to the issuance of any shares thereof pursuant to the authority hereby expressly vested in it, all in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware. By Certificate of Designations dated November 17, 1999, the Corporation authorized the issuance of Series A Voting Preferred Stock, a copy of which Certificate of Designations is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
.
1
Number of Directors.
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than nine directors or more than twenty-one (21) directors, the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time solely by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.
.
2
Term of Office.
All directors shall be of one class and serve for a term ending at the annual meeting following the annual meeting at which the director was elected. In no case shall a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. Each director shall hold office after the annual meeting at which his or her term is scheduled to end until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, disqualification or removal from office.
.
3
Vacancies.
Any newly created directorship resulting from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, provided that a quorum is present, and any other vacancy on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
.
4
Special Voting Rights of Preferred Stock Holders.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, whenever the holders of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Article IV applicable thereto.
.
5
Selection by Written Ballot.
Elections of directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders shall be by written ballot unless the Bylaws of the Corporation shall otherwise provide.
Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President. Special meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation may not be called by any other person or persons.
1.
Vote Required for Certain Business Combinations.
Except as set forth in subsection 2 of this Article VII, the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote shall be required for:
1.1 any merger or consolidation to which the Corporation, or any of its subsidiaries, and an Interested Person (as hereinafter defined) are parties;
1.2 any sale or other disposition by the Corporation, or any of its subsidiaries, of all or substantially all of its assets to an Interested Person;
1.3 any purchase or other acquisition by the Corporation, or any of its subsidiaries, of all or substantially all of the assets or stock of an Interested Person; and
1.4 any other transaction with an Interested Person which requires the approval of the stockholders of the Corporation under the DGCL.
2.
Exceptions.
The provisions of subsection 1 of this Article VII shall not be applicable to any transaction described therein if (i) such transaction is approved by resolution of the Corporation's Board of Directors, provided that a majority of the members of the Board of Directors voting for the approval of such transaction were duly elected and acting members of the Board of Directors prior to the date that the person, firm or corporation, or any group thereof, with whom such transaction is proposed, became an Interested Person, or (ii) the provision of a vote in excess of that required by the DGCL for such transaction violates the express provisions of the DGCL.
3.
Definition of Interested Person.
As used in this Article VII, the term "Interested Person" shall mean any person, firm or corporation, or any group thereof, acting or intending to act in concert, including any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such person, firm or corporation or group, which owns of record or beneficially, directly or indirectly, five percent (5%) or more of any class of voting securities of the Corporation.
The affirmative vote of the owners of two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding Common Stock of the Corporation entitled to vote shall be required to amend, alter or repeal Article VII.
1.
Indemnification.
The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law (as now or hereinafter in effect) any person made, or threatened to be made, a defendant or witness to any action, suit or proceeding (whether civil or criminal or otherwise) by reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or by reason of the fact that such director or officer, at the request of the Corporation, is or was serving any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, in any capacity. Nothing contained herein shall affect any rights to indemnification to which employees other than directors and officers may be entitled by law. No amendment or repeal of this subsection 1 of this Article IX shall apply to or have any effect on any right to indemnification provided hereunder with respect to any acts or omissions occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
2.
Limitation of Liability.
A director of this Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the DGCL. Any repeal or modification of the foregoing sentence shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing hereunder with respect to any act or omission occurring prior to such repeal or modification.
3.
Insurance; Trust Funds.
In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute:
3.1 the Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of law; and
3.2 the Corporation may create a trust fund, grant a security interest and/or use other means (including, without limitation, letters of credit, surety bonds and/or other similar arrangements), as well as enter into contracts providing indemnification to the full extent authorized or permitted by law and including as part thereof provisions with respect to any or all of the foregoing to ensure the payment of such amounts as may become necessary to effect indemnification as provided therein, or elsewhere.
In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt, repeal, alter, amend or rescind the Bylaws of the Corporation. In addition, the Bylaws of the Corporation may be adopted, repealed, altered, amended or rescinded by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon.
The Corporation reserves the right to repeal, alter, amend or rescind any provision contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred on stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors" or the "Board") by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Restated Certificate of Incorporation") and in accordance with the provisions of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors on July 9, 1999 adopted a resolution providing for the authorization of a series of preferred stock as follows:
RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Board hereby creates a series of preferred stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation and hereby states the designation and number of shares, and fixes the relative rights, preferences and limitations thereof, as follows:
. The designation of the series of the preferred stock shall be "Series A Voting Preferred Stock" and the number of shares constituting the Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall be 237,310. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; , , that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Voting Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
provided
however
.
Dividends
(i) Holders of outstanding shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive cumulative preferential cash dividends, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available therefor, in an amount per annum equal to the product of the "Par Rate" and the Liquidation Preference (as defined below). The "Par Rate," which shall be determined before the closing date (the
 
"Closing Date") of the transactions contemplated by that certain Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of July 10, 1999 (the "Reorganization Agreement"), by and among Infoseek Corporation, the Corporation and Bingo Acquisition Corp., based on the advice of a reputable investment bank selected by the Corporation and shall be a single fixed rate equal to the highest end of the range of dividend rates at which the Series A Voting Preferred Stock would be expected to trade at its Liquidation Preference on or about the Closing Date.
(ii) Dividends shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on or before June 30 and December 31 each year or, if not a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions in New York City are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close (each, a "Business Day"), then the next succeeding Business Day (each, a "Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on first June 30 or December 31 following the Closing Date. The amount of dividends payable on the Series A Voting Preferred Stock for each full semi-annual period from, and including the applicable Divided Payment Date to, but excluding the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date (each, a "Dividend Period"), shall be computed by dividing by two the annual dividend rate set forth in paragraph (i) above. Dividends payable in respect of the period between the date the Corporation first issued shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock (the "Initial Issue Date") and the first Dividend Payment Date thereafter (the "Initial Dividend Period") and any subsequent period between Dividend Payment Dates which is less than a full Dividend Period in length will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends shall be paid to holders of record as their names appear on the stock register of the Corporation at the close of business on the first day of the calendar month in which the applicable Dividend Payment Date falls or on such other date designated by the Board of Directors for the payment of dividends that is not more than 30 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "Record Date"). Dividends in respect of any past Dividend Periods that are in arrears may be authorized and paid at any time to holders of record on the Record Date thereof. Any dividend payment made to holders of Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall be first credited against the earliest accrued but unpaid dividend due which remains payable.
(iii) Dividends shall be fully cumulative and shall accrue (whether or not declared), with additional payments thereon, from the first day of the Dividend Period in which such dividend may be payable as herein provided on all shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock issued and outstanding on the first day of such Dividend Period, except that with respect to the Initial Dividend Period, such dividend shall accrue from the Initial Issue Date.
(iv) All dividends paid with respect to shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (ii) above shall be paid pro rata to the holders entitled thereto.
(v) If at any time the Corporation shall have failed to pay all dividends which have accrued on any outstanding shares of any other class or series of preferred stock having cumulative dividend rights ranking on parity with the shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock at the times such dividends are payable, no cash dividend shall be declared by the Board of Directors or paid or set apart for payment by the Corporation
 
on shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock unless prior to or concurrently with such declaration, payment, or setting apart for payment, all accrued and unpaid dividends on all outstanding shares of such other series of preferred stock shall have been or be declared, paid or set apart for payment with additional payments thereon, if any; , , that in the event such failure to pay accrued dividends is with respect only to the outstanding shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock and any outstanding shares of any other class or series of preferred stock having cumulative dividend rights on parity with the shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock, cash dividends may be declared, paid or set apart for payment, with additional payments thereon, pro rata on shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock and shares of such other class or series of preferred stock so that the amounts of any cash dividends declared, paid or set apart for payment on shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock and shares of such other series of preferred stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that, at the time of such declaration, payment or setting apart for payment, all accrued but unpaid cash dividends on shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock and shares of such other series of preferred stock bear to each other. Any dividend not paid pursuant to paragraph (ii) above or this paragraph (v) shall be fully cumulative and shall accrue (whether or not declared), with additional payments thereon, as set forth in paragraph (iii) above, even if such dividend is not paid pursuant to paragraph (vii) below.
provided
however
(vi) (a) Holders of shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive dividends provided for herein in preference to and in priority over any dividends, other than dividends paid in stock ranking junior to Series A Voting Preferred Stock (the "Junior Stock") upon any of the Junior Stock.
(b) So long as any shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Corporation shall not declare, pay or set apart for payment, any dividend on any of the Junior Stock (other than dividends paid in such Junior Stock) or make any payment on account of, or set apart for payment money for a sinking or other similar fund for, the purchase, redemption or other retirement of, any of the Junior Stock or any warrants, rights, calls or options exercisable for any of the Junior Stock, or make any distribution in respect thereof, either directly or indirectly, and whether in cash, obligations or shares of the capital stock of the Corporation or other property (other than distributions or dividends in stock to the holders of such stock), and shall not permit any corporation or other entity directly or indirectly controlled by the Corporation to purchase or redeem any of the Junior Stock or any warrants, rights, calls or options exercisable for any of the Junior Stock, unless prior to or concurrently with such declaration, payment, setting apart for payment, purchase or distribution, as the case may be, all accrued and unpaid cash dividends, including additional payments thereon, on shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock not paid on the dates provided for in paragraph (ii) above shall have been or be paid; , , that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Corporation from repurchasing shares of the Common Stock (as defined in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation) as required by law or by the terms of any employee stock ownership plan of the Corporation.
provided
however
 
(vii) Subject to the foregoing provisions of this section, the Board of Directors may declare and the Corporation may pay or set apart for payment dividends and other distributions on any of the Junior Stock, and may purchase or otherwise redeem any of the Junior Stock or any warrants, rights or options exercisable for any of the Junior Stock, and the holders of the shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.
.
Liquidation Preference
(i) In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, the holders of shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid in cash out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders (x) a fixed amount per share determined on the Closing Date equal to 100 multiplied by the higher of (a) the closing price of common stock, par value $.001 per share ("Infoseek Common Stock"), of Infoseek Corporation as quoted on the Nasdaq National Market ("Nasdaq") on July 9, 1999 or (B) the closing price of Infoseek Common Stock as quoted on Nasdaq on the last trading date immediately prior to the Closing Date, plus (y) an amount equal to all accrued but unpaid dividends on the Series A Voting Preferred Stock to the date fixed for the liquidation (collectively, the "Liquidation Preference"), before any payment shall be made or any assets distributed to the holders of any of the Junior Stock. If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation payments payable to the holders of outstanding shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock having liquidation rights on parity with the shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock, then the holders of all such shares shall share ratably in such distribution of assets in accordance with the amount which would be payable on such distribution if the amounts to which the holders of outstanding shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock and all the holders of outstanding shares of such other series of preferred stock are entitled were paid in full.
(ii) For the purpose of this section, neither the voluntary sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all the property or assets of the Corporation, nor the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with one or more other corporations shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, unless such voluntary sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer shall be in connection with a dissolution or winding up of the business of the Corporation.
(iii) The sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assts or the merger or consolidation of the Corporation which results in the holders of the Common Stock receiving in exchange for such Common Stock either cash or notes, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness or obligations to pay cash or preferred stock of the surviving entity which ranks on parity with Series A Voting Preferred Stock in liquidation or dividends shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation within the meaning of this section. In the cases of merger or consolidation of the Corporation where holders of the Common Stock receive, in exchange for such Common Stock, common stock or preferred stock which is junior in liquidation and dividends to Series A Voting Preferred Stock in the surviving entity (whether or not the surviving entity is the Corporation) of such merger or consolidation or preferred stock of another entity (in either case, such
 
preferred stock to be received in exchange for Common Stock is herein referred to in this paragraph (iii) as "Exchanged Preferred Stock") the Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall be deemed to be preferred stock of such surviving entity or other entity, as the case may be, with the same dividend rate and equivalent rights to the rights set forth herein. In the event of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation where the consideration received by the holders of the Common Stock consists of two or more of the types of consideration set forth above, the holders of Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive either cash or securities based upon the foregoing in the same proportion as the holders of the Common Stock of the Corporation are receiving cash or debt securities, or equity securities in the surviving entity or another entity.
. The Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall not be subject to redemption.
Redemption
. Except as set forth herein and subject to applicable law, the holders of shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote together with the holders of Common Stock and any other class or series of stock entitled to vote with Common Stock as a single class on all matters to be voted upon by the Common Stock and shall not have any additional voting or veto rights. Each holder of shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one hundred (100) votes for each share of such stock held by such holder.
Voting Rights
. No consent of holders of Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall be required for (i) the creation of any indebtedness of any kind of the Corporation, (ii) the creation of any class of stock of the Corporation ranking junior as to dividends and upon liquidation to the Series A Voting Preferred Stock, (iii) any increase or decrease in the amount of authorized Common Stock or any increase, decrease or change from par value to no par value or (iv) the taking of any other action of the Corporation, other than such action as is specifically described herein as requiring the consent of holders of Series A Voting Preferred Stock or as otherwise required by applicable law.
Consent
. Disney Enterprises, Inc. ("DEI") shall not transfer, convey or sell any shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock to any "Related Person" (as hereinafter defined) and any purported transfer, conveyance or sale to any Related Person shall be null and void. DEI may, however, transfer, convey or sell shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock to any person that is not a Related Person. For purposes of this section, "Related Person" shall mean the Corporation and any person that bears a relationship to the Corporation described in Section 267(b) or Section 707(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Transfer
. The Series A Voting Preferred Stock shall, with respect to dividend rights and rights on liquidation, winding up or dissolution rank (i) on parity with any other class or series of preferred stock established by the Board of Directors, the terms of which shall specifically provide that such class or series shall rank on parity with the Series A Voting Preferred Stock with respect to dividend rights and rights on liquidation, winding up or dissolution, and (ii) prior to any other equity securities of the Corporation, including the Common Stock, with respect to dividend rights and rights on liquidation, winding up or dissolution.
Rank
 
. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Voting Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class.
Amendment
 

Exhibit 3.2
The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, Delaware.
Section 1.
Registered Office.
The principal place of business of the Corporation is hereby fixed and located at 500 South Buena Vista Street, Burbank, California 91521.
Section 2.
Principal Place of Business.
The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Section 3.
Other Offices.
Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors (and in the case of a special meeting, by the Board of Directors or the person calling the special meeting as authorized by Section 3 of this Article II) and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.
Section 1.
Place of Meetings.
The Annual Meetings of Stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time and place as may be fixed by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as is properly brought before the meeting in accordance with these Bylaws.
Section 2.
Annual Meetings.
Special meetings of stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President. Special meetings of stockholders may not be called by any other person or persons. Written notice of a special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, and only such business as is stated in such notice shall be acted upon thereat.
Section 3.
Special Meetings.
Except as may be otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority in voting power of the capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, a minority of the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting.
Section 4.
Quorum.
Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, (i) at all meetings of stockholders for the election of directors, a plurality of votes cast shall be sufficient to elect, and (ii) any other question brought before any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock represented and entitled to vote thereon. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in his discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
Section 5.
Voting.
Section 6.
Organization.
(a) All meetings of the stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and, if he is not present, by such officer or director as is designated by the Board of Directors. The Secretary of the Corporation or, if he is not present, any Assistant Secretary or other person designated by the presiding officer shall act as secretary of the meeting.
(b) The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present;
 
(iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting at the principal place of business of the Corporation. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present.
Section 7.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote.
The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 7 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
Section 8.
Stock Ledger.
Before any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. The Board of Directors may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability.
Section 9.
Inspectors of Election.
The inspectors shall:
(a) ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each,
(b) determine the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots,
(c) count all votes and ballots,
(d) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination made by the inspectors, and
(e) certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting and their count of all votes and ballots.
 
The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall act in accordance with applicable law.
Section 10.
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
(a) .
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Section 10 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 10, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such proposed business other than the nomination of persons for election to the Board of Directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty days before or more than seventy days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regu-lation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (and such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the
 
name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 10 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 10 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(b) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 10 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 10. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stock-holder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph(a)(2) of this Section 10 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders
 
(c) .
General
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 10 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (a)(2)(c)(iv) of this Section 10) and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not so made or proposed in compliance with this Section 10 to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted.
(2) For purposes of this Section 10, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 10, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 10. Nothing in this Section 10 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 1.
Number and Election of Directors.
(a) Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to elect directors of the Corporation, the Board of Directors shall consist of not less than nine nor more than 21 members with the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time solely by resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors. Except as provided in Section 3 of this Article, directors shall be elected by a "majority of votes cast" (as defined herein) at the Annual Meeting of stockholders to hold office as provided by Article FIFTH of the Certificate of Incorporation, unless the
 
election is contested, in which case directors shall be elected by a plurality of votes cast. An election shall be contested if, as determined by the Board of Directors, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected. For the purposes of this Section, a "majority of votes cast" means that the number of shares voted "for" a director exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director. Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy, shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal. Directors need not be stockholders.
(b) If a Director in an uncontested election does not receive a majority of votes cast for his or her election, the director shall, within ten business days of certification of election results, submit to the Board a letter of resignation for consideration by the Governance and Nominating Committee. The Governance and Nominating Committee shall promptly assess the appropriateness of such nominee continuing to serve as a director and recommend to the Board the action to be taken with respect to such tendered resignation. The Board will determine whether to accept or reject such resignation, or what other action should be taken, within 90 days from the date of the certification of election results.
. Any director may resign at any time effective upon giving written notice to the Corporation, unless the notice specifies a later time for the effectiveness of such resignation.
Section 2.
Resignation of Directors
Any vacancy on the Board of Directors, howsoever resulting may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for a term as specified in Article FIFTH of the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 3.
Vacancies.
The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 4.
Duties and Powers.
The Board of Directors shall annually elect one of its members to be Chairman of the Board and shall fill any vacancy in the position of Chairman of the Board at such time and in such manner as the Board of Directors shall determine. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of stockholders. The Chairman shall perform such other duties and services as shall be assigned to or required of the Chairman by the Board of Directors.
Section 5.
Chairman of the Board.
The Board of Directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or by a majority of the Board of Directors. Notice thereof, stating the place, date and hour of the meeting, shall be given to each director either by mail not less than four days before the date of the meeting, or personally or by telephone, telegram, telex or similar means of communication on 12 hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
Section 6.
Meetings.
 
Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Section 7.
Quorum; Action of Board of Directors.
Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
Section 8.
Action by Written Consent.
Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 9 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 9.
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone.
. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any committee, to the extent allowed by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation. The Board of Directors shall have the power to prescribe the manner in which proceedings of any such committee shall be conducted. In the absence of any such prescription, such committee shall have the power to prescribe the manner in which its proceedings shall be conducted. Unless the Board of Directors or such committee shall otherwise provide, regular and special meetings and other actions of any such committee shall be governed by the provisions of this Article III applicable to meetings and actions of the Board of Directors. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
Section 10.
Committees
 
Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services, and such reimbursement for expenses, as may be fixed or determined by the Board of Directors.
Section 11.
Fees and Compensation.
The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may also choose one or more Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Section 1.
General.
The Board of Directors at its first meeting held after each Annual Meeting of stockholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time solely by the Board of Directors, which determination may be by resolution of the Board of Directors or in any bylaw provision duly adopted or approved by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors with or without cause. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation may be filled only by the Board of Directors.
Section 2.
Election.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of these Bylaws and the control of the Board of Directors, have general and active management, direction and supervision over the business of the Corporation and over its officers. He shall perform all duties incident to the office of chief executive and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall report directly to the Board of Directors and shall have the right to delegate any of his powers to any other officer or employee.
Section 3.
Chief Executive Officer.
The President shall report and be responsible to the Chief Executive Officer. The President shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned or delegated to him by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or are incident to the office of President.
Section 4.
President.
The Executive Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors or are incident to the office of Executive Vice President.
Section 5.
Executive Vice Presidents.
 
The Senior Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors or are incident to the office of Senior Vice President.
Section 6.
Senior Vice Presidents.
The Vice Presidents shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors or are incident to the office of Vice President.
Section 7.
Vice Presidents.
The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or such other place as the Board of Directors may order, a book of minutes of all meetings of stockholders, the Board of Directors and its committees, with the time and place of holding, whether regular or special, and if special, how authorized, the notice thereof given, the names of those present at Board of Directors and committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof. The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, a copy of the Bylaws of the Corporation at the principal executive office or business office of the Corporation.
Section 8.
Secretary.
The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or at the office of the Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, if one be appointed, a stock register, or a duplicate stock register, showing the names of the stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each and, for holders of certificated shares, the number and date of certificates issued for the same and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and any committees thereof required by these Bylaws or by law to be given, shall keep the seal of the Corporation in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities of the Corporation and shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation, and shall send or cause to be sent to the stockholders of the Corporation such financial statements and reports as are by law or these Bylaws required to be sent to them.
Section 9.
Treasurer.
The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the Chief Executive Officer, the President and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
Such other officers or assistant officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Section 10.
Other Officers.
 
Each officer of the Corporation may execute, affix the corporate seal and/or deliver, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, deeds, mortgages, notes, bonds, contracts, agreements, powers of attorney, guarantees, settlements, releases, evidences of indebtedness, conveyances, or any other document or instrument which is authorized by the Board of Directors or is required to be executed in the ordinary course of business, except in cases where the execution, affixation of the corporate seal and/or delivery thereof shall be expressly and exclusively delegated by the Board of Directors to some other officer or agent of the Corporation.
Section 11.
Execution of Contracts and Other Documents.
Section 1.
Certificated or Uncertificated Shares.
(a) Shares of any or all of the Corporation's classes or series of stock may be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock (in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe) or may be issued in uncertificated form. The issuance of shares in uncertificated form shall not affect shares already represented by a certificate until the certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Except as expressly provided by law, there shall be no differences in the rights and obligations of stockholders based on whether or not their shares are represented by certificates.
(b) Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
Section 2.
Signatures.
(a) Every holder of stock in the Corporation represented by certificates, and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed, in the name of the Corporation (i) by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or any Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or Vice President and (ii) by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by him in the Corporation.
(b) Where a certificate is countersigned by (i) a transfer agent or (ii) a registrar, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or uncertificated shares to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or uncertificated shares, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Section 3.
Lost Certificates.
Transfers of shares of capital stock of the Corporation shall be made only on the stock record of the Corporation by the holder of record thereof or by his attorney thereunto authorized by the power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or the transfer agent thereof, and (1) in the case of certificated shares, only on surrender of the certificate or certificates representing such shares, properly endorsed or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power, or (2) in the case of uncertificated shares, upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of such uncertificated shares, or from a duly authorized attorney or from an individual presenting proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer the stock. The Board of Directors may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue and transfer of certificates representing shares of the capital stock of the Corporation.
Section 4.
Transfers.
Section 5.
Record Date.
(a) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(b) Notwithstanding Section 5(a) of Article V of these Bylaws, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be as fixed by the Board of Directors or as otherwise established under this Section 5(b). Any person seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent without a meeting shall, by written notice addressed to the Secretary and delivered to the Corporation, request that a record date be fixed for such purpose. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for such purpose which shall
 
be no more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board and shall not precede the date such resolution is adopted. If the Board of Directors fails within 10 days after the Corporation receives such notice to fix a record date for such purpose, the record date shall be the day on which the first written consent is delivered to the Corporation in the manner described in Section 5(c) below unless prior action by the Board of Directors is required under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, in which event the record date shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
(c) Every written consent purporting to take or authorizing the taking of corporate action and/or related revocations (each such written consent and related revocation is referred to in this Section 5(c) of Article V of the Bylaws as a "Consent") shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the Consent, and no Consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated Consent delivered in the manner required by this Section 5(c), Consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders to take such action are so delivered to the Corporation.
A Consent shall be delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery to the Corporation's registered office shall be made by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
In the event of the delivery to the Corporation of a Consent, the Secretary of the Corporation shall provide for the safe-keeping of such Consent and shall promptly conduct such ministerial review of the sufficiency of the Consents and of the validity of the action to be taken by stockholder consent as he deems necessary or appropriate, including, without limitation, whether the holders of a number of shares having the requisite voting power to authorize or take the action specified in the Consent have given consent; provided, however, that if the corporate action to which the Consent relates is the removal or replacement of one or more members of the Board of Directors, the Secretary of the Corporation shall promptly designate two persons, who shall not be members of the Board of Directors, to serve as inspectors with respect to such Consent and such inspectors shall discharge the functions of the Secretary of the Corporation under this Section 5(c). If after such investigation the Secretary or the inspectors (as the case may be) shall determine that the Consent is valid and that the action therein specified has been validly authorized, that fact shall forthwith be certified on the records of the Corporation kept for the purpose of recording the proceedings of meetings of stockholders, and the Consent shall be filed in such records, at which time the Consent shall become effective as stockholder action. In conducting the investigation required by this Section 5(c), the Secretary or the inspectors (as the case may be) may, at the expense of the Corporation, retain special legal counsel and any other necessary or appropriate professional advisors, and such other personnel as they may deem necessary or appropriate to assist them, and shall be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the opinion of such counsel or advisors.
 
The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law.
Section 6.
Beneficial Owners.
The Corporation shall not acquire any of its voting equity securities at a price exceeding the greater of the then-current market price of such securities or the average market price of such securities for the preceding thirty trading days from any person or group who or that is the beneficial owner of more than 2% of the Corporation's voting securities, the acquisition of such securities is (a) effected pursuant to the same offer and on terms extended to all holders of securities of such class and to all holders of any other class from or into which such securities may be converted, or (b) approved by a vote of a majority of the shares cast, excluding those owned by the beneficial owner whose shares are being acquired by the Corporation. This provision shall not restrict the Corporation from acquiring shares in other circumstances, including: (i) reacquiring shares in the open market or in block trades pursuant to a stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors, in each case in accordance with the requirements of Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b-18 or any successor rule, or (ii) reacquiring shares pursuant to the terms of a stock option plan that has been approved by a vote of a majority of the shares of common stock.
Section 7.
Certain Security Repurchases.
unless
.
Section 8.
Stockholder Rights Plans
(a) Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, the adoption of a stockholder rights plan, rights agreement or any other form of distribution to stockholders which is designed to or has the effect of making an acquisition of large holdings of the Corporation's shares of common stock more difficult or expensive ("Stockholder Rights Plan") shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of Directors including a majority of members who have been determined by the Board of Directors to be independent pursuant to the requirements of any policy of the Corporation and any applicable regulatory listing requirement ("Independent Members").
(b) Any Stockholder Rights Plan adopted after the effective date of this Section shall expire no later than one year following the date of its adoption or the most recent extension pursuant to clause (2) below unless (1) a majority of the Board including a majority of the Independent Members determines to extend the term of the Stockholder Rights Plan or any rights or options provided thereunder, in which case the Stockholder Rights Plan will remain in effect until the completion of the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders or (2) the Board unanimously determines that it is in the best interest of stockholders to extend the term of the Stockholder Rights Plan or any rights or options provided thereunder notwithstanding any absence of stockholder ratification.
 
(c) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall not apply to any Stockholder Rights Plan ratified by the stockholders.
(d) Any decision by the Board of Directors to repeal or amend this Section shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board including a majority of the Independent Members of the Board of Directors.
Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, to be given to any director or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director or stockholder, at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail. Written notice may also be given personally or by telegram, telex, cable or facsimile or (to the extent permitted by law) other electronic transmission followed, if required by law, by deposit in the United States mail, with postage prepaid.
Section 1.
Notices.
Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, to be given to any director or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
Section 2.
Waivers of Notice.
All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Section 1.
Disbursements.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 2.
Fiscal Year.
Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President or any other officer or officers authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, vote, represent and exercise on behalf of the Corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of the Corporation and take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Section 3.
Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation.
 
The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law (as now or hereafter in effect) any person made, or threatened to be made, a defendant or witness to any action, suit or proceeding (whether civil or criminal or otherwise) by reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or by reason of the fact that such director or officer, at the request of the Corporation, is or was serving any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, in any capacity. Nothing contained herein shall affect any rights to indemnification to which employees other than directors and officers may be entitled by law. No amendment or repeal of this Section 1 shall apply to or have any effect on any right to indemnification provided hereunder with respect to any acts or omissions occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
Section 1.
General.
In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute:
Section 2.
Further Assurance.
(a) the Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of law; and the Corporation may create a trust fund, grant a security interest and/or use other means (including, without limitation, letters of credit, surety bonds and/or other similar arrangements), as well as enter into contracts providing indemnification to the full extent authorized or permitted by law and including as part thereof provisions with respect to any or all of the foregoing to ensure the payment of such amounts as may become necessary to effect indemnification as provided therein, or elsewhere.
These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Bylaws may be adopted by either the holders of a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote thereon or by the Board of Directors.
Section 1.
General.
 
The provisions of this Article X shall be operative only during a national emergency declared by the President of the United States or the person performing the President's functions, or in the event of a nuclear, atomic or other attack on the United States or a disaster making it impossible or impracticable for the Corporation to conduct its business without recourse to the provisions of this Article X. Said provisions in such event shall override all other Bylaws of the Corporation in conflict with any provisions of this Article X, and shall remain operative so long as it remains impossible or impracticable to continue the business of the Corporation otherwise, but thereafter shall be inoperative; provided that all actions taken in good faith pursuant to such provisions shall thereafter remain in full force and effect unless and until revoked by action taken pursuant to the provisions of the Bylaws other than those contained in this Article X.
Section 1.
General.
All directors of the Corporation who are not available to perform their duties as directors by reason of physical or mental incapacity or for any other reason or who are unwilling to perform their duties or whose whereabouts are unknown shall automatically cease to be directors, with like effect as if such persons had resigned as directors, so long as such unavailability continues.
Section 2.
Unavailable Directors.
The authorized number of directors shall be the number of directors remaining after eliminating those who have ceased to be directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article X, or the minimum number required by law, whichever number is greater.
Section 3.
Authorized Number of Directors.
The number of directors necessary to constitute a quorum shall be one-third of the authorized number of directors as specified in Section 3 of this Article X, or such other minimum number as, pursuant to the law or lawful decree then in force, it is possible for the Bylaws of a Corporation to specify.
Section 4.
Quorum.
In the event the number of directors remaining after eliminating those who have ceased to be directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article X is less than the minimum number of authorized directors required by law, then until the appointment of additional directors to make up such required minimum, all the powers and authorities which the Board of Directors could by law delegate including all powers and authorities which the Board of Directors could delegate to a committee, shall be automatically vested in an emergency committee, and the emergency committee shall thereafter manage the affairs of the Corporation pursuant to such powers and authorities and shall have all other powers and authorities as may by law or lawful decree be conferred on any person or body of persons during a period of emergency.
Section 5.
Creation of Emergency Committee.
The emergency committee shall consist of all the directors remaining after eliminating those who have ceased to be directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article X, provided that such remaining directors are not less than three in number. In the event such remaining directors are less than
Section 6.
Constitution of Emergency Committee.
 
three in number, the emergency committee shall consist of three persons, who shall be the remaining director or directors and either one or two officers or employees of the Corporation, as the remaining director or directors may in writing designate. If there is no remaining director, the emergency committee shall consist of the three most senior officers of the Corporation who are available to serve, and if and to the extent that officers are not available, the most senior employees of the Corporation. Seniority shall be determined in accordance with any designation of seniority in the minutes of the proceedings of the Board, and in the absence of such designation, shall be determined by rate of remuneration. In the event that there are no remaining directors and no officers or employees of the Corporation available, the emergency committee shall consist of three persons designated in writing by the stockholder owning the largest number of shares of record as of the date of the last record date.
The emergency committee, once appointed, shall govern its own procedures and shall have power to increase the number of members thereof beyond the original number, and in the event of a vacancy or vacancies therein, arising at any time, the remaining member or members of the emergency committee shall have the power to fill such vacancy or vacancies. In the event at any time after its appointment all members of the emergency committee shall die or resign or become unavailable to act for any reason whatsoever, a new emergency committee shall be appointed in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Article X.
Section 7.
Powers of Emergency Committee.
Any person who has ceased to be a director pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of this Article X and who thereafter becomes available to serve as a director shall automatically become a member of the emergency committee.
Section 8.
Directors Becoming Available.
The emergency committee shall, as soon after its appointment as is practicable, take all requisite action to secure the election of a board of directors, and upon such election all the powers and authorities of the emergency committee shall cease.
Section 9.
Election of Board of Directors.
In the event, after the appointment of an emergency committee, a sufficient number of persons who ceased to be directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article X become available to serve as directors, so that if they had not ceased to be directors as aforesaid, there would be enough directors to constitute the minimum number of directors required by law, then all such persons shall automatically be deemed to be reappointed as directors and the powers and authorities of the emergency committee shall be at an end.
Section 10.
Termination of Emergency Committee.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan
1. . The purpose of The Walt Disney Company Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan is to further align the interests of employees and directors with those of the shareholders by providing incentive compensation opportunities tied to the performance of the Common Stock and by promoting increased ownership of the Common Stock by such individuals. The Plan is also intended to advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders by attracting, retaining and motivating key personnel upon whose judgment, initiative and effort the successful conduct of the Company's business is largely dependent.
Purpose
2. . Wherever the following capitalized terms are used in the Plan, they shall have the meanings specified below:
Definitions
"" means (i) any entity that would be treated as an "affiliate" of the Company for purposes of Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act and (ii) any joint venture or other entity in which the Company has a direct or indirect beneficial ownership interest representing at least one-third (1/3) of the aggregate voting power of the equity interests of such entity or one-third (1/3) of the aggregate fair market value of the equity interests of such entity, as determined by the Committee.
Affiliate
"" means an award of a Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Stock Unit Award or Stock Award granted under the Plan.
Award
"" means a written or electronic agreement entered into between the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award granted to a Participant.
Award Agreement
"" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" means the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share.
Common Stock
"" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee of the Board appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.
Committee
"" means The Walt Disney Company, a Delaware corporation.
Company
"" means the date on which an Award under the Plan is granted by the Committee, or such later date as the Committee may specify to be the effective date of an Award.
Date of Grant
"" means a Participant being considered "disabled" within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code, unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement.
Disability
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 14.1 hereof.
Effective Date
"" means any person who is an employee of the Company or any Affiliate or any person to whom an offer of employment with the Company or any Affiliate is extended, as determined by the Committee, or any person who is a Non-Employee Director.
Eligible Person
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" of a share of Common Stock as of a given date shall be the average of the highest and lowest of the New York Stock Exchange composite tape market prices at which the shares of Common Stock shall have been sold regular way on the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined or, if there shall be no such sale on such date, the next preceding day on which such a sale shall have occurred. If the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange on the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined, the Committee shall determine in good faith the Fair Market Value in whatever manner it considers appropriate.
Fair Market Value
"" means any Restricted Stock Award, Stock Unit Award or Stock Award.
Full-Value Award
"" means a Stock Option granted under Section 6 hereof that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
Incentive Stock Option
"" means any member of the Board who is not an employee of the Company.
Non-Employee Director
"" means a Stock Option granted under Section 6 hereof that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Stock Option
"" means any Eligible Person who holds an outstanding Award under the Plan.
Participant
"" means The Walt Disney Company Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan as set forth herein, effective as provided in Section 14.1 hereof and as may be amended from time to time.
Plan
"" means a grant of shares of Common Stock to an Eligible Person under Section 8 hereof that are issued subject to such vesting and transfer restrictions as the Committee shall determine, and such other conditions, as are set forth in the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.
Restricted Stock Award
"" means Section 162(m) of the Code or any successor provision thereto and the regulations thereunder.
Section 162(m)
"" means a Participant's employment with the Company or any Affiliate or a Participant's service as a Non-Employee Director with the Company, as applicable.
Service
"" means a grant of shares of Common Stock to an Eligible Person under Section 10 hereof that are issued free of transfer restrictions and forfeiture conditions.
Stock Award
"" means a contractual right granted to an Eligible Person under Section 7 hereof entitling such Eligible Person to receive a payment, representing the difference between the base price per share of the right and the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock, at such time, and subject to such conditions, as are set forth in the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.
Stock Appreciation Right
"" means a contractual right granted to an Eligible Person under Section 6 hereof to purchase shares of Common Stock at such time and price, and subject to such conditions, as are set forth in the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.
Stock Option
"" means a contractual right granted to an Eligible Person under Section 9 hereof representing notional unit interests equal in value to a share of Common Stock to be paid or distributed at such times, and subject to such conditions, as set forth in the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement.
Stock Unit Award
3. Administration.
3.1 . The Plan shall be administered by a Committee comprised of no fewer than two members of the Board. It is intended that each Committee member shall satisfy the requirements for (i) an "independent director" for purposes of the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Compensation Committee Charter, (ii) an "independent director" under rules adopted by the New York Stock Exchange, (iii) a "nonemployee director" for purposes of such Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act and (iv) an "outside director" under Section 162(m) of the Code. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Committee with respect to the Plan or any Award thereunder.
Committee Members
3.2 . The Committee shall have such powers and authority as may be necessary or appropriate for the Committee to carry out its functions as described in the Plan. Subject to the express limitations of the Plan, the Committee shall have authority in its discretion to determine the Eligible Persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards may be granted, the number of shares, units or other rights subject to each Award, the exercise, base or purchase price of an Award (if any), the time or times at which an Award will become vested, exercisable or payable, the performance goals and other conditions of an Award, the duration of the Award, and all other terms of the Award. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to amend the terms of an Award in any manner that is not inconsistent with the Plan, provided that no such action shall adversely affect the rights of a Participant with respect to an outstanding Award without the Participant's consent. The Committee shall also have discretionary authority to interpret the Plan and Award Agreements issued under the Plan, to make factual determinations under the Plan, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for Plan administration, including, without limitation, to correct any defect, to supply any omission or to reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award Agreement hereunder. The Committee may prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan. The Committee's determinations under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made by the Committee selectively among Participants and Eligible Persons, whether or not such persons are similarly situated. The Committee shall, in its discretion, consider such factors as it deems relevant in making its interpretations, determinations and actions under the Plan including, without limitation, the recommendations or advice of any officer or employee of the Company or such attorneys, consultants, accountants or other advisors as it may select. All interpretations, determinations and actions by the Committee shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all parties.
Committee Authority
3.3 . The Committee shall have the right, from time to time, to delegate to one or more officers of the Company the authority of the Committee to grant and determine the terms and conditions of Awards granted under the Plan, subject to the requirements of Section 157(c) of the Delaware General Corporation Law (or any successor
Delegation of Authority
 
provision) and such other limitations as the Committee shall determine. In no event shall any such delegation of authority be permitted with respect to Awards to be granted to any member of the Board or to any Eligible Person who is subject to Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act or who is a covered employee under Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee shall also be permitted to delegate, to any appropriate officer or employee of the Company, responsibility for performing certain ministerial functions under the Plan. In the event that the Committee's authority is delegated to officers or employees in accordance with the foregoing, all provisions of the Plan relating to the Committee shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the foregoing by treating any such reference as a reference to such officer or employee for such purpose. Any action undertaken in accordance with the Committee's delegation of authority hereunder shall have the same force and effect as if such action was undertaken directly by the Committee and shall be deemed for all purposes of the Plan to have been taken by the Committee.
3.4 . Any Awards or formula for granting Awards under the Plan made to Non-Employee Directors shall be approved by the Board. With respect to awards to such directors, all rights, powers and authorities vested in the Committee under the Plan shall instead be exercised by the Board, and all provisions of the Plan relating to the Committee shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the foregoing by treating any such reference as a reference to the Board for such purpose.
Grants to Non-Employee Directors
4. Shares Subject to the Plan.
4.1 . Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 4.3 hereof, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued and sold under all Awards granted under the Plan shall be 178 million shares. Any shares of Common Stock subject to (i) Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, whether granted before or after the Effective Date, or (ii) Full-Value Awards granted prior to the Effective Date, shall be counted against the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 as one share of Common Stock for every share of Common Stock subject thereto. Any shares of Common Stock subject to Full-Value Awards granted on or after the Effective Date shall be counted against the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 as two shares of Common Stock for every share of Common Stock subject thereto. To the extent that any Award of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, whether granted on or before the Effective Date, is forfeited, cancelled, returned to the Company for failure to satisfy vesting requirements or other conditions of the Award, or otherwise terminates without an issuance of shares of Common Stock being made thereunder, the shares of Common Stock covered by such Award of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights will no longer be counted against the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 and may again be made subject to Awards under the Plan, subject to the foregoing maximum share limitation, on the basis of one share for every share of Common Stock subject to such Award of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights. To the extent that any Full-Value Award granted prior to the Effective Date is forfeited, cancelled, returned to the Company for failure to satisfy vesting requirements or other conditions to the Award, or otherwise terminates without an issuance of shares of Common Stock being made thereunder, the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 shall be credited with one share of Common Stock for each share of Common Stock subject to such Full-Value Award, and such number of credited shares of Common Stock may again be made subject to Awards under the Plan subject to the foregoing maximum share limitation. To the extent that any Full-Value Award granted on or after the Effective Date is forfeited, cancelled, returned to the Company for failure to satisfy vesting requirements or other conditions to the Award, or otherwise terminates without an issuance of shares of Common Stock being made thereunder, such maximum share limitation shall be credited with two shares of Common Stock for each share of Common Stock subject to such Full-Value Award and such number of credited shares of Common Stock may again be made subject to Awards under the Plan, subject to the foregoing maximum share limitation. Shares of Common Stock delivered to the Company by a Participant to (A) purchase shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of an Award or (B) satisfy tax withholding obligations (including shares retained from the Award creating the obligation) shall not be added back to the number of shares available for the future grant of Awards. Shares of Common Stock repurchased by the Company on the open market using the proceeds from the exercise of an Award shall not increase the number of shares available for future grant of Awards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon exercise of a stock-settled Stock Appreciation Right, the number of shares subject to the Award that are then being exercised shall be counted against the maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the Plan as provided above, on the basis of one share for every share subject thereto, regardless of the actual number of shares used to settle the Stock Appreciation Right upon exercise. Any Awards or portions thereof that are settled in cash and not in shares of Common Stock shall not be counted against the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1. Shares of Common Stock issued and sold under the Plan may be either authorized but unissued shares or shares held in the Company's treasury. In the case of Incentive Stock Options, the foregoing provisions shall be subject to the provisions of the Code.
Maximum Share Limitations
4.2 . The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights in the aggregate granted to any one Participant during any single calendar year period shall be four million shares. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to Full-Value Awards in the aggregate granted to any one Participant during any single calendar year period shall be two million shares.
Individual Participant Limitations
 
The foregoing limitations shall each be applied on an aggregate basis taking into account Awards granted to a Participant under the Plan as well as awards of the same type granted to a Participant under any other equity-based compensation plan of the Company or any Affiliate. The per Participant limits described in this Section 4.2 shall be construed and applied consistently with Section 162(m).
4.3 . If there shall occur any change with respect to the outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of any recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse stock split or other distribution with respect to the shares of Common Stock, or any merger, reorganization, consolidation, combination, spin-off, or other similar corporate change, or any other change affecting the Common Stock, the Committee shall, in the manner and to the extent it considers equitable to the Participants and consistent with the terms of the Plan, cause an adjustment to be made in (i) the maximum number and kind of shares and the share counting rules provided in Section 4.1 and Section 4.2 hereof, (ii) the number and kind of shares of Common Stock, units, or other rights subject to then outstanding Awards, (iii) the exercise or base price for each share or unit or other right subject to then outstanding Awards, and (iv) any other terms of an Award that are affected by the event. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of Incentive Stock Options, any such adjustments shall, to the extent practicable, be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 424(a) of the Code.
Adjustments
5. Participation and Awards.
5.1 . All Eligible Persons are eligible to be designated by the Committee to receive Awards and become Participants under the Plan. The Committee has the authority, in its discretion, to determine and designate from time to time those Eligible Persons who are to be granted Awards, the types of Awards to be granted and the number of shares of Common Stock or units subject to Awards granted under the Plan. In selecting Eligible Persons to be Participants and in determining the type and amount of Awards to be granted under the Plan, the Committee shall consider any and all factors that it deems relevant or appropriate.
Designation of Participants
5.2 . The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of all Awards granted to Participants in accordance with its authority under Section 3.2 hereof. An Award may consist of one type of right or benefit hereunder or of two or more such rights or benefits granted in tandem or in the alternative. In the case of any fractional share or unit resulting from the grant, vesting, payment or crediting of dividends or dividend equivalents under an Award, the Committee shall have the discretionary authority to (i) disregard such fractional share or unit, (ii) round such fractional share or unit to the nearest lower or higher whole share or unit, or (iii) convert such fractional share or unit into a right to receive a cash payment. To the extent deemed necessary by the Committee, an Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement as described in Section 13.1 hereof.
Determination of Awards
6. Stock Options.
6.1 . A Stock Option may be granted to any Eligible Person selected by the Committee. Subject to the provisions of Section 6.8 hereof and Section 422 of the Code, each Stock Option shall be designated, in the discretion of the Committee, as an Incentive Stock Option or as a Nonqualified Stock Option.
Grant of Stock Options
6.2 . The exercise price per share of a Stock Option shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock on the Date of Grant, provided that the Committee may in its discretion specify for any Stock Option an exercise price per share that is higher than the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant.
Exercise Price
6.3 . The Committee shall in its discretion prescribe the time or times at which, or the conditions upon which, a Stock Option or portion thereof shall become vested and/or exercisable, and may accelerate the vesting or exercisability of any Stock Option at any time. The requirements for vesting and exercisability of a Stock Option may be based on the continued Service of the Participant with the Company or an Affiliate for a specified time period (or periods), on the attainment of a specified performance goal (or goals) or on such other terms and conditions as approved by the Committee in its discretion.
Vesting of Stock Options
6.4 . The Committee shall in its discretion prescribe in an Award Agreement the period during which a vested Stock Option may be exercised, provided that the maximum term of a Stock Option shall be ten years from the Date of Grant. Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6, Section 13.2 or as otherwise may be provided by the Committee in an Award Agreement, no Stock Option may be exercised at any time during the term thereof unless the Participant is then in the Service of the Company or one of its Affiliates.
Term of Stock Options
6.5 . Subject to Section 6.8 hereof with respect to Incentive Stock Options, the Stock Option of any Participant whose Service with the Company or one of its Affiliates is terminated for any reason shall terminate on the earlier of (A) the date that the Stock Option expires in accordance with its terms or (B) unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, and except for termination for cause (as described in Section 12.2 hereof), the expiration of the
Termination of Service
 
applicable time period following termination of Service, in accordance with the following: (1) twelve months if Service ceased due to Disability, (2) eighteen months if Service ceased at a time when the Participant is eligible to elect immediate commencement of retirement benefits at a specified retirement age under a pension plan to which the Company or any of its Affiliates had made contributions, (3) eighteen months if the Participant died while in the Service of the Company or any of its Affiliates, or (4) three months if Service ceased for any other reason. During the foregoing applicable period, except as otherwise specified in the Award Agreement or in the event Service was terminated by the death of the Participant, the Stock Option may be exercised by such Participant in respect of the same number of shares of Common Stock, in the same manner, and to the same extent as if he or she had remained in the continued Service of the Company or any Affiliate during the first three months of such period; provided that no additional rights shall vest after such three months. The Committee shall have authority to determine in each case whether an authorized leave of absence shall be deemed a termination of Service for purposes hereof, as well as the effect of a leave of absence on the vesting and exercisability of a Stock Option. Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, if an entity ceases to be an Affiliate or otherwise ceases to be qualified under the Plan or if all or substantially all of the assets of an Affiliate are conveyed (other than by encumbrance), such cessation or action, as the case may be, shall be deemed for purposes hereof to be a termination of the Service.
6.6 . Subject to such terms and conditions as shall be specified in an Award Agreement, a Stock Option may be exercised in whole or in part at any time during the term thereof by notice in the form required by the Company, together with payment of the aggregate exercise price therefor and applicable withholding tax. Payment of the exercise price shall be made in the manner set forth in the Award Agreement, unless otherwise provided by the Committee: (i) in cash or by cash equivalent acceptable to the Committee, (ii) by payment in shares of Common Stock that have been held by the Participant for at least six months (or such period as the Committee may deem appropriate, for accounting purposes or otherwise) valued at the Fair Market Value of such shares on the date of exercise, (iii) through an open-market, broker-assisted sales transaction pursuant to which the Company is promptly delivered the amount of proceeds necessary to satisfy the exercise price, (iv) by a combination of the methods described above or (v) by such other method as may be approved by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement. In addition to and at the time of payment of the exercise price, the Participant shall pay to the Company the full amount of any and all applicable income tax, employment tax and other amounts required to be withheld in connection with such exercise, payable under such of the methods described above for the payment of the exercise price as may be approved by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement.
Stock Option Exercise; Tax Withholding
6.7 . All Stock Options shall be nontransferable except (i) upon the Participant's death, in accordance with Section 13.2 hereof or (ii) in the case of Nonqualified Stock Options only, for the transfer of all or part of the Stock Option to a Participant's "family member" (as defined for purposes of the Form S-8 registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933), as may be approved by the Committee in its discretion at the time of proposed transfer. The transfer of a Nonqualified Stock Option may be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may in its discretion impose from time to time. Subsequent transfers of a Nonqualified Stock Option shall be prohibited other than in accordance with Section 13.2 hereof.
Limited Transferability of Nonqualified Stock Options
6.8 .
Additional Rules for Incentive Stock Options
(a) . An Incentive Stock Option may only be granted to an Eligible Person who is considered an employee for purposes of Treasury Regulation 1.421-7(h) with respect to the Company or any Affiliate that qualifies as a "subsidiary corporation" with respect to the Company for purposes of Section 424(f) of the Code.
Eligibility
(b) . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to a Participant as a result of which the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the Date of Grant) of the stock with respect to which incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code are exercisable for the first time in any calendar year under the Plan and any other stock option plans of the Company or any subsidiary or parent corporation, would exceed $100,000, determined in accordance with Section 422(d) of the Code. This limitation shall be applied by taking stock options into account in the order in which granted.
Annual Limits
(c) . An Award of an Incentive Stock Option may provide that such Stock Option may be exercised not later than 3 months following termination of employment of the Participant with the Company and all Subsidiaries, or not later than one year following a permanent and total disability within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, as and to the extent determined by the Committee to comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code.
Termination of Employment
(d) . Any Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder shall contain such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as are deemed necessary or desirable by the Committee, which terms, together with the terms of the Plan, shall be intended and interpreted to cause such Incentive Stock Option to qualify as an "incentive stock option" under Section 422 of the Code. An Award Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option may provide that such Stock Option shall be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option to
Other Terms and Conditions; Nontransferability
 
the extent that certain requirements applicable to "incentive stock options" under the Code shall not be satisfied. An Incentive Stock Option shall by its terms be nontransferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Participant only by such Participant.
(e) . If shares of Common Stock acquired by exercise of an Incentive Stock Option are disposed of within two years following the Date of Grant or one year following the transfer of such shares to the Participant upon exercise, the Participant shall, promptly following such disposition, notify the Company in writing of the date and terms of such disposition and provide such other information regarding the disposition as the Company may reasonably require.
Disqualifying Dispositions
6.9 . Subject to the anti-dilution adjustment provisions contained in Section 4.3 hereof, without the prior approval of the Company's shareholders, evidenced by a majority of votes cast, neither the Committee nor the Board shall cause the cancellation, substitution or amendment of a Stock Option that would have the effect of reducing the exercise price of such a Stock Option previously granted under the Plan, or otherwise approve any modification to such a Stock Option that would be treated as a "repricing" under the then applicable rules, regulations or listing requirements adopted by the New York Stock Exchange.
Repricing Prohibited
7. Stock Appreciation Rights.
7.1 . A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted to any Eligible Person selected by the Committee. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted on a basis that allows for the exercise of the right by the Participant or that provides for the automatic payment of the right upon a specified date or event.
Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights
7.2 . A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted without any related Stock Option. The Committee shall in its discretion provide in an Award Agreement the time or times at which, or the conditions upon which, a Stock Appreciation Right or portion thereof shall become vested and/or exercisable, and may accelerate the vesting or exercisability of any Stock Appreciation Right at any time. The requirements for vesting and exercisability of a Stock Appreciation Right may be based on the continued Service of a Participant with the Company or an Affiliate for a specified time period (or periods). on the attainment of a specified performance goal (or goals) or on such other terms and conditions as approved by the Committee in its discretion. A Stock Appreciation Right will be exercisable or payable at such time or times as determined by the Committee, provided that the maximum term of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be ten years from the Date of Grant. The base price of a Stock Appreciation Right granted without any related Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided, however, that the base price per share of any such freestanding Stock Appreciation Right shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock on the Date of Grant.
Freestanding Stock Appreciation Rights
7.3 . A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted in tandem with a Stock Option, either at the time of grant or at any time thereafter during the term of the Stock Option. A tandem Stock Option/Stock Appreciation Right will entitle the holder to elect, as to all or any portion of the number of shares subject to the Award, to exercise either the Stock Option or the Stock Appreciation Right, resulting in the reduction of the corresponding number of shares subject to the right so exercised as well as the tandem right not so exercised. A Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with a Stock Option hereunder shall have a base price per share equal to the per share exercise price of the Stock Option, will be vested and exercisable at the same time or times that a related Stock Option is vested and exercisable, and will expire no later than the time at which the related Stock Option expires.
Tandem Stock Option/Stock Appreciation Rights
7.4 . A Stock Appreciation Right will entitle the holder, upon exercise or other payment of the Stock Appreciation Right, as applicable, to receive an amount determined by multiplying: (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise or payment of the Stock Appreciation Right over the base price of such Stock Appreciation Right, by (ii) the number of shares as to which such Stock Appreciation Right is exercised or paid. Subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, payment of the amount determined under the foregoing may be made, as approved by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement, in shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise or payment, in cash, or in a combination of shares of Common Stock and cash, subject to applicable tax withholding requirements.
Payment of Stock Appreciation Rights
 
7.5 . Subject to the anti-dilution adjustment provisions contained in Section 4.3 hereof, without the prior approval of the Company's shareholders, evidenced by a majority of votes cast, neither the Committee nor the Board shall cause the cancellation, substitution or amendment of a Stock Appreciation Right that would have the effect of reducing the base price of such a Stock Appreciation Right previously granted under the Plan, or otherwise approve any modification to such a Stock Appreciation Right that would be treated as a "repricing" under the then applicable rules, regulations or listing requirements adopted by the New York Stock Exchange.
Repricing Prohibited
8. Restricted Stock Awards.
8.1 . A Restricted Stock Award may be granted to any Eligible Person selected by the Committee. The Committee may require the payment by the Participant of a specified purchase price in connection with any Restricted Stock Award.
Grant of Restricted Stock Awards
8.2 . The restrictions imposed on shares granted under a Restricted Stock Award shall lapse in accordance with the vesting requirements specified by the Committee in the Award Agreement, provided that the Committee may accelerate the vesting of a Restricted Stock Award at any time. The requirements for vesting of a Restricted Stock Award may be based on the continued Service of the Participant with the Company or an Affiliate for a specified time period (or periods), on the attainment of a specified performance goal (or goals) or on such other terms and conditions as approved by the Committee in its discretion. If the vesting requirements of a Restricted Stock Award shall not be satisfied, the Award shall be forfeited and the shares of Common Stock subject to the Award shall be returned to the Company.
Vesting Requirements
8.3 . Shares granted under any Restricted Stock Award may not be transferred, assigned or subject to any encumbrance, pledge, or charge until all applicable restrictions are removed or have expired, unless otherwise allowed by the Committee. Failure to satisfy any applicable restrictions shall result in the subject shares of the Restricted Stock Award being forfeited and returned to the Company. The Committee may require in an Award Agreement that certificates representing the shares granted under a Restricted Stock Award bear a legend making appropriate reference to the restrictions imposed, and that certificates representing the shares granted or sold under a Restricted Stock Award will remain in the physical custody of an escrow holder until all restrictions are removed or have expired.
Restrictions
8.4 . Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 8 and the applicable Award Agreement, the Participant shall have all rights of a shareholder with respect to the shares granted to the Participant under a Restricted Stock Award, including the right to vote the shares and receive all dividends and other distributions paid or made with respect thereto. The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement for the payment of dividends and distributions to the Participant at such times as paid to shareholders generally or at the times of vesting or other payment of the Restricted Stock Award.
Rights as Shareholder
8.5 . If a Participant makes an election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code with respect to a Restricted Stock Award, the Participant shall file, within 30 days following the Date of Grant, a copy of such election with the Company and with the Internal Revenue Service, in accordance with the regulations under Section 83 of the Code. The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement that the Restricted Stock Award is conditioned upon the Participant's making or refraining from making an election with respect to the Award under Section 83(b) of the Code.
Section 83(b) Election
9. Stock Unit Awards.
9.1 . A Stock Unit Award may be granted to any Eligible Person selected by the Committee. The value of each stock unit under a Stock Unit Award is equal to the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the applicable date or time period of determination, as specified by the Committee. A Stock Unit Award shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall determine. A Stock Unit Award may be granted together with a dividend equivalent right with respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to the Award, which may be accumulated and may be deemed reinvested in additional stock units, as determined by the Committee in its discretion.
Grant of Stock Unit Awards
9.2 . On the Date of Grant, the Committee shall in its discretion determine any vesting requirements with respect to a Stock Unit Award, which shall be set forth in the Award Agreement, provided that the Committee may accelerate the vesting of a Stock Unit Award at any time. The requirements for vesting of a Stock Unit Award may be based on the continued Service of the Participant with the Company or an Affiliate for a specified time period (or periods), on the attainment of a specified performance goal (or goals) or on such other terms and conditions as approved by the Committee in its discretion. A Stock Unit Award may also be granted on a fully vested basis, with a deferred payment date.
Vesting of Stock Unit Awards
 
9.3 . A Stock Unit Award shall become payable to a Participant at the time or times determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement, which may be upon or following the vesting of the Award. Payment of a Stock Unit Award may be made, at the discretion of the Committee, in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination thereof, subject to applicable tax withholding requirements. Any cash payment of a Stock Unit Award shall be made based upon the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, determined on such date or over such time period as determined by the Committee.
Payment of Stock Unit Awards
9.4 r. The Participant shall not have any rights as a shareholder with respect to the shares subject to a Stock Unit Award until such time as shares of Common Stock are delivered to the Participant pursuant to the terms of the Award Agreement.
No Rights as Shareholde
10. Stock Awards.
10.1 . A Stock Award may be granted to any Eligible Person selected by the Committee. A Stock Award may be granted for past services, in lieu of bonus or other cash compensation, as directors' compensation or for any other valid purpose as determined by the Committee. A Stock Award granted to an Eligible Person represents shares of Common Stock that are issued without restrictions on transfer and other incidents of ownership and free of forfeiture conditions, except as otherwise provided in the Plan and the Award Agreement. The Committee may, in connection with any Stock Award, require the payment of a specified purchase price.
Grant of Stock Awards
10.2 . Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 10 and the applicable Award Agreement, upon the issuance of the Common Stock under a Stock Award the Participant shall have all rights of a shareholder with respect to the shares of Common Stock, including the right to vote the shares and receive all dividends and other distributions paid or made with respect thereto.
Rights as Shareholder
11. Change in Control.
11.1 Except to the extent an Award Agreement provides for a different result (in which case the Award Agreement will govern and this Section 11 of the Plan shall not be applicable), and except as may be limited by the provisions of Section 11.3 hereof, notwithstanding anything elsewhere in the Plan or any rules adopted by the Committee pursuant to the Plan to the contrary, if a Triggering Event shall occur within the 12-month period beginning with a Change in Control of the Company, then, effective immediately prior to the Triggering Event:
Effect of a Change in Control.
(i) each outstanding Stock Option and Stock Appreciation Right, to the extent that it shall not otherwise have become vested and exercisable, shall automatically become fully and immediately vested and exercisable, without regard to any otherwise applicable vesting requirement;
(ii) each Restricted Stock Award shall become fully and immediately vested and all forfeiture and transfer restrictions thereon shall lapse; and
(iii) each outstanding Stock Unit Award shall become immediately and fully vested and payable;
provided, however, that with respect to Stock Unit Awards and any other Awards that are subject to Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued thereunder ("Section 409A"), the Common Stock, securities, cash or other consideration payable with respect to the Award shall be payable immediately following (and in no event more than 90 days following) the Participant's "separation from service" (as defined under Section 409A), except that, to the extent that such Awards are held by a Participant who is a "specified employee" (as determined under Section 409A), the delivery of the Common Stock, securities, cash or other consideration payable with respect to such Awards shall be delayed to the date that is six months and one day following the Participant's "separation from service" solely to the extent necessary to avoid the additional taxes imposed by Section 409A(a)(i)(B) of the Code.
11.2 .
Definitions
(a) . For purposes of this Section 11, the term "Cause" shall mean a determination by the Committee that a Participant (i) has been convicted of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere to, a crime that constitutes a felony under Federal or state law, (ii) has engaged in willful gross misconduct in the performance of the Participant's duties to the Company or an Affiliate or (iii) has committed a material breach of any written agreement with the Company or any Affiliate with respect to confidentiality, noncompetition, nonsolicitation or similar restrictive covenant. Subject to the first sentence of Section 11.1 hereof, in the event that a Participant is a party to an employment agreement with the Company or any Affiliate that defines termination on account of "Cause" (or a term having similar meaning), such definition shall apply as the definition of a termination on account of "Cause" for purposes hereof, but only to the extent that such definition provides the Participant with greater rights. A termination on account of Cause shall be communicated by written notice to the Participant, and shall be deemed to occur on the date such notice is delivered to the Participant.
Cause
 
(b) . For purposes of this Section 11, a "Change in Control" shall occur upon:
Change in Control
(i) the acquisition within any 12-month period by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of thirty percent (30%) or more of the total voting power of the then outstanding stock of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, but excluding the following transactions (the "Excluded Acquisitions"):
(1) any acquisition directly from the Company (other than an acquisition by virtue of the exercise of a conversion privilege of a security that was not acquired directly from the Company),
(2) any acquisition by the Company, and
(3) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company);
(ii) any time during a period of 12 months or less, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board (and any new directors whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was so approved) ceasing for any reason to constitute a majority thereof:
(iii) an acquisition (other than an Excluded Acquisition) by any Person of fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting power or value of the Company's stock;
(iv) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization or similar corporate transaction, whether or not the Company is the surviving company in such transaction, other than a merger, consolidation, or reorganization that would result in the Persons who are beneficial owners of the Company's stock outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to beneficially own, directly or indirectly, in substantially the same proportions, at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power or value of the Company's stock (or the stock of the surviving entity) outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or reorganization; or
(v) the sale or other disposition during any 12 month period of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, provided that such sale is of assets having a total gross fair market value equal to or greater than 40% of the total gross fair market value of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such sale or disposition.
The foregoing definition of "Change in Control" is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued thereunder and shall be interpreted and applied by the Committee in a manner consistent therewith.
(c) . For purposes of this Section 11, a "Constructive Termination" shall mean a termination of employment by a Participant within sixty (60) days following the occurrence of any one or more of the following events without the Participant's written consent (i) any reduction in position, title (for Vice Presidents and above), overall responsibilities, level of authority, level of reporting (for Vice Presidents and above), base compensation, annual incentive compensation opportunity, aggregate employee benefits or (ii) a request that the Participant's location of employment be relocated by more than fifty (50) miles. Subject to the first sentence of Section 11.1 hereof, in the event that a Participant is a party to an employment agreement with the Company or an Affiliate (or a successor entity) that defines a termination on account of "Constructive Termination," "Good Reason" or "Breach of Agreement" (or a term having similar meaning), such definition shall apply as the definition of "Constructive Termination" for purposes hereof in lieu of the foregoing, but only to the extent that such definition provides the Participant with greater rights. A Constructive Termination shall be communicated by written notice to the Committee, and shall be deemed to occur on the date such notice is delivered to the Committee, unless the circumstances giving rise to the Constructive Termination are cured within five (5) days of such notice.
Constructive Termination
(d) . For purposes of this Section 11, a "Triggering Event" shall mean (i) the termination of Service of a Participant by the Company or an Affiliate (or any successor thereof) other than on account of death, Disability or Cause or (ii) the occurrence of a Constructive Termination.
Triggering Event
11.3 . In the event that the vesting of Awards together with all other payments and the value of any benefits received or to be received by a Participant (the "Total Payments") would result in all or a portion of such Total Payments being subject to the excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code (the "Excise Tax"), then the Participant's Total Payments shall be either (i) the full amount of such payments and benefits or (ii) such lesser amount that would result in no portion of the Total Payments being subject to excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code, whichever of the foregoing amounts, taking into account the applicable Federal, state, and local employment taxes, income taxes and the Excise Tax, results in the receipt by the Participant, on an after-tax basis, of the greatest amount of payments and benefits notwithstanding that all or some portion of such payments and benefits may be taxable under Section 4999 of the Code. Solely to the extent that the Participant is better off on an after-tax basis as a result of the reduction of Total Payments,
Excise Tax Limit
 
such payments and benefits shall be reduced or eliminated, as determined by the Company, in the following order: (i) any cash payments, (ii) any taxable benefits, (iii) any nontaxable benefits, and (iv) any vesting or accelerated delivery of equity awards in each case in reverse order beginning with the payments or benefits that are to be paid the farthest in time from the date that triggers the applicable Excise Tax.
All determinations required to be made under this Section 11 shall be made by PricewaterhouseCoopers or any other nationally recognized accounting firm which is the Company's outside auditor immediately prior to the event triggering the payments that are subject to the Excise Tax (the "Accounting Firm"). The Company shall cause the Accounting Firm to provide detailed supporting calculations of its determinations to the Company and the Participant. All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. The Accounting Firm's determinations must be made with substantial authority (within the meaning of Section 6662 of the Code). For the purposes of all calculations under Section 280G of the Code and the application of this Section 11.3, all determinations as to the present value shall be made using 120 percent of the applicable Federal rate (determined under Section 1274(d) of the Code) compounded semiannually, as in effect on the date of the Change in Control of the Company.
11.4 Applicability of Certain Amendments made on October 2, 2008. This Section 11 has been amended on and as of October 2, 2008. All of the provisions of this Section 11 as so amended are applicable to:
(i) all Awards under this Plan (other than Awards for Stock Options) outstanding on October 2, 2008, regardless of any terms or provisions hereof or thereof to the contrary, and
(ii) all Awards granted under this Plan on or after October 2, 2008, except as otherwise expressly provided by the Committee at any time on or after October 2, 2008.
12. Forfeiture Events.
12.1 . The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement at the time of the Award that the Participant's rights, payments and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events shall include, but shall not be limited to, termination of Service for cause, violation of material Company policies, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company.
General
12.2 . Unless otherwise provided by the Committee and set forth in an Award Agreement, if a Participant's employment with the Company or any Affiliate shall be terminated for cause, the Company may, in its sole discretion, immediately terminate such Participant's right to any further payments, vesting or exercisability with respect to any Award in its entirety. In the event a Participant is party to an employment (or similar) agreement with the Company or any Affiliate that defines the term "cause," such definition shall apply for purposes of the Plan. The Company shall have the power to determine whether the Participant has been terminated for cause and the date upon which such termination for cause occurs. Any such determination shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Participant. In addition, if the Company shall reasonably determine that a Participant has committed or may have committed any act which could constitute the basis for a termination of such Participant's employment for cause, the Company may suspend the Participant's rights to exercise any option, receive any payment or vest in any right with respect to any Award pending a determination by the Company of whether an act has been committed which could constitute the basis for a termination for "cause" as provided in this Section 12.2.
Termination for Cause
13. General Provisions.
13.1 . To the extent deemed necessary by the Committee, an Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement in a written or electronic form approved by the Committee setting forth the number of shares of Common Stock or units subject to the Award, the exercise price, base price, or purchase price of the Award, the time or times at which an Award will become vested, exercisable or payable and the term of the Award. The Award Agreement may also set forth the effect on an Award of termination of Service under certain circumstances. The Award Agreement shall be subject to and incorporate, by reference or otherwise, all of the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan, and may also set forth other terms and conditions applicable to the Award as determined by the Committee consistent with the limitations of the Plan. Award Agreements evidencing Incentive Stock Options shall contain such terms and conditions as may be necessary to meet the applicable provisions of Section 422 of the Code. The grant of an Award under the Plan shall not confer any rights upon the Participant holding such Award other than such terms, and subject to such conditions, as are specified in the Plan as being applicable to such type of Award (or to all Awards) or as are expressly set forth in the Award Agreement. The Committee need not require the execution of an Award Agreement by a Participant, in which case, acceptance of the Award by the Participant shall constitute agreement by the Participant to the terms, conditions, restrictions and limitations set forth in the Plan and the Award Agreement as well as the administrative guidelines of the Company in effect from time to time.
Award Agreement
 
13.2 . In the event of the death of a Participant while employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates, except as otherwise provided by the Committee in an Award Agreement, an outstanding Award may be exercised by or shall become payable to the Participant's beneficiary as designated by the Participant in the manner prescribed by the Committee or, in the absence of an authorized beneficiary designation, by the a legatee or legatees of such Award under the participant's last will, or by such Participant's executors, personal representatives or distributees of such Award in accordance with the Participant's will or the laws of descent and distribution (a "Beneficiary"). In the case of Stock Options, except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, any outstanding Stock Options of a Participant who dies while in Service may be exercised by such Beneficiary in respect of all or any part of the total number of shares subject to such options at the time of such Participant's death (whether or not, at the time of death, the deceased Participant would have been entitled to exercise such options to the extent of all or any of the shares covered thereby). However, except as otherwise provided by the Committee in an Award Agreement, in the event of the death of the Participant after the date of termination of Service while an Option remains outstanding, then such deceased Participant's Options shall expire in accordance with their terms at the same time they would have expired if such Participant had not died, and may be exercised prior to their expiration by a Beneficiary in respect to the same number of shares, in the same manner and to the same extent as if such Participant were then living. In the case of Awards other than Stock Options, except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, any outstanding Awards of a Participant who dies while in Service shall become fully vested and, in the case of Stock Appreciation Rights, exercisable as provided above with respect to stock options, and in the case of all other types of Awards, payable to the Beneficiary promptly following the Participant's death.
Treatment of Awards upon Death
13.3 . Except as provided in Sections 6.7 and 13.2 hereof, Awards under the Plan shall not be assignable or transferable by the Participant, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall not be subject in any manner to assignment, alienation, pledge, encumbrance or charge. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may provide in the terms of an Award Agreement or in any other manner prescribed by the Committee that the Participant shall have the right to designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries who shall be entitled to any rights, payments or other benefits specified under an Award following the Participant's death. During the lifetime of a Participant, an Award shall be exercised only by such Participant or such Participant's guardian or legal representative.
No Assignment or Transfer; Beneficiaries
13.4 . The Committee may in its discretion permit a Participant to defer the receipt of payment of cash or delivery of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be due to the Participant by virtue of the exercise of a right or the satisfaction of vesting or other conditions with respect to an Award. If any such deferral is to be permitted by the Committee, the Committee shall establish rules and procedures relating to such deferral in a manner intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including, without limitation, the time when an election to defer may be made, the time period of the deferral and the events that would result in payment of the deferred amount, the interest or other earnings attributable to the deferral and the method of funding, if any, attributable to the deferred amount.
Deferrals of Payment
13.5 . Nothing in the Plan, in the grant of any Award or in any Award Agreement shall confer upon any Eligible Person or any Participant any right to continue in the Service of the Company or any of its Affiliates, or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any of its Affiliates to terminate the employment or other service relationship of an Eligible employee or a Participant for any reason at any time.
Employment or Service
13.6 . A Participant shall have no rights as a holder of shares of Common Stock with respect to any unissued securities covered by an Award until the date the Participant becomes the holder of record of such securities. Except as provided in Section 4.3 hereof, no adjustment or other provision shall be made for dividends or other shareholder rights, except to the extent that the Award Agreement provides for dividend payments or dividend equivalent rights. The Committee may determine in its discretion the manner of delivery of Common Stock to be issued under the Plan, which may be by delivery of stock certificates, electronic account entry into new or existing accounts or any other means as the Committee, in its discretion, deems appropriate. The Committee may require that the stock certificates be held in escrow by the Company for any shares of Common Stock or cause the shares to be legended in order to comply with the securities laws or other applicable restrictions, or should the shares of Common Stock be represented by book or electronic account entry rather than a certificate, the Committee may take such steps to restrict transfer of the shares of Common Stock as the Committee considers necessary or advisable.
Rights as Shareholder
 
13.7 . No shares of Common Stock will be issued or transferred pursuant to an Award unless and until all then applicable requirements imposed by Federal and state securities and other laws, rules and regulations and by any regulatory agencies having jurisdiction, and by any exchanges upon which the shares of Common Stock may be listed, have been fully met. As a condition precedent to the issuance of shares pursuant to the grant or exercise of an Award, the Company may require the Participant to take any reasonable action to meet such requirements. The Committee may impose such conditions on any shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, under the requirements of any exchange upon which such shares of the same class are then listed, and under any blue sky or other securities laws applicable to such shares. The Committee may also require the Participant to represent and warrant at the time of issuance or transfer that the shares of Common Stock are being acquired only for investment purposes and without any current intention to sell or distribute such shares.
Securities Laws
13.8 . The Participant shall be responsible for payment of any taxes or similar charges required by law to be paid or withheld from an Award or an amount paid in satisfaction of an Award. Any required withholdings shall be paid by the Participant on or prior to the payment or other event that results in taxable income in respect of an Award. The Award Agreement may specify the manner in which the withholding obligation shall be satisfied with respect to the particular type of Award.
Tax Withholding
13.9 . The adoption of the Plan and any reservation of shares of Common Stock or cash amounts by the Company to discharge its obligations hereunder shall not be deemed to create a trust or other funded arrangement. Except upon the issuance of Common Stock pursuant to an Award, any rights of a Participant under the Plan shall be those of a general unsecured creditor of the Company, and neither a Participant nor the Participant's permitted transferees or estate shall have any other interest in any assets of the Company by virtue of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall have the right to implement or set aside funds in a grantor trust, subject to the claims of the Company's creditors or otherwise, to discharge its obligations under the Plan.
Unfunded Plan
13.10 . The adoption of the Plan shall not affect any other share incentive or other compensation plans in effect for the Company or any Affiliate, nor shall the Plan preclude the Company from establishing any other forms of share incentive or other compensation or benefit program for employees of the Company or any Affiliate. The amount of any compensation deemed to be received by a Participant pursuant to an Award shall not constitute includable compensation for purposes of determining the amount of benefits to which a Participant is entitled under any other compensation or benefit plan or program of the Company or an Affiliate, including, without limitation, under any pension or severance benefits plan, except to the extent specifically provided by the terms of any such plan.
Other Compensation and Benefit Plans
13.11 . The Plan shall be binding upon the Company, its transferees and assigns, and the Participant, the Participant's executor, administrator and permitted transferees and beneficiaries.
Plan Binding on Transferees
13.12 . If any provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement shall be determined to be illegal or unenforceable by any court of law in any jurisdiction, the remaining provisions hereof and thereof shall be severable and enforceable in accordance with their terms, and all provisions shall remain enforceable in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
13.13 . The Committee may adopt, amend and terminate such arrangements and grant such Awards, not inconsistent with the intent of the Plan, as it may deem necessary or desirable to comply with any tax, securities, regulatory or other laws of other jurisdictions with respect to Awards that may be subject to such laws. The terms and conditions of such Awards may vary from the terms and conditions that would otherwise be required by the Plan solely to the extent the Committee deems necessary for such purpose. Moreover, the Board may approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of the Plan, not inconsistent with the intent of the Plan, as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes, without thereby affecting the terms of the Plan as in effect for any other purpose.
Foreign Jurisdictions
13.14 . Nothing contained in the Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Committee to grant Awards under the Plan in connection with the acquisition, whether by purchase, merger, consolidation or other corporate transaction, of the business or assets of any corporation or other entity. Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee may grant Awards under the Plan to an employee or director of another corporation who becomes an Eligible Person by reason of any such corporate transaction in substitution for awards previously granted by such corporation or entity to such person. The terms and conditions of the substitute Awards may vary from the terms and conditions that would otherwise be required by the Plan solely to the extent the Committee deems necessary for such purpose.
Substitute Awards in Corporate Transactions
13.15 . For purposes of Restricted Stock Awards, Stock Unit Awards and Stock Awards granted under the Plan that are intended to qualify as "performance-based" compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, such Awards shall be granted in accordance with the provisions of the Company's 2002 Executive Performance Plan (or any successor plan) to the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Coordination with 2002 Executive Performance Plan
 
13.16 . To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Plan and all Awards hereunder comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, and the Plan and all Award Agreements shall be interpreted and applied by the Committee in a manner consistent with this intent in order to avoid the imposition of any additional tax under Section 409A of the Code. In the event that any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement is determined by the Committee to not comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the Committee shall have the authority to take such actions and to make such changes to the Plan or an Award Agreement as the Committee deems necessary to comply with such requirements, provided that no such action shall adversely affect any outstanding Award without the consent of the affected Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything elsewhere in the Plan or an Award Agreement to the contrary: (a) unless the Committee shall otherwise expressly provide at any time on or after October 2, 2008, the term "disability" shall have the meaning given to such term under Section 409A and the regulations and guidance issued thereunder with respect to any Awards (other than Stock Options) outstanding on such date and with respect to any Awards granted on or after such date; and (b) if a Participant is a "specified employee" as defined in Section 409A of the Code at the time of termination of Service with respect to an Award, then solely to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of any additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, the commencement of any payments or benefits under the Award shall be deferred until the date that is six months following the Participant's termination of Service (or such other period as required to comply with Section 409A).
Section 409A Compliance
13.17 . The Plan and all rights hereunder shall be subject to and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to the principles of conflicts of laws, and to applicable Federal securities laws.
Governing Law
14. Effective Date; Amendment and Termination.
14.1 . The Plan as amended and restated shall become effective immediately following its approval by the shareholders of the Company. The term of the Plan shall be seven (7) years from the date of the original adoption of the Plan (prior to this amendment and restatement) by the Board, subject to Section 14.3 hereof.
Effective Date
14.2 . The Board may at any time and from time to time and in any respect, amend or modify the Plan. The Board may seek the approval of any amendment or modification by the Company's shareholders to the extent it deems necessary or advisable in its discretion for purposes of compliance with Section 162(m) or Section 422 of the Code, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or other exchange or securities market or for any other purpose. No amendment or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any Award theretofore granted without the consent of the Participant or the permitted transferee of the Award.
Amendment
14.3 . The Plan shall terminate on December 30, 2011, which is the seventh anniversary of the date of its adoption by the Board. The Board may, in its discretion and at any earlier date, terminate the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no termination of the Plan shall adversely affect any Award theretofore granted without the consent of the Participant or the permitted transferee of the Award.
Termination
 


