FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20100810161253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 10, 2010, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 10, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
August 10, 2010
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for its third fiscal quarter and nine months ended July 3, 2010. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter increased 31% to $0.67 from $0.51 in the prior-year quarter. For the nine month period, EPS increased 24% to $1.60 from $1.29 in the prior-year period. The quarter and nine month results were driven by growth at Media Networks and Studio Entertainment. Media Networks benefitted from earlier recognition of previously deferred revenue at ESPN.
"We're very pleased with our strong third quarter, in which we grew revenues substantially and improved profitability across the majority of our businesses," said President and Chief Executive Officer Robert A. Iger. "Our performance underscores the value of sticking to a smart strategy even in tough times, of investing in the right people, and of focusing relentlessly on quality and innovation to drive growth in shareholder value."
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-month results for fiscal 2010 and 2009 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
EPS for the current quarter included a gain on the sale of the property ($43 million) and restructuring and impairment charges ($36 million), which collectively had no net impact on EPS. The gain is reported in "Other Income" in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The prior-year quarter included restructuring and impairment charges ($21 million) which had a $0.01 per share impact on EPS. Excluding these items, EPS increased 29% to $0.67 from $0.52 in the prior-year quarter.
Power Rangers
Power Rangers
In addition to the items discussed above, EPS for the current nine months included restructuring and impairment charges ($176 million), gains on the sales of investments in two television services in Europe ($75 million), and an accounting gain related to the acquisition of the Disney Stores in Japan ($22 million), which were recorded in the first half of the current year while the prior-year period included a gain on the sales of investments in two pay television services in Latin America ($114 million) and restructuring and impairment charges ($305 million) that were recorded in the first half of the prior year. The gains mentioned above are recorded in "Other Income" in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Excluding these items, EPS increased 19% to $1.62 from $1.36 in the prior-year nine months.
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-month segment operating results for fiscal 2010 and 2009 (in millions):
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 19% to $4.7 billion and segment operating income increased 43% to $1.9 billion. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $561 million to $1.7 billion for the quarter due to an increase at ESPN and to a lesser extent, at the worldwide Disney Channel. The increase at ESPN was primarily due to earlier recognition of previously deferred revenues related to annual programming commitments. During the quarter, ESPN recognized a net $344 million of previously deferred revenue compared to a net deferral of $37 million in the prior-year quarter. In addition to the timing of deferred revenue recognition, ESPN growth reflected higher affiliate and advertising revenue, partially offset by higher programming and production costs. Higher affiliate revenue was due to contractual rate increases, and subscriber growth, which was driven by the launch of a new network in the United Kingdom. The increase in advertising revenue was driven by higher sold inventory and increased rates. Higher programming and production costs reflected coverage of the World Cup and ESPN's new network in the United Kingdom. Improved operating results at the worldwide Disney Channel reflected higher affiliate revenues, driven by contractual rate increases and subscriber growth, and increased advertising revenue at the international channels.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $5 million to $209 million for the quarter primarily due to higher advertising revenues at the owned television stations and higher revenues from ABC Studios productions driven by international sales of , and and increased third party network license fees for . These increases were largely offset by higher programming costs at the ABC Television Network driven by programming write offs, unfavorable foreign currency impacts at our television distribution business, and higher pension and post-retirement medical expense. Advertising revenues at the ABC Television Network were comparable to the prior-year quarter as a decrease in sold inventory and lower ratings were largely offset by higher rates.
Castle
Lost
Ghost Whisperer
Criminal Minds
 
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 3% to $2.8 billion and segment operating income decreased 8% to $477 million. Results for the quarter were driven by decreases at our domestic parks and Disney Cruise Line, partially offset by improved results at our international operations.
Decreased operating income at our domestic parks was due to higher costs and lower attendance and hotel occupancy, partially offset by higher guest spending. Increased costs reflected labor cost inflation, higher pension and post-retirement medical expenses and costs for new guest offerings, including at Disneyland Resort, partially offset by lower volume-related costs. Decreased attendance in part reflected an unfavorable impact due to a shift in the timing of the Easter holiday period relative to our fiscal periods. Higher guest spending was primarily due to higher average ticket prices.
World of Color
Disney Cruise Line operating income decreased due to lower passenger cruise days, increased operating costs to support the fleet expansion and higher fuel costs.
Improved results at our international operations reflected the sale of a real estate property and increased guest spending, hotel occupancy and attendance at Disneyland Paris. Improved results also reflected an increase at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort driven by increased attendance, guest spending and hotel occupancy.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter increased 30% to $1.6 billion and segment operating income increased $135 million to $123 million. Higher operating income was primarily due to the strong worldwide performance of our key titles in theatrical markets and improvements in domestic home entertainment and worldwide television distribution.
Worldwide theatrical results reflected the strong performance of and in the current quarter, partially offset by higher film cost write-downs. The prior-year quarter included and .
Toy Story 3, Alice in Wonderland,
Iron Man 2
Up, Hannah Montana: The Movie
The Proposal
The increase at domestic home entertainment was primarily due to a lower production cost amortization rate and lower distribution and marketing expenses resulting from cost reduction initiatives. Key releases included in the current quarter versus, and in the prior-year quarter.
Alice in Wonderland
Bedtime Stories
Bolt
Confessions of a Shopaholic
The improvement at worldwide television distribution was driven by the timing of titles available in international markets.
 
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 19% to $606 million and segment operating income increased 22% to $117 million.
The increase in segment operating income was primarily due to an improvement at our retail business, driven by lower costs at The Disney Store North America, and an increase at Publishing driven by Marvel titles. Lower costs at The Disney Store North America were driven by lower cost of sales reflecting global procurement efficiencies.
At Merchandise Licensing, higher licensing revenue driven by the strength of and sales of Marvel merchandise was offset by a higher revenue share with the Studio Entertainment segment and operating costs and intangible asset amortization associated with Marvel. The increased revenue share with the Studio Entertainment segment was primarily due to growth from merchandise.
Toy Story
Toy Story
Interactive Media
Interactive Media revenues for the quarter increased 74% to $197 million and operating results improved from a loss of $75 million in the prior-year quarter to a loss of $65 million in the current quarter.
Improved operating results were primarily due to higher self-published video game sales at Disney Interactive Studios, reflecting the performance of current quarter releases, partially offset by higher marketing costs. The current quarter included the release of and whereas the prior-year quarter included the release of
Toy Story 3
Split Second,
Hannah Montana.
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Restructuring and Impairment Charges
The Company recorded $36 million of restructuring and impairment charges in the current quarter primarily related to the closure of five ESPN Zone locations.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
The decrease in interest expense for the quarter was driven by lower average debt balances. The decrease in interest and investment income was primarily due to a gain on the sale of an investment in the prior-year quarter.
 
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the current quarter was 35.6% compared to 37.8% in the prior-year quarter. The decrease was driven by favorable adjustments related to certain prior-year income tax matters.
Noncontrolling Interests
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests for the quarter increased $97 million to $174 million driven by higher operating results at ESPN. The net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined based on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
 
The increase in cash provided by operations for the nine months was driven by higher segment operating results.
The increase in capital expenditures for the nine months reflected higher construction progress payments on two new cruise ships, the expansion at Disney's California Adventure and Hong Kong Disneyland, and the construction of a Disney Vacation Club Resort in Hawaii, partially offset by the construction of broadcast and film production facilities in the prior-year nine month period.
 
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
Depreciation expense is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $2,443 million and $2,868 million attributable to Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort as of July 3, 2010 and October 3, 2009, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort totaled $526 million and $606 million as of July 3, 2010 and October 3, 2009, respectively.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding the impact of certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period. The Company believes that information about earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of the excluded items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate the impact of these items separately from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items:
Earnings per share excluding certain items
 
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
 
A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, August 10, 2010, at 4:30 PM EST/1:30 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through August 17, 2010 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 3, 2009 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and subsequent reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


