FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20110325170105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangement of Certain Officers
(e) On March 23, 2011, the shareholders of the Registrant approved the Registrant's 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2011 Plan") at the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders. The new plan increased the number of shares authorized under the Registrant's plans by 64.0 million shares. The terms of the 2011 Plan are substantially similar to the terms of the Registrant's Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, with the following changes:
 
 
 
 
The 2011 Plan was filed as Annex A to the Registrant's 2011 Proxy Statement, and the terms thereof are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
(a-b) The final results of voting on each of the matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders on March 23, 2011 are as follows.
 
Under the Registrant's Bylaws, each of the directors was elected, having received more votes "for" than "against."
 
Under the Registrant's Bylaws, the selection of the auditors was ratified, having received "for" votes from more than a majority of shares cast for, against or abstain.
 
Under the Registrant's Bylaws, the plan was approved, having received "for" votes from more than a majority of shares cast for, against or abstain.
 
Under the Registrant's Bylaws, the proposal was approved, having received "for" votes from more than a majority of shares cast for, against or abstain.
 
Under the Registrant's Bylaws, the proposal to hold advisory votes every year was approved, having received more than a majority of votes cast for one of the three options or abstain.
 
Under the Registrant's Bylaws, the proposal failed, having received "for" votes from less than a majority of shares cast for, against or abstain.
(d) On March 23, 2011, following the Registrant's annual meeting of shareholders, the Board adopted a resolution providing that an advisory vote on executive compensation would be held annually until the next required vote on the frequency of such votes.
 
Item 9.01 Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 25, 2011
 


