FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20110809161828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 9, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the fiscal quarter ended July 2, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
99.1    Press release of August 9, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 9, 2011

August 9, 2011
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for its third fiscal quarter and nine months ended July 2, 2011. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter increased 15% to $0.77, compared to $0.67 in the prior-year quarter. Diluted EPS for the nine-months ended July 2, 2011 was $1.93 compared to $1.60 in the prior-year period.
EPS for the current quarter included restructuring and impairment charges totaling $34 million primarily at Studio Entertainment. Excluding these charges, EPS for the quarter increased 16% to $0.78 compared to $0.67 in the prior-year quarter.
"Our third quarter demonstrates the continued strength of our Media Networks, including ESPN, Parks and Resorts and Consumer Products," said Robert A. Iger, President and CEO of The Walt Disney Company. "In these turbulent times, our company and its array of strong brands are well-positioned to deliver long-term shareholder value."
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-month results for fiscal 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the third quarter and nine-month segment operating results for fiscal 2011 and 2010 (in millions):
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 5% to $4.9 billion and segment operating income increased 11% to $2.1 billion. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $168 million to $1.8 billion for the quarter due to growth at ESPN and, to a lesser extent, higher equity income and an increase at the worldwide Disney Channels. These increases were partially offset by a decrease at ABC Family. The increase at ESPN reflected higher affiliate revenue driven by higher contractual rates and lower programming and production costs, partially offset by higher labor and marketing and sales costs. Recognition of
 
previously deferred revenue at ESPN was comparable to the prior-year period as ESPN achieved the same levels of programming commitments in the current quarter as in the prior-year quarter. Advertising revenue at ESPN was essentially flat as higher rates were offset by the absence of the FIFA World Cup and game seven of the NBA finals and lower ratings. Lower programming and production costs reflected the absence of programming costs for the FIFA World Cup. Additionally, ESPN benefited from a decrease in the cost of time for ESPN programming aired on the ABC Television Network. Increased equity income reflected decreased cricket programming costs at our ESPN Star Sports joint venture due to fewer cricket matches aired in the current quarter and also decreased losses from our UTV investment. The increase at the worldwide Disney Channels was driven by higher affiliate revenue due to higher contractual rates domestically and subscriber growth internationally, partially offset by higher costs including increases in programming and marketing and sales. The decrease at ABC Family reflected higher programming costs, partially offset by higher advertising revenue. Higher programming costs at both the worldwide Disney Channels and ABC Family reflected more episodes of original programming.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $41 million to $250 million driven by lower programming and production costs and higher advertising revenue at the ABC Television Network. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the cost charged to ESPN for programming aired on the ABC Television Network and lower advertising revenue at the owned television stations. Decreased programming and production costs reflected a lower cost mix of programming in primetime due to a shift in hours from original scripted programming to reality programming and the benefit of cost saving initiatives at news and daytime. Higher advertising revenues at the ABC Television Network reflected higher rates, partially offset by lower ratings, while decreased advertising revenue at the owned television stations was due to lower political advertising.
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 12% to $3.2 billion and segment operating income increased 9% to $519 million. Results for the quarter were driven by increases at our domestic parks and resorts, Disney Cruise Line, and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, partially offset by decreases at Disneyland Paris and Tokyo Disney Resort. The decrease at Tokyo Disney Resort was driven by the impact of the March 2011 earthquake in Japan which resulted in a temporary closure of the two parks and hotels and a continuing reduction in volume after reopening. Results at both our domestic and international parks and resorts reflected a favorable impact due to a shift in the timing of the Easter holiday relative to our fiscal periods.
Higher operating income at our domestic parks and resorts was driven by higher guest spending and, to a lesser extent, attendance, partially offset by increased costs. Increased guest spending reflected higher average ticket prices,
 
daily hotel room rates and food, beverage and merchandise spending. Increased costs reflected labor cost inflation, higher pension and healthcare costs, marketing and sales for new guest offerings, and expansion costs for Disney California Adventure at Disneyland Resort.
Higher operating income at Disney Cruise Line was due to increased passenger cruise ship days due to a full quarter of operations for the partially offset by the related incremental operating costs.
Disney Dream,
The improvement at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort reflected higher guest spending and attendance. Guest spending was driven by increased merchandise, food and beverage spending, and increased daily hotel room rates. The decrease at Disneyland Paris was due to a prior-year sale of real estate and increased costs which were driven by volume related costs, repairs and maintenance and labor cost inflation. These decreases were partially offset by increased guest spending which was due to higher average ticket prices and daily hotel room rates.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues were essentially flat at $1.6 billion and segment operating income decreased 60% to $49 million. Lower operating income was primarily due to a decrease in worldwide theatrical results, partially offset by lower film cost write-downs.
Lower theatrical results reflected the strong performance of and in the prior year compared to and in the current year. The decrease in revenues due to the performance of these titles was largely offset by an increase in revenues from the strong performance of which was released in the current quarter, compared to the ongoing performance of which was released in the second quarter of the prior year, and , which was released in the prior-year third quarter. This revenue increase was partially offset by higher costs for including production cost amortization and marketing and distribution costs. The majority of the marketing and distribution costs for were incurred in the second quarter of the prior year.
Toy Story 3
Iron Man 2
Cars 2
Thor
Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,
Alice in Wonderland,
Prince of Persia
Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides
Alice in Wonderland
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 13% to $685 million and segment operating income increased 32% to $155 million driven by an increase at Merchandise Licensing.
Improved Merchandise Licensing results reflected the strong performance of merchandise and higher revenue from Marvel properties. The increase in revenue from Marvel properties reflected the impact of acquisition accounting which reduced revenue recognition in the prior-year quarter. These increases were partially offset by a higher revenue share with the Studio Entertainment segment in the current quarter primarily due to the performance of merchandise.
Cars
Cars
 
Interactive Media
Interactive Media revenues for the quarter increased 27% to $251 million and segment operating results decreased by $21 million to a loss of $86 million. Lower segment operating results were driven by the inclusion of Playdom, including the impact of acquisition accounting, partially offset by an improvement at our console game business.
The improvement at our console games business reflected higher unit sales and lower marketing costs. The increase in unit sales was driven by the performance of and in the current quarter compared to and in the prior year. These increases were partially offset by higher cost of sales reflecting fees paid to the developer of .
Lego Pirates of the Caribbean
Cars 2
Toy Story 3
Split Second
Lego Pirates of the Caribbean
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
Corporate and unallocated shared expenses decreased from $119 million to $101 million driven by the timing of expenses.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the current-year quarter was 33.7% compared to 35.6% in the prior year quarter. The current quarter income tax rate reflects the benefit of an increase in the domestic production deduction rate.
Noncontrolling Interests
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased from $174 million to $187 million driven by improved results at ESPN and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, partially offset by lower results at Disneyland Paris. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined based on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.
 
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Cash provided by operations of $4.9 billion for the current nine month period increased 12% compared to the prior-year nine month period. The increase was primarily due to higher operating cash receipts driven by higher revenues at our Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Interactive Media and Consumer Products businesses and the timing of receivable collections at our Media Networks and Consumer Products businesses. These increases were partially offset by higher cash payments at Corporate and at our Parks and Resorts, Interactive Media and Consumer Products businesses. The increase in cash payments at Corporate was driven by higher contributions to our pension plans. The increase in cash payments at Parks and Resorts was driven by labor cost inflation, costs associated with our new cruise ship, the , higher marketing and sales expenses and expansion costs for Disney California Adventure at Disneyland Resort, while the increase in cash payments at Interactive Media reflects the inclusion of Playdom, which was acquired subsequent to the prior-year nine month period. The increase in cash payments at Consumer Products was primarily due to the acquisitions of The Disney Store Japan and Marvel.
Disney Dream
The increase in capital expenditures was primarily due to the final payment on our new cruise ship, the , theme park and resort expansions and new guest offerings at Walt Disney World Resort, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, and Disney California Adventure and the development of Shanghai Disney Resort.
Disney Dream
 
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
Depreciation expense is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $2,479 million and $2,586 million attributable to Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort as of July 2, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Disneyland Paris, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort totaled $706 million and $657 million as of July 2, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding the impact of certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period. The Company believes that information about earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of the excluded items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate the impact of these items separately from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items:
Earnings per share excluding certain items
 
 
Restructuring and impairment charges for the current nine months totaled $46 million and consist of severance and facilities costs totaling $36 million and a $10 million impairment charge related to the sale of assets. The impairment charge related to assets that had tax basis significantly in excess of the book value, resulting in a $44 million tax benefit on the restructuring and impairment charges. Restructuring and impairment charges for the prior-year nine months totaled $212 million and were related to organizational and cost structure initiatives primarily at our Studio Entertainment and Media Networks segments. Impairment charges were $126 million and consisted of write-offs of capitalized costs primarily related to abandoned film projects and the closure of a studio production facility and the closure of the ESPN Zones which was recorded in the third quarter of the prior year. Restructuring charges were $86 million and primarily reflected severance costs.
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, August 9, 2011, at 5:00 PM EST/2:00 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to The discussion will be available via replay through August 23, 2011 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors.
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 2, 2010 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and subsequent reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


