FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20110208160506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 8, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the fiscal quarter ended January 1, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
99.1    Press release of February 8, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 8, 2011

February 8, 2011
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for its first fiscal quarter ended January 1, 2011. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter were $0.68 compared to $0.44 in the prior-year quarter driven by growth at Media Networks, Studio Entertainment, Parks and Resorts and Consumer Products.
"We had an excellent first quarter, driven by strong creative content and our unique ability to leverage great entertainment across the many platforms, businesses and markets in which we operate," said Robert A. Iger, President and CEO. "With net income up 54%, it's a great start to a new fiscal year."
The following table summarizes the first quarter results for fiscal 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
EPS for the current quarter included $75 million of gains on sales of businesses, primarily Miramax, which are reported in Other Income in the Consolidated Statement of Income, and $12 million of restructuring and impairment charges. As discussed below, the tax effect of these items essentially offset the pretax benefit of $63 million and as a result, these items collectively had no impact on EPS. The prior-year quarter included restructuring and impairment charges and a gain on the sale of an investment in a television service in Europe, which together had a net adverse impact of $0.03 on EPS. Excluding these items,
 
EPS for the quarter increased 45% to $0.68 compared to $0.47 in the prior-year quarter.
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes first quarter segment operating results for fiscal 2011 and 2010 (in millions).
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 11% to $4.6 billion and segment operating income increased 47% to $1.1 billion. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $227 million to $771 million for the quarter due to growth at ESPN and the Disney Channels and higher equity income. The increase at ESPN reflected higher advertising and affiliate revenue, partially offset by higher programming costs. Advertising revenue growth was primarily due to higher rates and sold inventory while higher affiliate revenue was due to contractual rate increases. Higher programming and production costs were driven by the addition of college football Bowl Championship Series games, including a shift of the Rose Bowl from the ABC Television Network, and contractual increases for NFL programming. Higher operating income at the Disney Channels was due to increased affiliate and advertising revenue. Affiliate revenue growth reflected contractual rate increases domestically and subscriber growth internationally. Higher advertising revenue was driven by improved rates internationally. Increased equity income reflected higher affiliate and advertising revenue and lower programming and restructuring costs at A&E/Lifetime.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $115 million to $295 million driven by higher advertising revenue at the owned television stations, lower sports programming costs at the ABC Television Network due to the shift of the Rose Bowl to ESPN, lower news and daytime production costs and higher net affiliate fees. Advertising revenues at the ABC Television Network decreased slightly as the impact of lower ratings and the shift of the Rose Bowl to ESPN were largely offset by higher advertising rates.
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 8% to $2.9 billion and segment operating income increased 25% to $468 million. Results for the quarter reflected increases at our domestic and international parks and resorts, partially offset by a decrease at Disney Cruise Line.
Higher operating income at our domestic parks and resorts was driven by increased guest spending, attendance, and hotel occupancy partially offset by increased costs. The guest spending increase was primarily due to higher average ticket prices and increased food and beverage and merchandise spending. Increased costs reflected labor cost inflation and higher pension and healthcare costs.
Results at our international parks and resorts reflected increased guest spending, hotel occupancy and attendance. Increased guest spending was driven by higher food and beverage spending and average daily hotel room rates.
 
The decrease at Disney Cruise Line was driven by increased operating costs in connection with the January launch of the and the impact of scheduled dry-dock maintenance.
Disney Dream
 
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter were essentially flat at $1.9 billion and segment operating income increased 54% to $375 million. Higher operating income was primarily due to an increase in worldwide home entertainment and lower film cost write-downs.
The increase in worldwide home entertainment was primarily due to lower distribution and marketing expenses resulting from cost reduction initiatives and higher unit sales in international markets. The increase in unit sales reflected the strong performance of in the current quarter compared to in the prior-year quarter which had been released in fewer international markets.
Toy Story 3
Up
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 24% to $922 million and segment operating income increased 28% to $312 million.
The increase in segment operating income was primarily due to higher licensing revenue, driven by the strength of and the inclusion of Marvel, and comparable store sales growth and improved margins at the Disney Store North America. Improved margins at the Disney Store North America reflected benefits from a new global purchasing strategy and improved product offerings.
Toy Story
Interactive Media
Interactive Media revenues for the quarter increased 58% to $349 million and segment operating results decreased by $3 million to a loss of $13 million as higher sales of console games were more than offset by the inclusion of results for Playdom in the current quarter, which reflected the impact of acquisition accounting.
Higher console game sales reflected the strong performance of and compared to the prior-year quarter, which included and .
Epic Mickey
Toy Story 3
Sing It Pop Hits
Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
Corporate and unallocated shared expenses increased from $72 million to $112 million driven by the timing of expenses and higher compensation related costs.
Restructuring and Impairment Charges and Other Income
The Company recorded $12 million of restructuring and impairment charges in the current quarter and gains on the sale of Miramax and BASS totaling $75 million. The table below shows the pretax and after tax impact of these items.
 
Restructuring and impairment charges include an impairment related to assets that had tax basis significantly in excess of the book value resulting in a $31 million tax benefit on the restructuring and impairment charges. Our book value of Miramax included allocated goodwill totaling $217 million which is not tax deductible. Accordingly, the taxable gain on the sales of businesses exceeded the $75 million book gain resulting in the tax expense of $107 million.
In the prior year quarter, the Company recorded restructuring and impairment charges totaling $105 million and a gain on the sale of an investment in a television service in Europe of $27 million. The charges primarily related to organizational and cost structure initiatives at our Media Networks and Studio Entertainment segments including actions taken in connection with a change in Studio segment leadership. Restructuring charges of $66 million were primarily severance and related costs while impairment charges of $39 million consisted of write-offs of capitalized costs related to abandoned film projects.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
The decrease in interest expense for the quarter was primarily due to higher capitalized interest driven by higher capital spending. The decrease in interest and investment income reflected write downs of investments in the current quarter.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the quarter decreased to 35.4% from 36.2% in the prior-year quarter driven by benefits from the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters and from an increase in the domestic production deduction rate, partially offset by the net tax impact of the impairment charges and sale of businesses discussed above.
 
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
 
The increase in cash provided by operations was primarily due to higher operating cash receipts driven by the timing of receivable collections at our Media Networks and Consumer Products businesses and higher revenues at Parks and Resorts, partially offset by higher cash payments at Corporate and our Media Networks, Parks and Resorts and Consumer Products businesses. The increase in cash payments at Corporate and our Media Networks businesses was driven by the timing of accounts payable disbursements. The increase in cash payments at Parks and Resorts was driven by higher volumes, while the increase in cash payments at Consumer Products was driven by the operations of the Disney Store Japan and Marvel which were acquired subsequent to the prior-year quarter.
The increase in capital expenditures was primarily due to the final payment on our new cruise ship, the
Disney Dream.
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Depreciation expense by segment was as follows (in millions):
 
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $2,431 million and $2,586 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of January 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $590 million and $657 million as of January 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding the impact of certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating
 
income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period. The Company believes that information about earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of the excluded items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate the impact of these items separately from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items:
Earnings per share excluding certain items
 
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, February 8, 2011, at 5:00 PM EST/2:00 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through February 15, 2011 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 2, 2010 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and subsequent reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


