FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20110510161043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 10, 2011, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
99.1    Press release of May 10, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 10, 2011

May 10, 2011
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for its second fiscal quarter and six months ended April 2, 2011. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter increased 2% to $0.49, compared to $0.48 in the prior-year quarter. Diluted EPS for the six-months ended April 2, 2011 was $1.16 compared to $0.93 in the prior-year period.
"We are pleased with the underlying quality of our second quarter earnings," said Robert A. Iger, President and CEO of The Walt Disney Company. "There is great creative momentum throughout the company which gives us continued confidence in our ability to grow our businesses."
The following table summarizes the second quarter and six-month results for fiscal 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the second quarter and six-month segment operating results for fiscal 2011 and 2010 (in millions):
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 12% to $4.3 billion and segment operating income increased 17% to $1.5 billion. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $174 million to $1.4 billion for the quarter due to growth at ESPN, ABC Family and the Disney Channels, partially offset by lower equity income. The increase at ESPN reflected higher advertising and affiliate revenue, partially offset by higher programming costs. Advertising revenue growth was primarily due to higher rates and sold inventory while higher affiliate revenue was due to contractual rate increases. Higher programming and production costs were driven by the addition of college football Bowl Championship
 
Series games. Higher operating income at ABC Family was driven by lower programming and marketing costs due to the timing of airing of original programming, while increased operating income at the Disney Channels was due to increased affiliate revenue, partially offset by higher programming costs. Affiliate revenue growth at the Disney Channels reflected contractual rate increases domestically and subscriber growth internationally. Decreased equity income reflected the impact of programming costs for the Cricket World Cup at our ESPN Star Sports joint venture.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $44 million to $167 million driven by higher advertising revenue at the ABC Television Network and at the owned television stations, higher affiliate fees, increased sales of ABC Studios productions and lower programming and production costs at the ABC Television Network. Higher advertising revenues at the ABC Television Network were driven by increases in primetime and news, partially offset by a decrease in sports due to the shift of the BCS National Championship game to ESPN. Increased primetime and news advertising revenues reflected higher rates, partially offset by lower ratings. Higher sales of ABC Studios were driven by , and , partially offset by the absence of . Decreased programming and production costs reflected the benefit of cost saving initiatives at news and the shift of the BCS National Championship game to ESPN, partially offset by a higher cost mix of programming in primetime.
Criminal Minds
Army Wives
Castle
Lost
These increases were partially offset by the absence of recoveries of previously reserved receivables which occurred in the prior-year quarter and timing of marketing costs.
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 7% to $2.6 billion and segment operating income decreased 3% to $145 million. Results for the quarter were driven by decreases at Disney Cruise Line and Tokyo Disney Resort, partially offset by increases at our domestic and consolidated international parks and resorts. The decrease at Tokyo Disney Resort was driven by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan which resulted in a temporary suspension of operations at the resort. Results at both our domestic and international parks and resorts reflected an unfavorable impact due to a shift in the timing of the Easter holiday relative to our fiscal periods. As a result, the current quarter did not include any of the two week Easter holiday while the prior-year quarter included one week of the Easter holiday.
Lower operating income at Disney Cruise Line was primarily due to increased operating and promotional costs driven by the launch of our new cruise ship, the , in January 2011 and higher fuel and other operating costs for the existing fleet, partially offset by higher passenger cruise days from the .
Disney Dream
Disney Dream
Increased operating income at our domestic parks and resorts was driven by higher guest spending and hotel occupancy, partially offset by increased costs. Higher guest spending reflected increased average ticket prices and daily hotel
 
room rates. Increased costs reflected labor cost inflation, higher pension and healthcare costs and expansion costs for Disney California Adventure at Disneyland Resort.
Improved results at the consolidated international parks and resorts reflected higher attendance and hotel occupancy at Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and higher guest spending at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, partially offset by labor cost inflation at Disneyland Paris.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues for the quarter decreased 13% to $1.3 billion and segment operating income decreased 65% to $77 million. Lower operating income was primarily due to decreases in worldwide home entertainment and worldwide theatrical distribution and higher film cost write-downs.
The decrease in worldwide home entertainment was primarily due to lower unit sales reflecting the strong prior-year performance of and the animated version of in the domestic market and in international markets. These decreases were partially offset by higher net effective pricing due to increased Blu-ray format sales. Lower results in worldwide theatrical distribution reflected the performance of in the current quarter which also drove higher film cost write-downs. Current quarter theatrical distribution results also included and , primarily internationally, while the prior-year quarter included the worldwide release of .
Toy Story 1 and 2
Alice in Wonderland
Up
Mars Needs Moms
Tangled
Tron: Legacy
Alice in Wonderland
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues for the quarter increased 5% to $626 million and segment operating income increased 7% to $142 million as improvements at the Disney Store North America and Merchandise Licensing were offset by a decrease at Publishing.
The increase at the Disney Store North America was primarily due to comparable store sales growth and improved margins reflecting the strength of and merchandise. Improved Merchandise Licensing results reflected the strong performance of andmerchandise. The decrease at Publishing was driven by minimum guarantee shortfall recognition in the prior-year quarter.
Tangled
Toy Story
Cars
Tangled
Interactive Media
Interactive Media revenues for the quarter increased 3% to $159 million and segment operating income decreased by $60 million to a loss of $115 million. Decreased operating results were driven by the acquisition of Playdom including the impact of acquisition accounting, and higher mobile and virtual world product development costs.
 
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses
Corporate and unallocated shared expenses increased from $91 million to $122 million driven by the timing of expenses and higher compensation related costs.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
The decrease in interest expense for the quarter was primarily due to lower effective interest rates and lower average debt balances.
The increase in interest and investment income for the quarter was primarily due to gains on sales of investments.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the current quarter was 35.6% compared to 35.0% in the prior-year quarter. The prior-year quarter included a benefit from the favorable resolution of certain prior-year tax matters which was largely offset by a charge to reflect the loss of a tax benefit related to Medicare Part D subsidies as a result of the healthcare reform legislation.
Noncontrolling Interests
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased from $45 million to $68 million driven by improved operating results at ESPN and Hong Kong Disneyland. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined based on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.
 
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Cash provided by operations increased 23% to $3.1 billion for the current six month period compared to the prior-year six month period. The increase was primarily due to higher operating cash receipts driven by higher revenues at our Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Consumer Products and Interactive Media businesses and the timing of receivable collections at our Media Networks, Consumer Products and Studio Entertainment businesses. These increases were partially offset by higher cash payments at Corporate and our Parks and Resorts, Interactive Media and Consumer Products businesses. The increase in cash payments at Corporate was driven by higher income tax payments and the timing of contributions to our pension plans. The increase in cash payments at Parks and Resorts was driven by labor cost inflation, higher operating and promotional costs from the January launch of our new cruise ship, the , and expansion costs for Disney California Adventure at Disneyland Resort, while the increase in cash payments at Interactive Media reflects the inclusion of Playdom, which was acquired subsequent to the prior-year six month period. The increase in cash payments at Consumer Products was primarily due to the inclusion of The Disney Store Japan and Marvel.
Disney Dream
The increase in capital expenditures was primarily due to the final payment for the and spending on theme park and resort expansions and new guest offerings.
Disney Dream,
 
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
Depreciation expense is as follows (in millions):
 
 
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $2,514 million and $2,586 million attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland as of April 2, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland totaled $576 million and $657 million as of April 2, 2011 and October 2, 2010, respectively.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding the impact of certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period. The Company believes that information about earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of the excluded items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate the impact of these items separately from the impact of the operations of the business. The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items:
Earnings per share excluding certain items
 
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
Net borrowings
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus
Aggregate segment operating income
 
providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, May 10, 2011, at 5:00 PM EST/2:00 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through May 24, 2011 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 2, 2010 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and subsequent reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


