FILE:DIS/DIS-8K-20120508161825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 8, 2012, the Registrant issued a press release relating to its results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
99.1     Press release of May 8, 2012
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 8, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May 8, 2012
BURBANK, Calif.  The Walt Disney Company today reported earnings for its second fiscal quarter and six months ended March 31, 2012. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter increased 29% to $0.63 from $0.49 in the prior-year quarter. EPS for the current quarter included a gain related to an acquisition and restructuring and impairment charges, which together resulted in a net $0.05 benefit to EPS. Excluding these items, EPS for the quarter increased 18% to $0.58 compared to $0.49 in the prior-year quarter. Diluted EPS for the six-months ended March 31, 2012 was $1.43 compared to $1.16 in the prior-year period.
"With 18% adjusted growth in earnings per share, we're pleased with our second quarter performance," said Robert A. Iger, Disney Chairman and CEO. "We're incredibly optimistic about our future, given the strength of our core brands, Disney, Pixar, Marvel, ESPN, and ABC, and our extraordinary ability to grow franchises across our businesses, such as , which shattered domestic box office records with a $207.1 million opening weekend for a global performance of more than $702 million to date."
The Avengers
The following table summarizes the second quarter and six-month results for fiscal 2012 and 2011 (in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
EPS for the current quarter includes restructuring and impairment charges totaling $38 million and a $184 million non-cash gain on the Company's existing equity investment in UTV Software Communication Limited (UTV) which arose in connection with the acquisition of a controlling interest in UTV. The UTV gain was recorded in "Other Income" in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
EPS for the prior-year six months included gains on the sales of Miramax and BASS ($75 million) and restructuring and impairment charges ($12 million). On an after-tax basis, these items had a net negative impact on EPS of $0.01. Excluding these items and the current year items discussed above, EPS for the six-month period increased 18% to $1.38 compared to $1.17 in the prior-year period.
SEGMENT RESULTS
The following table summarizes the second quarter and six-month segment operating results for fiscal 2012 and 2011 (in millions):
 
 
Media Networks
Media Networks revenues for the quarter increased 9% to $4.7 billion and segment operating income increased 13% to $1.7 billion. The following table provides further detail of the Media Networks results (in millions):
 
Cable Networks
Operating income at Cable Networks increased $143 million to $1.5 billion for the quarter due to growth at ESPN and, to a lesser extent, at the domestic Disney Channels. The increase at ESPN was driven by higher affiliate and advertising revenue partially offset by higher programming and production costs. The increase in affiliate revenue was due to contractual rate increases and a reduction in revenue deferrals related to annual program commitments. During the quarter, ESPN deferred $190 million of revenue compared to $262 million in the prior year quarter. The decrease was due to a change in the provisions related to annual programming commitments in an affiliate contract. Advertising revenue growth was due to higher rates and a shift in the timing of Rose Bowl, Fiesta Bowl and NBA games relative to our fiscal period end. Higher programming and production costs were driven by the shift in the timing of college bowl and NBA games and higher contractual rates for college basketball programming. Higher operating income at the domestic Disney Channels was primarily due to increased affiliate revenue from contractual rate increases and higher sales of Disney Channel programs.
Broadcasting
Operating income at Broadcasting increased $62 million to $229 million due to lower programming and production costs and higher advertising revenue. Lower programming and production costs were due to the absence of costs for at the owned television stations and decreased daytime and news production costs at the ABC Television Network. Higher advertising revenues were due to increased primetime rates at the ABC Television Network partially offset by a decrease at the owned television stations.
The Oprah Winfrey Show
Parks and Resorts
Parks and Resorts revenues for the quarter increased 10% to $2.9 billion and segment operating income increased 53% to $222 million. Results for the quarter
 
were driven by increases at our domestic parks and resorts, Tokyo Disney Resort and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, partially offset by a decrease at Disneyland Paris.
Higher operating income at our domestic parks and resorts was driven by increased guest spending and attendance, partially offset by increased costs. Increased guest spending reflected higher average ticket prices, daily hotel room rates and food, beverage and merchandise spending. Higher costs were driven by labor cost inflation, resort expansion and new guest offerings, volume-related cost increases, and increased investments in systems infrastructure.
The increase at Tokyo Disney Resort reflected the loss of income in the prior-year quarter from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, which resulted in a temporary suspension of operations, and the collection of related business interruption insurance proceeds in the current-year quarter. The increase at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort was due to higher guest spending and attendance. The decrease at Disneyland Paris was due to lower attendance and labor cost inflation.
Studio Entertainment
Studio Entertainment revenues decreased 12% to $1.2 billion and segment operating income decreased $161 million to a loss of $84 million.
The decline in operating income was primarily due to lower worldwide theatrical results reflecting the performance of in the current quarter along with the related film cost write-down. Other titles in the current quarter include and while the prior year included , and .
John Carter
The Muppets
Beauty and the Beast 3D
Tangled
Tron: Legacy
Mars Needs Moms
Consumer Products
Consumer Products revenues increased 8% to $679 million and segment operating income increased 4% to $148 million. Higher operating income was primarily due to an increase at Merchandise Licensing partially offset by lower results at our retail business.
The increase at Merchandise Licensing was primarily due to higher minimum guarantee shortfall recognition in the current quarter and earned revenue growth driven by the performance of Minnie, Mickey, and Princess merchandise.
The Avengers
The decrease at our retail business was due to a decline in our North American business driven by decreased margins due to higher promotions.
Interactive Media
Interactive Media revenues for the quarter increased 13% to $179 million and segment operating results improved by $45 million to a loss of $70 million. Operating results were driven by an increase at our games business reflecting improved results from social and console games.
Social game results were driven by lower acquisition accounting impacts which had a higher adverse impact on the prior-year quarter and improved title performance in the current quarter.
 
Improved console game results were primarily due to lower product development costs, partially offset by a decline in console game sales, which reflected fewer titles in release in the current year. Lower product development costs reflected our ongoing shift from console games to social and other interactive platforms.
OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Other Income
On February 2, 2012 the Company increased its percentage ownership in UTV Software Communications Limited (UTV) from 50% to 93% through a delisting process governed by Indian law. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded a $184 million non-cash gain to adjust the book value of its existing interest in UTV to the estimated fair value.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was as follows (in millions):
 
The increase in interest expense for the quarter was driven by higher average debt balances, partially offset by lower effective interest rates.
Income Taxes
The effective income tax rate for the current quarter decreased to 34.6% compared to 35.6% in the prior-year quarter primarily due to an increase in earnings from foreign operations subject to tax at rates lower than the federal statutory income tax rate.
Noncontrolling Interests
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased from $68 million to $83 million due to improved operating results at ESPN and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort partially offset by lower performance at Disneyland Paris. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined based on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.
 
Cash Flow
Cash provided by operations and free cash flow were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Cash provided by operations increased 16% to $3.5 billion for the current six month period compared to $3.1 billion in the prior-year six month period. The increase was due to higher segment operating results and the timing of receivable collections, partially offset by increased television production and programming spending and higher income tax payments.
Capital Expenditures and Depreciation Expense
Investments in parks, resorts and other property were as follows (in millions):
 
Capital expenditures increased from $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion driven by an increase at Parks and Resorts, due to resort expansion and new guest offerings at Walt Disney World Resort and Disneyland Paris and construction costs at Shanghai Disney Resort, and an increase at Corporate driven by investments in facilities and information technology infrastructure.
 
Depreciation expense was as follows (in millions):
 
Borrowings
Total borrowings and net borrowings are detailed below (in millions):
 
 
The total borrowings shown above include $2,153 million and $2,311 million attributable to our consolidated international theme parks as of March 31, 2012 and October 1, 2011, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents attributable to our consolidated international theme parks totaled $634 million and $778 million as of March 31, 2012 and October 1, 2011, respectively.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This earnings release presents earnings per share excluding the impact of certain items, net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income, all of which are important financial measures for the Company but are not financial measures defined by GAAP.
 
These measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of earnings per share, borrowings, cash flow or net income as determined in accordance with GAAP. Net borrowings, free cash flow, and aggregate segment operating income as we have calculated them may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 The Company uses earnings per share excluding certain items to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period. The Company believes that information about earnings per share exclusive of these impacts is useful to investors, particularly where the impact of the excluded items is significant in relation to reported earnings, because the measure allows for comparability between periods of the operating performance of the Company's business and allows investors to evaluate the impact of these items separately from the impact of the operations of the business.
Earnings per share excluding certain items
The following table reconciles reported earnings per share to earnings per share excluding certain items:
 
 
 The Company believes that information about net borrowings provides investors with a useful perspective on our financial condition. Net borrowings reflect the subtraction of cash and cash equivalents from total borrowings. Since we earn interest income on our cash balances that offsets a portion of the interest expense we pay on our borrowings, net borrowings can be used as a measure to gauge net interest expense. In addition, a portion of our cash and cash equivalents is available to repay outstanding indebtedness when the indebtedness matures or when other circumstances arise. However, we may not
Net borrowings
 
immediately apply cash and cash equivalents to the reduction of debt, nor do we expect that we would use all of our available cash and cash equivalents to repay debt in the ordinary course of business.
 The Company uses free cash flow (cash provided by operations less investments in parks, resorts and other property), among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures. Management believes that information about free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to service debt, make strategic acquisitions and investments and pay dividends or repurchase shares.
Free cash flow
 The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Aggregate segment operating income
A reconciliation of segment operating income to net income is as follows (in millions):
 
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
In conjunction with this release, The Walt Disney Company will host a conference call today, May 8, 2012, at 5:00 PM EST/2:00 PM PST via a live Webcast. To access the Webcast go to . The discussion will be available via replay through May 15, 2012 at 7:00 PM EST/4:00 PM PST.
www.disney.com/investors
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied. Such differences may result from actions taken by the Company, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond the Company's control, including:
 
 
 
 
 
Such developments may affect travel and leisure businesses generally and may, among other things, affect:
 
 
 
 
 
Additional factors are set forth in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 1, 2011 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and subsequent reports.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


