Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Lockheed Martin Corporation December 31, 2002 Industry Considerations Defense Business Considerations In recent years, domestic and worldwide political and economic developments have had a significant impact on the markets for defense and advanced technology systems, products and services. Markets for defense and advanced technology systems during 2002 and in the foreseeable future will continue to be affected by the worldwide war against terrorism and threats created by the potential widespread availability of weapons of mass destruction. These realities have increased the need for greater attention to the security of our homeland and for better communication and interplay between law enforcement, civil government agencies and our military services. Our nations overall defense posture continues to move toward a more capabilities based structure, which creates the ability for a more flexible response with greater force mobility, stronger space capabilities, better missile defense and improved information systems security. The Presidents budget for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) for fiscal year 2003 and beyond reflects the transformation of the countrys national defense posture and responds to increased needs for homeland security and defeating terrorism. This is evidenced by budget increases for operational readiness and personnel needs, as well as for both procurement and research and development. While there is no assurance that the increased DoD budget levels will be approved by Congress, the current defense budget outlook is one of modest growth. However, the level of growth and the amount of the budget that will ultimately be allocated to the investment accounts (i.e., procurement, research and development) is unknown. Our broad mix of programs and capabilities gives us the ability to support the needs of the various agencies of the U.S. Government that require our products and services. Our product areas and programs include: missile defense; space intelligence; command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR); air mobility aircraft; and air power projection/precision strike capability. In terms of size and long term potential impact, two of our more important programs are the F/A 22 fighter aircraft program and the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter program. We are also represented in almost every aspect of land, sea, air and space based missile defense, including the PAC 3 and THAAD programs. In the areas of space intelligence and information superiority, we have leadership positions on the Milstar, Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) and Space Based Infrared System High (SBIRS H) programs, and in battle management command and control capabilities. In airlift, we have the C 130J program and are under contract to upgrade the C 5 strategic airlift aircraft. Many of these programs are large and require funding over several budget cycles. There are risks associated with these and other large, highly visible programs that are subject to appropriation by Congress which, because of their size, could be expected to become potential targets for reductions or extensions of their funding to pay for other programs. 40 In addition, the increase in emphasis on homeland security may increase demand for our capabilities in areas such as air traffic management, biohazard detection systems for postal equipment, information systems security and other technical systems solutions. Recent trends have indicated an increase in demand by federal and civil government agencies for upgrading and investing in new information technology systems. This is an area where we have continued to focus our resources. In prior years, companies in our industry had reacted to historically shrinking defense budgets for procurement, research and development by combining to maintain critical mass and achieve cost savings. More recently, we have focused our efforts on cost savings and improving efficiency, as well as generating cash to repay debt incurred during the period of consolidation. Through our consolidation activities, we have been able to pass along savings to our customers, mainly the DoD. Non U.S. defense budgets have generally been declining over the past decade. As a result, consolidation has also been occurring in the European aerospace industry, resulting in fewer but larger and more capable competitors, potentially resulting in an environment where there could be less demand abroad for products from U.S. companies. This type of environment could reduce opportunities for European partnerships and sales potential for U.S. exports. Other Business Considerations As a government contractor, we are subject to U.S. Government oversight. The Government may ask about and investigate our business practices and audit our compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Depending on the results of those audits and investigations, the Government could make claims against us. Under Government procurement regulations and practices, an indictment of a government contractor could result in that contractor being fined and or suspended from being able to bid on, or be awarded, new government contracts for a period of time. A conviction could result in debarment for a specific period of time. Similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. Although we cannot predict the outcome of these types of investigations and inquiries with certainty, based on current facts, we do not believe that any of the claims, audits or investigations pending against us are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Changes in government procurement policies and practices over the past several years, such as increases in the progress payment rate and the use of performance based payments, have had a positive effect on our financial position and cash flows. But we are still exposed to risks associated with U.S. Government contracting, including technological uncertainties and obsolescence, and having to depend on Congressional appropriation and allotment of funds each year. Many of our programs involve the development and application of state of the art technologies aimed at achieving challenging goals. As a result, setbacks, delays, cost overruns and failures can occur. In addition to our defense businesses, we also provide products and services to civil government customers, as well as commercial customers. Relative to civil government customers, in 2002, a joint venture in which we are participating was awarded the contract for Deepwater, a modernization program for the Coast Guards fleet and systems. Our role will be 41 to provide systems integration and engineering; C4ISR; air assets; and integrated logistics support. In addition, we provide products and services to agencies such as the U.S. Postal Service, the Federal Aviation Administration, NASA and the Transportation Security Administration. Although our lines of business in civil government and commercial markets are not dependent on defense budgets, they share many of the same risks as our defense businesses, as well as other risks unique to their particular marketplaces. These risks may include development of competing products, technological feasibility and product obsolescence. With respect to our work with NASA, we provide products and services for the Space Shuttle program mainly through our Space Systems and Technology Services business segments. In 2002, work for NASA accounted for approximately 6% of our consolidated net sales, of which approximately one half was related to the Space Shuttle program. We also have a 50% equity interest in United Space Alliance, LLC, which provides ground processing and other operational services to the Space Shuttle program. We are working with the Columbia Accident Investigation Board and NASA in the investigation of the February 2003 accident involving the Space Shuttle Columbia. This tragic event did not impact our results of operations for 2002, and it is too early to determine whether the accident will affect our business operations for 2003 and beyond. We have entered into various joint venture, teaming and other business arrangements to help support our portfolio of products and services in commercial space as well as other lines of business. For additional information about these ventures, see the discussion in the next section concerning our Commercial Space Business, the discussion on page 51 captioned Write Off and Restructuring of Investment in Astrolink, and the discussion on page 68 relating to Space Imaging under the caption Capital Structure and Resources. These arrangements generally include a formal plan for funding the business which usually requires commitments from the partners, and may require the business to get financing from other sources as well. To the extent the business is unable to get financing from other sources, the business partners, ourselves included, would be required to look at alternatives for funding the business. Some of these business arrangements include foreign partners. The conduct of international business introduces other risks into our operations, including changing economic conditions, fluctuations in relative currency values, regulation by foreign countries and the potential for unanticipated cost increases resulting from the possible deterioration of political relations. The nature of our international business also makes us subject to the export control regulations of the U.S. Department of State and the Department of Commerce. If these regulations are violated, it can result in monetary penalties and denial of export privileges. We are currently unaware of any violations of export control regulations which are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Commercial Space Business The launch vehicle industry has continued to be affected by low demand for products and services due mainly to low demand for satellites as a result of excess capacity in the telecommunications industry. Concerns over uncertainty in the economy have made it difficult for many ventures, especially telecommunications and other high technology companies, to obtain funding from capital markets. Reduced demand and increased competition have also 42 caused pricing pressures in the launch vehicle market. This comes at a time when we have been making significant investments in the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (Atlas V) program, our next generation launch vehicle. This program has required investment of funds for research and development, start up and other nonrecurring costs, and launch facilities. Some of these expenditures have been funded under an agreement with the U.S. Government. We had our first Atlas V launch in August 2002, successfully delivering a Eutelsat satellite into orbit. Orders to date for the Atlas V launch vehicle have been lower than expected and at lower prices. Similar to the launch vehicle market, the commercial satellite market is experiencing pricing pressures due to excess capacity and lower demand. Satellite demand also has been impacted by the business difficulties encountered by some companies in the commercial satellite services industry which have resulted in reduced access to capital and a reduction in the total market size in the near term. We expect to continue to reduce costs in our commercial satellite manufacturing business while keeping our focus on providing a reliable product. In 1992, we entered into a joint venture with two Russian government owned space firms to form Lockheed Khrunichev Energia International, Inc. (LKEI). We own 51% of LKEI. LKEI has exclusive rights to market launches of commercial, non Russian origin space payloads on the Proton family of rockets from a launch site in Kazakhstan. In 1995, another joint venture was formed, International Launch Services (ILS), with Lockheed Martin and LKEI each holding a 50% ownership. ILS was formed to market commercial Atlas and Proton launch services around the world. We consolidate the results of operations of LKEI and ILS into our financial statements. Contracts for launch services usually require substantial advances from the customer before the launch. At the end of 2002, $412 million of advances received from customers for Proton launch services not yet provided was included as a liability on our balance sheet in the caption Customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred. A sizable percentage of the advances we receive from customers for Proton launch services are sent to Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center (Khrunichev), the manufacturer of the launch vehicle and provider of the related launch services in Russia. If a contracted launch service is not provided, a sizeable percentage of the related advance would have to be refunded to the customer. In addition, we have sent advances to Khrunichev for launches we purchased which have not yet been assigned to customers. The advances sent to Khrunichev are included on our balance sheet in inventories. In the fourth quarter of 2002, we entered into an agreement with Khrunichev to eliminate the requirement to provide launch services for our prior advances that were not associated with specific customer launch orders in exchange for an arrangement to reduce future launch payments from us to Khrunichev, contingent on the receipt of new orders as well as a minimum number of actual launches each year. Due to the continuing overcapacity in the launch vehicle market, we do not expect to recover amounts previously advanced for an extended period of time. In addition, we assessed the likelihood of customer terminations for convenience for launches currently under contract. A contract termination would require Khrunichev to refund a portion of the advances we have made to them and would require us to refund a portion of the advances received from the customer. As a result of these factors, we reduced the carrying value of our advances to Khrunichev and recognized a charge, net of state income tax benefits, of $173 million in the fourth quarter of 2002. The charge reduced net earnings by $112 million ($0.25 per share). At year end 2002, $391 million of payments to Khrunichev were included in inventories. Our ability to realize the remaining amounts may be affected by Khrunichevs ability to provide the 43 launch services and the political environment in Russia. Through the end of 2002, launch services through LKEI and ILS have been provided according to contract terms. The Corporation has entered into an agreement with RD AMROSS, a joint venture of the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation and the Russian firm NPO Energomash, for the development and purchase, subject to certain conditions, of RD 180 booster engines for use in the Corporations Atlas launch vehicles. Terms of the agreement call for payments to be made to RD AMROSS upon the achievement of certain milestones in the development and manufacturing processes. Approximately $61 million of payments made under this agreement for engines not yet delivered were included in the Corporations inventories at December 31, 2002. Critical Accounting Policies Contract Accounting / Revenue Recognition A large part of our business is derived from long term development and production contracts which we account for consistent with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) audit and accounting guide, Audits of Federal Government Contractors, and the AICPAs Statement of Position No. 81 1, Accounting for Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts. We consider the nature of these contracts and the types of products and services provided when we determine the proper accounting for a particular contract. Generally, we record long term fixed price contracts on a percentage of completion basis using units of delivery as the basis to measure progress toward completing the contract and recognizing revenue. For certain other long term fixed price contracts which, along with other factors, require us to deliver minimal quantities over a longer period of time or to perform a substantial level of development effort in comparison to the total value of the contract, revenues are recorded when we achieve performance milestones or using the cost to cost method of accounting. Under the cost to cost method of accounting, we recognize revenue based on the ratio of costs incurred to our estimate of total costs at completion. We record sales under cost reimbursement type contracts as we incur the costs. As a general rule, we recognize sales and profits earlier in a production cycle when we use the cost to cost and milestone methods of percentage of completion accounting versus when we use the units of delivery method. We have accounting policies in place to address these and other complex issues in accounting for long term contracts. For other information on accounting policies we have in place for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under Sales and earnings in Note 1 to the financial statements. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Contract costs include material, labor and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. For contract change orders, claims or similar items, we apply judgment in estimating the amounts and assessing the potential for realization. These amounts are only included in contract value when they can be reliably estimated and realization is considered probable. Incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts are 44 considered in estimating sales and profit rates, and are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Estimates of award fees are also a significant factor in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Products and services provided under long term development and production contracts make up a large portion of our business, and therefore the amounts we record in our financial statements using contract accounting methods and cost accounting standards are material. We follow U.S. Government procurement and accounting standards in assessing the allowability and the allocability of costs to contracts. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. We closely monitor compliance with and the consistent application of our critical accounting policies related to contract accounting. Business segment personnel perform reviews of the status of contracts through periodic contract status and performance reviews. When adjustments in estimated contract revenues or costs are required, any changes from prior estimates are generally included in earnings in the current period. Also, regular and recurring evaluations of contract cost, scheduling and technical matters are performed by management personnel who are independent from the business segment performing work under the contract. Costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government are scrutinized for compliance with regulatory standards by our personnel, and are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. Post Retirement Benefit Plans Most employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense we record for our employee benefit plans. This is particularly true with income or expense for qualified defined benefit plans (pension plans) because those calculations are sensitive to changes in several key economic assumptions and workforce demographics. We account for our pension plans using Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (FAS 87). Those rules require that the amounts we record, including the income or expense for the plans, be computed using actuarial valuations. These valuations include many assumptions, including assumptions we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions we use. The key year end assumptions used to estimate pension income or expense for the following fiscal year are the discount rate, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the rate of increase in future compensation levels. We use judgment in selecting these assumptions each year because we have to consider not only current market conditions, but also make judgments about future market trends, changes in interest rates and equity market performance. We also have to consider factors like the timing and amounts of expected contributions to the plans and benefit payments to plan participants. An actual example of how changes in these assumptions can affect our financial statements occurred in 2002. Based on our review of market trends, actual returns on plan assets, and other factors, we lowered the expected long term rate of return on plan assets for our year end 2002 actuarial calculations to 8.5%, versus 9.5% for 2001. This rate is applied to a calculated value of 45 plan assets which results in an amount that is included in pension income or expense in the following year. We also lowered the discount rate assumption to 6.75% at year end 2002, versus 7.25% used for 2001. These changes, together with other factors such as the effects of the actual return on plan assets, result in our projecting a substantial amount of pension expense for 2003, compared to recording pension income in 2002. Also, at the end of 2002, we recorded an adjustment in the stockholders equity section of our balance sheet to reflect a minimum pension liability for most of our pension plans. This adjustment is calculated on a plan by plan basis, and is determined by comparing the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for the plan to the fair value of that plans assets. The amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets, after adjusting for previously recorded accrued or prepaid pension cost for the plan, must be recorded as a minimum pension liability, with a corresponding increase in an intangible asset, if appropriate, and a reduction to stockholders equity, consistent with FAS 87. The noncash after tax adjustment related to our recording of a minimum pension liability in 2002 did not impact earnings, but reduced our stockholders equity by $1.5 billion. This adjustment is computed at each year end and could potentially reverse in the future if financial markets improve and interest rates increase, or could potentially increase if financial market performance and interest rates continue to decline. The total funding requirement for our pension plans under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) in 2002 was $87 million. CAS is a major factor in determining our funding requirements and governs the extent to which our pension costs are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the U.S. Government. For 2003, we expect our funding requirements under CAS to increase substantially. This amount is recovered over time through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts, and therefore is recognized in our net sales. Also in 2003, funding in addition to the amount calculated under CAS will likely be required under Internal Revenue Code rules. Any additional amounts computed under those rules are considered to be prepayments under the CAS rules, and therefore are recorded on our balance sheet and recovered in future periods. Impairment of Investments in Equity Securities We have investments in equity securities of several companies, some of which are publicly traded entities. We review these investments each quarter to evaluate our ability to recover our investments. We record an impairment charge if the fair value of the investment has declined below our carrying value, and that decline is viewed to be other than temporary. For publicly traded companies, the fair value of the equity securities is determined by multiplying the number of shares we own by the stock price, as well as by computing estimates of the fair values based on a variety of valuation methods (e.g., discounted cash flow analyses, sum of the parts valuations and trading multiples). For those companies that are not publicly traded, we prepare discounted cash flow analyses to compute an estimate of the fair value of the investment. Since we generally do not have access to internal projections of those companies, we prepare projections based on information that is publicly available. We use judgment in computing the fair value based on our evaluation of the investee and establishing an appropriate discount rate and terminal value to apply in the calculations. In selecting these and other assumptions, we consider the investees ability to execute their business plan successfully, 46 including their ability to obtain required funding, general market conditions, and industry considerations specific to their business. It is likely that we could compute a materially different fair value for an investment if different assumptions were used or if circumstances were to change. Many of our investments are concentrated in the satellite services and telecommunications industries, including Intelsat, Ltd. (Intelsat), Inmarsat Ventures plc (Inmarsat) and New Skies Satellites, N.V. (New Skies). These industries continue to be affected by the capital markets, excess satellite capacity and competition from other kinds of telecommunications services, including fiber optic cable and other wireless communication technologies. This has been evidenced by recent bankruptcy filings by some telecommunications companies. Intelsat, Inmarsat and New Skies are also subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). FCC decisions and policies have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on these companies. In 2000, Congress passed the Open Market Reorganization for the Betterment of International Telecommunications Act (the ORBIT Act) that, among other things, established deadlines for Intelsat and Inmarsat to complete their initial public offerings. Under the ORBIT Act, Intelsat and Inmarsat were required to complete their initial public offerings by December 31, 2002. However, Inmarsat has received an extension from the FCC until June 30, 2003. In October 2002, legislation was enacted which extends the deadline for Intelsat to complete its initial public offering to December 31, 2003, or June 30, 2004 if approved by the FCC. Unless there are changes in the current trends and market conditions in the telecommunications industry, as well as in the capital markets, Intelsat and Inmarsat may have difficulty in completing their initial public offerings by the ORBIT Act deadlines. If those deadlines are not met or extended by further amendments to the legislation, the FCC may limit access by U.S. users to the satellite capacity of the privatized entities for some services. If this were to occur, the value of our investments could be adversely affected. In the fourth quarter 2002, as part of the ongoing evaluation of our ability to recover our investments, we calculated an estimate of the current fair values of our investments in Intelsat and Inmarsat. For our investment in New Skies, we calculated the current fair value based on the publicly traded stock price and, for analysis purposes, also calculated an estimate of the fair value using discounted cash flow analyses. In each case, the fair value of our investment was less than our carrying amount. We then made an assessment as to whether the decline in the value of these investments was other than temporary. We reviewed investment analyst reports to the extent they were available. We also assessed future business prospects for the companies and reviewed information regarding market and industry trends for their businesses. 47 Based on our evaluation, including the factors discussed above, we determined that the decline in values of these investments was other than temporary, and recorded impairment charges related to these investments in the fourth quarter of 2002. The impact of the unusual charges on operating profit (earnings from continuing operations before interest and taxes), net earnings and diluted earnings per share was as follows: (In millions) Operating Profit Net Earnings Earnings per Diluted Share Write down of investment in: Intelsat $ (572 ) $ (371 ) $ (0.82 ) Inmarsat (101 ) (66 ) (0.15 ) New Skies (103 ) (67 ) (0.15 ) Total write down of telecommunications investments $ (776 ) $ (504 ) $ (1.12 ) Environmental Liabilities We record financial statement accruals for environmental matters in the period that it becomes probable that a liability has been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated (see the discussion under Environmental matters in Note 1 to the financial statements). Judgment is required when we develop assumptions and estimate costs expected to be incurred for environmental remediation activities due to, along with other factors, difficulties in assessing the extent of environmental remediation to be performed, complex environmental regulations and remediation technologies, and agreements between potentially responsible parties (PRPs) to share in the cost of remediation as discussed below. We enter into agreements (e.g., administrative orders, consent decrees) which document the extent of our obligation. These agreements usually cover several years which makes estimating the costs more judgmental due, for example, to changing remediation technologies. To determine total costs at clean up sites, we have to assess the appropriate technology to be used to accomplish the remediation, as well as continually evolving regulatory environmental standards. We consider these factors in our estimates of the timing and amount of any future costs that may be required for remedial actions. Given the level of judgment and estimation which has to occur as described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if different assumptions were used or if circumstances were to change (e.g., a change in environmental standards). Under agreements reached with the U.S. Government in 1990 and 2000, some of the amounts we spend for groundwater treatment and soil remediation are allocated to our operations as general and administrative costs. Under existing government regulations, these and other environmental expenditures relating to our U.S. Government businesses, after deducting any recoveries from insurance or other PRPs, are allowable in establishing prices of our products and services. As a result, a substantial amount of the expenditures we incur are being included in our sales and cost of sales according to U.S. Government agreement or regulation. At the end of 2002 and 2001, the total amount of liabilities recorded on our balance sheet for environmental matters was $445 million and $300 million, respectively. We have recorded an asset for the portion of environmental costs that are probable of future recovery in pricing of our 48 products and services for U.S. Government businesses. The amount that is expected to be allocated to our commercial businesses has been expensed through cost of sales. The amounts we record do not reflect the fact that we may recover some of the environmental costs we have incurred through insurance or from other PRPs, which we are pursuing as required by agreement and U.S. Government regulation. Any recoveries we receive would reduce the allocated amounts included in our future U.S. Government sales and cost of sales. Exit From the Global Telecommunications Services Business In December 2001, we announced that we would exit our global telecommunications services business as a result of continuing overcapacity in the telecommunications industry and weakening business and economic conditions in Latin America. We also decided in the fourth quarter of 2001 not to provide further funding to Astrolink International, LLC (Astrolink) and, mainly due to Astrolinks inability to obtain additional funding from other sources, wrote off our investment in Astrolink. We recorded unusual charges, net of state income tax benefits, of approximately $2.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2001 related to these actions. The charges reduced net earnings by about $1.7 billion ($3.98 per diluted share). The global telecommunications services businesses included the operations of COMSAT Corporation. We completed our merger with COMSAT Corporation in August 2000. The operations of COMSAT were included in the results of our operations since August 1, 2000. The total purchase price for COMSAT was approximately $2.6 billion. The COMSAT transaction was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, where the purchase price was allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values. These allocations included adjustments totaling approximately $2.1 billion to record investments in equity securities (i.e., Intelsat, Inmarsat and New Skies) at fair value, and goodwill. The global telecommunications businesses that we retained included the Systems & Technology line of business and the COMSAT General telecommunications business unit, which were realigned with the Space Systems segment, and Enterprise Solutions U.S., which was realigned with the Technology Services segment. The equity investments retained, including Intelsat, Inmarsat and New Skies, ACeS International, Ltd. (ACeS), Americom Asia Pacific, LLC and Astrolink, had a combined carrying value of about $900 million at December 31, 2002. The following discussion describes the components of the $2.0 billion in charges based on their classification in our financial statements. Discontinued Operations The $2.0 billion in charges in 2001 included an amount, net of state income tax benefits, of approximately $1.4 billion related to global telecommunications services businesses held for sale and exit costs for the elimination of the administrative function supporting the global telecommunications businesses and investments. These charges, which reduced net earnings for the year by $1.3 billion ($3.09 per diluted share) were included in discontinued operations in our statement of operations. The status of the businesses held for sale is as follows: Satellite Services businesses In 2002, we completed the sale of COMSAT Mobile Communications and COMSAT World Systems. These transactions did not have a 49 material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. We also reached an agreement to sell Lockheed Martin Intersputnik (LMI) in the third quarter of 2002. This transaction is expected to close in 2003, subject to regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions, including a requirement that we move the LMI satellite to another orbital slot. The transaction is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. COMSAT International In 2002, we completed the sale of an 81% ownership interest in COMSAT International. The transaction did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Of the $1.4 billion of charges included in discontinued operations, about $1.2 billion related to impairment of goodwill. The goodwill was recorded when we acquired COMSAT as discussed above. Approximately $170 million of the $1.4 billion related to impairment of some of the long lived assets employed by foreign businesses held for sale, mainly COMSAT International. The rest of the charge related to costs associated with elimination of administrative functions, including severance and facilities. Effective January 1, 2001, we adopted FAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Since the operating businesses we identified for divestiture met the requirements of FAS 144 to be classified as discontinued operations, their results of operations, as well as the impairment and other charges related to the decision to exit the businesses, are classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented, and have been excluded from business segment information. Also, the assets and liabilities of these businesses have been shown separately in the balance sheet as being held for sale. Depreciation and amortization expense were not recorded for these businesses after the date they were classified as held for sale consistent with FAS 144. LMI is recorded at estimated fair value less cost to sell at December 31, 2002. Changes in the estimated fair value of LMI will be recorded in the future if appropriate. We also completed the sale of Lockheed Martin IMS Corporation (IMS), a wholly owned subsidiary, for $825 million in cash in August 2001. This transaction resulted in a gain, net of state income taxes, of $476 million and increased net earnings by $309 million ($0.71 per diluted share). The results of IMSs operations for all periods presented, as well as the gain on the sale, are classified as discontinued operations in accordance with FAS 144. Net sales recorded in 2001 up to the effective date of the divestiture totaled approximately $355 million, excluding intercompany sales. The transaction generated net cash proceeds of approximately $560 million after related transaction costs and federal and state income tax payments. Other Charges Related to Global Telecommunications The charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 also included unusual charges, net of state income tax benefits, of approximately $132 million related to commitments to and impairment in the values of investments in satellite joint ventures, primarily ACeS and Americom Asia Pacific. We had previously recorded unusual charges related to other than temporary declines in the values of these investments as follows: in the first quarter of 2001, a charge, net of state income tax benefits, of $100 million was recorded related to Americom Asia Pacific; and in the fourth 50 quarter of 2000, a charge, net of state income tax benefits, of $117 million was recorded related to ACeS (see Note 8 to the financial statements for more discussion of these charges). In addition, as part of the $2.0 billion in charges recorded in the fourth quarter 2001, about $43 million related to severance, facilities costs and impairment of certain fixed assets associated with the business units we retained. These unusual charges reduced net earnings for 2001 by $117 million ($0.27 per diluted share). Write off and Restructuring of Investment in Astrolink Through 2001, we had invested $400 million in Astrolink, a joint venture that planned to develop a broad band satellite system. In the fourth quarter of 2001, in light of market conditions affecting the telecommunications industry and the difficulty Astrolink was having raising external capital, we decided not to make an additional equity investment in Astrolink and wrote off our 31% equity interest. As a result, we recorded an unusual charge of $367 million, net of state income tax benefits, in other income and expenses to reflect the other than temporary decline in the value of our Astrolink investment. We also recorded charges of approximately $20 million, net of state income tax benefits, in cost of sales for certain other costs related to Astrolink. On a combined basis, these charges reduced net earnings for 2001 by approximately $267 million ($0.62 per diluted share). After several months of negotiation, in January 2003, we finalized an agreement with Astrolinks other members to restructure Astrolink. As part of the transaction, Liberty Satellite & Technology, a subsidiary of Liberty Media Corporation, may acquire substantially all of Astrolinks assets and pursue a business plan to build a one or two satellite system. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval, financing and other closing conditions. Upon closing of the asset transfer, we would continue to provide launch services and be a satellite vendor, but would retain only a limited indirect equity interest in the restructured business. The restructuring also entails the settlement of existing claims related to termination of Astrolinks major procurement contracts. As part of that settlement, if Liberty Satellite & Technology does not elect to proceed with the new system, we would acquire the remaining assets of Astrolink, including work in process under our procurement contracts with Astrolink. Certain other of the members also would retain their work in process. Under either scenario, the restructuring is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Other Divestiture Activities In January 2001, we completed the divestiture of two business units in the environmental management line of business. The impact of these divestitures was not material to our 2001 results of operations, cash flows or financial position due to the effects of unusual impairment losses recorded in prior years related to these business units. Those losses were included in other income and expenses as part of other portfolio shaping activities in the respective years. In November 2000, we sold our Aerospace Electronics Systems (AES) businesses for $1.67 billion in cash (the AES Transaction). We recorded an unusual loss, including state income taxes, of $598 million related to this transaction which is included in other income and expenses. The loss reduced net earnings for 2000 by $878 million ($2.18 per diluted share). Although the AES Transaction resulted in a pretax loss for book purposes, it resulted in a gain for tax purposes 51 primarily because goodwill related to the AES businesses was not included in the tax basis of the net assets of AES. Therefore, we were required to make state and federal income tax payments associated with the divestiture. The AES Transaction generated net cash proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion after related transaction costs and federal and state income tax payments. Net sales included in the year 2000 related to the AES businesses totaled approximately $655 million, excluding intercompany sales. In September 2000, we sold Lockheed Martin Control Systems (Control Systems) for $510 million in cash. This transaction resulted in the recognition of an unusual gain, net of state income taxes, of $302 million which is reflected in other income and expenses. The gain increased net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2000 by $180 million ($0.45 per diluted share). This transaction generated net cash proceeds of $350 million after related transaction costs and federal and state income tax payments. Net sales for the first nine months of 2000 related to Control Systems totaled approximately $215 million, excluding intercompany sales. In September 2000, we sold approximately one third of our interest in Inmarsat for $164 million. The investment in Inmarsat was acquired as part of the merger with COMSAT. As a result of the transaction, our interest in Inmarsat was reduced from approximately 22% to 14%. The sale of shares in Inmarsat did not impact our results of operations. The transaction generated net cash proceeds of about $115 million after transaction costs and federal and state income tax payments. On an ongoing basis, we will continue to explore the sale of various non core businesses, passive equity investments and surplus real estate. If we were to decide to sell any such holdings or real estate, the resulting gains, if any, would be recorded when the transactions are consummated and losses, if any, would be recorded when they are probable and estimable. We also continue to review our businesses on an ongoing basis to identify ways to improve organizational effectiveness and performance, and to focus on our core business strategy. Results of Operations Since our operating cycle is long term and involves many types of development and production contracts with varying production delivery schedules, the results of operations of a particular year, or year to year comparisons of recorded sales and profits, may not be indicative of future operating results. The following discussions of comparative results among periods should be viewed in this context. Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted FAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, as discussed more fully in Note 1 of the notes to the financial statements. We completed the initial step of the goodwill impairment test required by the new rules and concluded that no adjustment to the balance of goodwill at the date we adopted the standard was required. We also reassessed the estimated remaining useful lives of other intangible assets as part of our adoption of the Statement. As a result of that review, we extended the estimated remaining useful life of the intangible asset related to our F 16 fighter aircraft program from six to ten years, effective January 1, 2002. The most important factors considered in making this determination included the existing backlog for F 16 deliveries which extends production beyond the life we originally anticipated, and our outlook for potential new orders for the F 16 during the next ten years. Relative to new orders, we expect that the F 16 will continue to be the dominant fighter aircraft 52 available for many countries in the international market until the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter is available. As a result of the adoption, amortization expense for goodwill and certain other intangibles for 2002 was lower compared to 2001 by $274 million, and was lower compared to 2000 by $297 million. Continuing Operations For 2002, net sales were $26.6 billion, an 11% increase over 2001 sales. Sales for 2001 were $24.0 billion, a decrease of 2% compared to 2000. Sales increased in all segments during 2002 as compared to 2001. Sales growth in our Aeronautics and Technology Services segments during 2001 were more than offset by decreases in the remaining business segments as compared to 2000. Adjusting for acquisitions and divestitures, sales would have remained comparable when comparing 2001 to 2000. The U.S. Government is our largest customer, accounting for about 80% of our sales for 2002 compared to 78% in 2001 and 72% in 2000. 53 Our results of operations for 2002, 2001 and 2000 included the effects of various unusual items. The impact of these items on operating profit (earnings from continuing operations before interest and taxes), net earnings (loss) and amounts per diluted share is as follows: Effects of unusual items: (In millions) Operating (Loss) Profit Net (Loss) Earnings (Loss) Earnings per Diluted Share Year ended December 31, 2002 Continuing operations Write down of telecommunications investments $ (776 ) $ (504 ) $ (1.12 ) Charge related to Russian advances (173 ) (112 ) (0.25 ) Write down of investment in Space Imaging and charge related to recording of guarantee (163 ) (106 ) (0.23 ) R&D tax credit settlement 90 0.20 $ (1,112 ) $ (632 ) $ (1.40 ) Year ended December 31, 2001 Continuing operations Write off of investment in Astrolink and related costs $ (387 ) $ (267 ) $ (0.62 ) Write down of investment in Loral Space (361 ) (235 ) (0.54 ) Other charges related to global telecommunications (176 ) (117 ) (0.27 ) Impairment charge related to Americom Asia Pacific (100 ) (65 ) (0.15 ) Loss on early repayment of debt (55 ) (36 ) (0.08 ) Other portfolio shaping activities (5 ) (3 ) (0.01 ) Gain on sale of surplus real estate 111 72 0.17 (973 ) (651 ) (1.50 ) Discontinued operations Charges related to discontinued businesses, net of IMS gain (1,027 ) (2.38 ) $ (973 ) $ (1,678 ) $ (3.88 ) Year ended December 31, 2000 Continuing operations Loss related to AES Transaction $ (598 ) $ (878 ) $ (2.18 ) Loss on early repayment of debt (146 ) (95 ) (0.24 ) Charge related to Globalstar guarantee (141 ) (91 ) (0.23 ) Impairment charge related to ACeS (117 ) (77 ) (0.19 ) Other portfolio shaping items (46 ) (30 ) (0.07 ) Gain on sale of Control Systems 302 180 0.45 Partial reversal of CalComp reserve 33 21 0.05 Gain on sales of surplus real estate 28 19 0.05 $ (685 ) $ (951 ) $ (2.36 ) Our operating profit for 2002 was $1.2 billion, an increase of 39% compared to 2001. Our operating profit for 2001 was $833 million, a decrease of 25% compared to 2000. These amounts included the impacts of unusual items which reduced operating profit for 2002, 2001 54 and 2000 by $1,112 million, $973 million and $685 million, respectively. The results for 2001 and 2000 included amortization expense of $274 million and $297 million, respectively, for goodwill and certain other intangibles that was not included in 2002 due to the adoption of FAS 142. Adjusting for the effects of the unusual items and the adoption of FAS 142 for each year, operating profit for 2002 would have been $2.3 billion, a 9% increase over the operating profit of $2.1 billion in 2001. The operating profit for 2001 would have remained comparable to operating profit of $2.1 billion in 2000. Operating profit in 2002 increased in all four business segments when compared to 2001. When comparing 2001 to 2000, increases in the Aeronautics, Space Systems and Technology Services segments were offset by a decrease in operating profit in Systems Integration. Interest expense for 2002 was $581 million, $119 million lower than the comparable amount in 2001 mainly due to reductions in our debt portfolio and the benefit from interest rate swap agreements. Interest expense for 2001 was $700 million, $219 million lower than the amount for 2000 mainly as a result of reductions in our debt portfolio. Our effective tax rate was 7.7% for 2002, 67.7% for 2001 and 355.7% for 2000. The rate for each year was affected by the tax impact from unusual items. Included in the unusual items for 2002 was a $90 million tax benefit related to the settlement of a research and development tax credit claim. In addition, for years prior to 2002, the rates were increased by non deductible goodwill that was being amortized for financial accounting purposes. For 2000, the tax rate was further increased by write offs of non deductible goodwill for businesses divested in that year. Adjusting for the impact of unusual items and the adoption of FAS 142, our effective tax rates would have been 31% for 2002, 32.6% for 2001 and 36.2% for 2000. For 2002 and 2001 these adjusted effective tax rates were lower than the 35% statutory rate primarily due to the lower tax rates on extraterritorial income. For 2000, the adjusted rate was higher than the statutory rate due to adjustments for revisions to prior year estimates. For 2002, we reported earnings from continuing operations of $533 million ($1.18 per diluted share) compared to $43 million ($0.10 per diluted share) for 2001. In 2000, we reported a loss from continuing operations of $477 million ($1.19 per diluted share). These amounts included the after tax effects of unusual items which reduced earnings for 2002, 2001 and 2000 by $632 million, $651 million and $951 million, respectively. The results for 2001 and 2000 included after tax amortization expense of $236 million and $268 million, respectively, for goodwill and certain other intangibles that was not included in 2002 due to the adoption of FAS 142. Adjusting for the unusual items and the adoption of FAS 142, earnings from continuing operations would have been $1.2 billion in 2002, $930 million in 2001, and $742 million in 2000. Discontinued Operations We reported losses from discontinued operations of $33 million ($0.07 per diluted share) in 2002, $1.1 billion ($2.52 per diluted share) in 2001, and $42 million ($0.10 per diluted share) in 2000. 55 The businesses included in discontinued operations reported operating losses of $33 million ($0.07 per diluted share) in 2002, $62 million ($0.14 per diluted share) in 2001, and $42 million ($0.10 per diluted share) in 2000. Discontinued operations for 2002 includes losses incurred for wind down activities related to the global telecommunications services businesses, offset by the reversal of a reserve associated with the sale of IMS. When recording the sale of IMS in 2001, we established transaction related reserves to address various indemnity provisions in the sale agreement. The risks associated with certain of these indemnity provisions have been resolved and $39 million, net of taxes, was reversed through discontinued operations in 2002. Included in the 2001 loss from discontinued operations was an unusual after tax charge of $1.3 billion ($3.09 per diluted share) related to our decision to exit the global telecommunications services business. The 2001 results also include an unusual after tax gain of $309 million ($0.71 per diluted share) from the third quarter 2001 sale of Lockheed Martin IMS Corporation. Net Earnings (Loss) We reported net earnings of $500 million ($1.11 per diluted share) in 2002, compared to net losses of $1 billion ($2.42 per diluted share) in 2001 and $519 million ($1.29 per diluted share) in 2000. These amounts included the after tax effects of unusual items which reduced earnings for 2002, 2001 and 2000 by $632 million, $1,678 million and $951 million, respectively. The results for 2001 and 2000 included after tax amortization expense of $236 million and $268 million, respectively, for goodwill and certain other intangibles that was not included in 2002 due to the adoption of FAS 142. Discussion of Business Segments We changed the way we report the results of our business segments in the fourth quarter of 2002. The change in presentation is being made to align the way segment operating results are reported to senior management for their evaluation of segment operating performance. We continue to operate in four principal business segments: Systems Integration, Space Systems, Aeronautics and Technology Services. The changes include the following: The Corporate and Other segment has been eliminated; 56 Operating profit (loss) from the operations of the four principal business segments is reconciled to the reported consolidated results utilizing the following items: Unallocated Corporate income (expense), net this caption includes Unusual items (discussed under Results of Operations above) The effects of unusual items that are not considered part of managements evaluation of the segments operating results (e.g., sales of surplus real estate, impairment charges, divestitures and other portfolio shaping activities) are excluded from the business segment results; The difference between pension costs calculated and funded in accordance with Cost Accounting Standards (CAS), which are reported in the business segment results, and pension expense or income determined in accordance with FAS 87 as reported in Note 13 to the financial statements (FAS/CAS adjustment). This amount was previously allocated to the business segments; The costs of our common stock based compensation plans, including our Long Term Incentive Performance Award Program. This amount was also allocated to the business segments previously; Corporate costs not allocated to the business segments and other miscellaneous Corporate activities, including interest income and earnings and losses from our equity investments. Impact of adoption of FAS 142 (discussed under Results of Operations above) The impact of goodwill no longer being amortized and the change in the estimated remaining useful life of the contract intangible asset related to the F 16 program is now excluded from segment results for all periods before January 1, 2002. For more information on the changes in our segment presentation and the reasons for the changes, see Note 16 to the financial statements. The following tables of financial information and the discussions of the results of operations of our business segments have been adjusted to reflect the new presentation of segment operating results and correspond to segment information presented in Note 16. 57 This table shows net sales and operating profit of the business segments and reconciles to the consolidated total. (In millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net sales Systems Integration $ 9,603 $ 9,014 $ 9,647 Space Systems 7,384 6,836 7,339 Aeronautics 6,471 5,355 4,885 Technology Services 3,104 2,763 2,649 Total business segments 26,562 23,968 24,520 Other 16 22 21 $ 26,578 $ 23,990 $ 24,541 Operating profit (loss) Systems Integration $ 952 $ 906 $ 981 Space Systems 443 360 345 Aeronautics 448 329 280 Technology Services 177 114 106 Total business segments 2,020 1,709 1,712 Unallocated Corporate expense, net (862 ) (602 ) (310 ) Impact of FAS 142 adoption (274 ) (297 ) $ 1,158 $ 833 $ 1,105 The Space Systems and Aeronautics segments generally include fewer programs that have much larger sales and operating results than programs included in the other segments. Therefore, due to the large number of comparatively smaller programs in the Systems Integration and Technology Services segments, the discussions of the results of operations of these business segments generally focus on lines of business within the segments. Systems Integration Systems Integrations operating results included the following: (In millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net sales $ 9,603 $ 9,014 $ 9,647 Operating profit 952 906 981 Net sales for Systems Integration increased 7% in 2002 as compared to 2001. Sales increased as a result of higher volume in three of the segments four lines of business. Increased sales at Missiles & Fire Control (M&FC) of $285 million were mainly due to higher volumes on the Theater High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) missile program and on certain tactical missile programs. Command, Control, Communication, Computers and Intelligence (C4I) sales increased by $275 million mainly as a result of volume on information superiority programs. Naval Electronics & Surveillance Systems (NE&SS) sales increased by $145 million primarily 58 due to higher volumes on surface systems and radar systems programs. These increases were partially offset by a $115 million decrease in sales related to volume declines on platform integration programs in the Systems Integration Owego line of business. Net sales for the segment declined by 7% in 2001 compared to 2000. Sales would have increased 4% for 2001 compared to 2000 had the sales attributable to the segments Aerospace Electronic Systems (AES) and Control Systems businesses, which were divested in the second half of 2000, and the transfer of the Payload Launch Vehicle (PLV) contract to the Space Systems segment at the start of 2001, been excluded from the comparisons. Sales increased by $270 million as a result of volume increases in NE&SS, primarily on tactical systems and surface systems programs, and undersea and radar systems activities. M&FC sales increased by $235 million, mainly due to higher volume on certain tactical missile programs and the THAAD missile program. C4I sales increased slightly year over year. These increases were partially offset by a $275 million decrease in sales related to volume declines on platform integration programs at Systems Integration Owego. Operating profit for the segment increased by 5% in 2002 compared to 2001. Increased operating profit of $60 million from the sales growth at M&FC, C4I and NE&SS more than offset lower operating profit of $14 million at Systems Integration Owego. Overall, a decline in volume on mature production programs (at Owego and M&FC) and higher volume on development programs (at NE&SS and M&FC) contributed to the slight decline in margins. Operating profit for the segment decreased 8% in 2001 compared to 2000. Operating profit would have increased by 4% for 2001 from the previous year had the operating profit related to the divested AES and Control Systems businesses, as well as the PLV contract transfer, been excluded from the comparisons. Increased operating profit of $85 million from the sales growth at NE&SS, C4I, and M&FC more than offset the decrease resulting from the volume decline at Systems Integration Owego. Space Systems Space Systems operating results included the following: (In millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net sales $ 7,384 $ 6,836 $ 7,339 Operating profit 443 360 345 Net sales for Space Systems increased by 8% in 2002 compared to 2001. The increase in sales for 2002 resulted from higher volume in government space of $370 million and commercial space of $180 million. In government space, increases of $470 million in government satellite programs and $130 million in ground systems activities more than offset volume declines of $175 million on government launch vehicles and $55 million on strategic missile programs. The increase in commercial space sales is primarily attributable to an increase in launch vehicle activities, with nine commercial launches during 2002 compared to six in 2001. Net sales for the segment decreased by 7% in 2001 compared to 2000. The decrease in sales for 2001 resulted from volume declines in commercial space of $560 million, which more than 59 offset increases in government space of $60 million. In commercial space, sales declined due to volume reductions of $480 million in commercial launch vehicle activities and $80 million in satellite programs. There were six launches in 2001 compared to 14 launches in 2000. The increase in government space resulted from a combined increase of $230 million related to higher volume on government satellite programs and ground systems activities. These increases were partially offset by a $110 million decrease related to volume declines in government launch vehicle activity, primarily due to program maturities, and by $50 million due to the absence in 2001 of favorable adjustments recorded on the Titan IV program in 2000. Operating profit for the segment increased 23% in 2002 as compared to 2001, mainly driven by the commercial space business. Reduced losses in commercial space during 2002 resulted in increased operating profit of $90 million when compared to 2001. Commercial satellite manufacturing losses declined $100 million in 2002 as operating performance improved and satellite deliveries increased. In the first quarter of 2001, a $40 million loss provision was recorded on certain commercial satellite manufacturing contracts. Due to the industry wide oversupply and deterioration of pricing in the commercial launch market, financial results on commercial launch vehicles continue to be challenging. During 2002, this trend led to a decline in operating profit of $10 million on commercial launch vehicles when compared to 2001. This decrease was primarily due to lower profitability of $55 million on the three additional launches in the current year, additional charges of $60 million (net of a favorable contract adjustment of $20 million) for market and pricing pressures and included the adverse effect of a $35 million adjustment for commercial launch vehicle contract settlement costs. The 2001 results also included charges for market and pricing pressures, which reduced that years operating profit by $145 million. The $10 million decrease in government spaces operating profit for the year is primarily due to the reduced volume on government launch vehicles and strategic missile programs, which combined to decrease operating profit by $80 million, partially offset by increases of $40 million in government satellite programs and $30 million in ground systems activities. Operating profit for the segment increased by 4% in 2001 compared to 2000. Operating profit increased in 2001 due to a $35 million increase in government space partially offset by higher year over year losses of $20 million in commercial space. In government space, operating profit increased due to the impact of higher volume and improved performance in ground systems and government satellite programs. The year to year comparison of operating profit was not affected by the $50 million favorable Titan IV adjustment recorded in 2000 discussed above, due to a $55 million charge related to a more conservative assessment of government launch vehicle programs that was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000. In commercial space, decreased operating profit of $15 million on launch vehicles more than offset lower losses on satellite manufacturing activities. The commercial launch vehicle operating results included $60 million in higher charges for market and pricing pressures when compared to 2000. These negative adjustments were partially offset by $50 million of favorable contract adjustments on certain launch vehicle contracts. Commercial satellite manufacturing losses decreased slightly from 2000 and included the adverse impact of a $40 million loss provision recorded in the first quarter of 2001 for certain commercial satellite contracts related to schedule and technical issues. 60 Aeronautics Aeronautics operating results included the following: (In millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net sales $ 6,471 $ 5,355 $ 4,885 Operating profit 448 329 280 Net sales for Aeronautics increased by 21% in 2002 compared to 2001. The higher sales were primarily driven by volume increases of $860 million on the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter program, $475 million on F/A 22 production contracts and a combined increase of $340 million from higher volume on the F 16 and C 5 programs. These increases were partially offset by a $335 million decline resulting from seven fewer C 130J deliveries compared to 2001 and a $140 million decrease due to lower volume on F/A 22 Engineering, Manufacturing and Development (EMD) activities. Net sales for the segment increased by 10% in 2001 compared to 2000. During 2001, sales increased by $400 million primarily due to the initial ramp up on F/A 22 production contracts and increased volume on F 16 programs. Volume increases from F 16 and C 130 support activities also increased sales by $230 million. These increases were partially offset by declines in sales of $260 million resulting from fewer F 16 and C 130J deliveries in 2001. Operating profit for the segment increased by 36% in 2002 compared to 2001. Increased operating profit of $119 million primarily resulted from the higher volume on the programs noted in the discussion of sales. Operating profit for 2002 was negatively affected by a $15 million charge recorded in the third quarter for performance issues on an aircraft modification contract and by a $15 million change in estimate adjustment recorded in the fourth quarter related to cost growth on F/A 22 EMD activities. Margins in 2002 were favorably affected by having seven fewer C 130J deliveries in the year as compared to 2001. The C 130J deliveries do not impact operating profit due to the previously disclosed suspension of earnings recognition on the program. Operating profit for the segment increased by 18% for 2001 compared to 2000. For the year, operating profit increased by $49 million due to increased volume and performance on the F/A 22 program, development activities on F 16 and other aeronautical programs. This increase was partially offset by a decline in F 16 deliveries. Margins in 2001 were favorably affected by having five fewer C 130J deliveries as compared to 2000. Technology Services Technology Services operating results included the following: (In millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net sales $ 3,104 $ 2,763 $ 2,649 Operating profit 177 114 106 61 Net sales for Technology Services increased by 12% in 2002 compared to 2001. For the year, the increase in sales was primarily attributable to growth of $335 million in the government information technology line of business, due to increased volume on existing programs and the acquisition of OAO Corporation effective December 1, 2001, and $155 million in the defense line of business. This growth was partially offset by a combined $160 million decline in sales related to volume on the commercial information technology and NASA lines of business. Net sales for the segment increased by 4% in 2001 compared to 2000. Excluding the sales attributable to Lockheed Martin Energy Technologies and Retech, two business units that were divested in 2000, and the acquisition of OAO Corporation, sales would have increased 7% for the year. Sales increased $190 million primarily due to increased volume in the government information technology and military aircraft lines of business. This growth was partially offset by lower sales volume associated with the segments energy related contracts due to program completions. Operating profit for the segment increased by 55% in 2002 compared to 2001. The increase is mainly due to improved performance in commercial information technology and the higher volume in government information technology, which together, increased operating profit by $100 million. These increases were partially offset by a combined decrease in operating profit of $30 million on the military aircraft, NASA, defense and energy lines of business. Operating profit for the segment increased by 8% for 2001 compared to 2000. Operating profit increased by $30 million in 2001 from higher volumes in the government information technology and military aircraft lines of business. This improvement was partially offset by a $20 million reduction in operating profit due to the completion of energy related contracts. The Technology Services segment has a business unit which provides services to the government of Argentina. At December 31, 2002, we had investments in and advances to the business unit totaling about $30 million. While we expect that these amounts will be recoverable, there is always the potential that further devaluation of the Argentine peso, deterioration in the Argentine economy or other factors could adversely affect our ability to recover those amounts. Unallocated Corporate Income (Expense), Net The following table shows the components of unallocated Corporate income (expense), net: (In millions) 2002 2001 2000 Unallocated Corporate income (expense), net Unusual items $ (1,112 ) $ (973 ) $ (685 ) FAS/CAS adjustment 243 360 309 Other 7 11 66 $ (862 ) $ (602 ) $ (310 ) For information about unusual items, see the table under the previous discussion of continuing operations. 62 The difference between pension costs calculated and funded in accordance with CAS and pension expense or income determined in accordance with FAS 87 is not included in segment operating results and therefore is a reconciling item between operating profit from the business segments and consolidated operating profit (FAS/CAS adjustment). The CAS funding amount is allocated among the business segments and is included as an expense item in the segments cost of goods sold. This cost is also passed along to our customers through contract pricing, and is consequently included in the segments sales. The following table shows the CAS funding that is included as expense in the segments operating results, the related FAS income, and the FAS/CAS adjustment: (In millions) 2002 2001 2000 FAS 87 income $ 156 $ 354 $ 302 CAS funding and expense (87 ) (6 ) (7 ) FAS/CAS adjustment income $ 243 $ 360 $ 309 Backlog Total negotiated backlog was $70.4 billion at December 31, 2002. This amount includes both funded backlog (unfilled firm orders for our products for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer Congress in the case of U.S. Government agencies) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated). Funded backlog was $36.1 billion at December 31, 2002. The following table shows total backlog by segment at the end of each of the last three years: (In millions) 2002 2001 2000 Backlog Systems Integration $ 17,671 $ 17,027 $ 16,706 Space Systems 12,620 12,977 15,505 Aeronautics 35,477 36,149 17,570 Technology Services 4,617 5,116 5,295 $ 70,385 $ 71,269 $ 55,076 63 Liquidity and Cash Flows Operating Activities Operating activities provided $2.3 billion of cash in 2002, compared to $1.8 billion in 2001 and $2.0 billion in 2000. Operating activities included earnings (loss) from continuing operations, as adjusted for noncash items, and the cash provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Management of our working capital accounts (accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and customer advances) contributed $202 million of cash flow in 2002, $1.1 billion in 2001 and $355 million in 2000. The timing of income tax payments or refunds also affects our operating cash flows. In 2002, we received $117 million from the settlement of the R&D tax credit claim while in 2001, we paid $655 million of income taxes related to divested businesses. Included in operating activities is cash provided from discontinued operations of $25 million in 2002, $34 million in 2001 and $25 million in 2000. Operating cash flows were sufficient to operate our businesses, finance capital expenditures and to pay dividends on our common stock each year. Investing Activities Investing activities used $539 million of cash in 2002, compared to providing $139 million in 2001 and $1.8 billion in 2000. Cash used for property, plant and equipment expenditures increased 7% in 2002 and 24% in 2001 and included $10 million in 2002, $74 million in 2001 and $58 million in 2000 for the discontinued businesses. During 2002, we received proceeds of $134 million from the sale of our discontinued telecommunications businesses and $93 million primarily from the disposal of property, plant and equipment. Investments of $104 million were made in 2002, primarily related to our acquisition of OAO Corporation. During 2001, we received proceeds of $825 million from the sale of our IMS business. Investments in affiliated companies of $192 million primarily consisted of $140 million to complete our funding commitment to Astrolink and $30 million to Intelsat. The remainder of the 2001 activity was attributable to proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment, and various other investing activities. During 2000, we received $1.7 billion from the sale of our AES business, $510 million from the sale of our Control Systems business and $164 million from the sale of a portion of our investment in Inmarsat. Investments in affiliated companies of $257 million mainly consisted of our funding commitment to Astrolink of $127 million and an additional investment in Intelsat of $58 million. Proceeds from the sale of property and other activities contributed $175 million to our investing activities. 64 Financing Activities Financing activities provided $77 million of cash in 2002, as compared to using $2.6 billion in 2001 and $2.7 billion in 2000. Proceeds of $436 million from stock option activity more than offset dividend payments of $199 million, repayment of debt (primarily ESOP obligations) of $110 million and $50 million for the repurchase of 1 million shares of common stock in 2002. Including the $450 million of debentures we called in 2003 to be repaid early and the $150 million of debt we recorded relating to our guarantee of Space Imaging, LLCs existing credit facility (see the related discussions under Capital Structure and Resources), debt maturities will amount to $1,365 million in 2003. During 2001, improved operating cash flows and cash provided by investing activities allowed us to reduce our long term debt by approximately $2.4 billion. The reduction in long term debt was primarily attributable to the pre payment of notes issued to a wholly owned subsidiary of General Electric Company (GE), payments on scheduled debt maturities, and the early retirement of certain other debt instruments. Debt retirements in 2000 were mainly attributable to our completing tender offers for some of our long term debt during the fourth quarter of 2000. We used $2.1 billion to consummate the tender offers, resulting in the early repayment of $1.9 billion in long term debt and an unusual loss, net of state income tax benefits, of $146 million, or $95 million after tax. We paid dividends of $199 million in 2002, $192 million in 2001 and $183 million in 2000. Other We receive advances on some contracts to finance inventories. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, approximately $4.3 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, in advances, performance based payments and progress payments for work in process were received from customers and recorded as a reduction to inventories in our balance sheet. Also at December 31, 2002 and 2001, $466 million and $566 million, respectively, of customer advances, performance based payments and progress payments were recorded in receivables as a reduction to unbilled costs and accrued profits. Approximately $4.5 billion and $5.0 billion of customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred, which are usually from foreign governments and commercial customers, were included in current liabilities at the end of 2002 and 2001, respectively (see Note 1). Capital Structure and Resources Total debt increased by $71 million during 2002 from a balance of $7.5 billion at December 31, 2001. Current maturities of long term debt at December 31, 2002 included $450 million of debentures we called in 2003 to be repaid early and $150 million of debt we recorded relating to our guarantee of Space Imaging, LLCs existing credit facility (see the related discussions below). Our long term debt is mainly in the form of publicly issued, fixed rate notes and debentures. At December 31, 2002, we held cash and cash equivalents of $2.7 billion, some of which will be used to meet scheduled long term debt maturities in 2003. 65 Total stockholders equity was $5.9 billion at December 31, 2002, a decrease of $578 million from December 31, 2001. This decrease was mainly attributable to our recognition of an additional minimum pension liability, which reduced stockholders equity on an after tax basis by $1.5 billion, the payment of dividends of $199 million and the repurchase of 1 million shares of common stock for $50 million. Stock option and ESOP activity of $752 million and net earnings of $500 million during the year partially offset the decline. As a result of the above factors, our total debt to capitalization ratio increased from 53.8% at December 31, 2001 to 56.4% at December 31, 2002. In 2003, in order to reduce interest expense and improve our debt to capitalization ratio, we decided to issue irrevocable redemption notices to the trustees for two issuances of callable debentures totaling $450 million. These debentures have interest rates that are higher than current market rates. One notice was for $300 million of 7.875% debentures due on March 15, 2023, which were callable on or after March 15, 2003. The second was for $150 million of 7.75% debentures due on April 15, 2023, which were callable on or after April 15, 2003. We expect to repay amounts due on March 15, 2003 and April 15, 2003, respectively. Therefore, we have included the $450 million in current maturities of long term debt on our balance sheet at December 31, 2002. We expect to incur a loss on the early repayment of the debt, net of state income tax benefits, of approximately $16 million, or $10 million after tax. At the end of 2002, we had in place a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility; no borrowings were outstanding. This credit facility will expire in November 2006. Borrowings under the credit facility would be unsecured and bear interest at rates based, at our option, on the Eurodollar rate or a bank Base Rate (as defined). Each banks obligation to make loans under the credit facility is subject to, among other things, our compliance with various representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants limiting our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to encumber our assets, and a covenant not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. In October 2002, we terminated our $1.0 billion 1 year credit facility. We have agreements in place with banking institutions to provide for the issuance of commercial paper. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2002. If we were to issue commercial paper, the borrowings would be supported by the $1.5 billion credit facility. We have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to provide for the issuance of up to $1 billion in debt securities. If we were to issue debt under this shelf registration, we would expect to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. These purposes may include repayment of debt, working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and any other general corporate purpose. We actively seek to finance our business in a manner that preserves financial flexibility while minimizing borrowing costs to the extent practicable. Our management continually reviews changes in financial, market and economic conditions to manage the types, amounts and maturities of our indebtedness. Periodically, we may refinance existing indebtedness, vary our mix of variable rate and fixed rate debt, or seek alternative financing sources for our cash and operational needs. Cash and cash equivalents (including temporary investments), internally generated cash flow from operations and other available financing resources, including those described above, are 66 expected to be sufficient to meet anticipated operating, capital expenditure and debt service requirements, as well as discretionary investment needs, during the next twelve months. Consistent with our desire to generate cash to reduce debt and invest in our core businesses, we expect that, subject to prevailing financial, market and economic conditions, we will continue to explore the sale of non core businesses, passive equity investments and surplus real estate. At December 31, 2002, we had contractual commitments to repay debt (including capital lease obligations), and to make payments under operating leases. Generally, our long term debt obligations are subject to, along with other things, compliance with certain covenants, including covenants limiting our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to encumber our assets. Payments due under these long term obligations are as follows: Payments Due by Period (In millions) Total Less than1 Year 13Years 45Years After 5 Years Long term debt and capital lease obligations(a) $ 7,557 $ 1,365 $ 156 $ 816 $ 5,220 Operating lease commitments(b) 1,042 222 356 236 228 Total contractual cash obligations $ 8,599 $ 1,587 $ 512 $ 1,052 $ 5,448 (a) Amounts exclude a $25 million adjustment to the fair value of long term debt relating to the Corporations interest rate swap agreements which will not be settled in cash. (b) Includes future payments related to a leasing arrangement with a state government authority for Atlas V launch facilities. Total payments under the arrangement are expected to be approximately $320 million over a 10 year period. Lease payments began in August 2002. We have entered into standby letter of credit agreements and other arrangements with financial institutions and customers mainly relating to the guarantee of future performance on some of our contracts to provide products and services to customers. At December 31, 2002, we had contingent liabilities on outstanding letters of credit, guarantees and other arrangements, as follows: Commitment Expiration per Period (In millions) Total Commitment Less than 1 Year 13Years 45Years After 5Years Surety bonds(a) $ 291 $ 117 $ 74 $ 100 $ Standby letters of credit(a) 288 200 73 4 11 Guarantees 3 2 1 Total commitments $ 582 $ 319 $ 148 $ 104 $ 11 (a) Approximately $100 million and $5 million of surety bonds in the less than 1 year and 13 year periods, respectively, and approximately $143 million and $4 million of standby letters of credit in the less than 1 year and 13 year periods, respectively, are expected to automatically renew for additional one to two year periods until completion of the contractual obligation. We have issued standby letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $4.1 billion related to advances received from customers and or to secure our performance under long term contracts. Amounts included in the table above totaling $579 million are those amounts over and above 67 advances received from customers which are recorded in the balance sheet as either offsets against inventories or in customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred. Of the $3.5 billion recorded in the balance sheet, approximately $2 billion relates to a standby letter of credit to secure advance payments received under an F 16 contract from an international customer. This letter of credit is available for draw down only in the event of our nonperformance. Similar to the letter of credit for the F 16 contract, letters of credit and surety bonds for other contracts are available for draw down only in the event of our nonperformance. We hold a 46% interest in a joint venture called Space Imaging, LLC (Space Imaging) which we account for under the equity method. Space Imaging was recently successful in obtaining certain long term commitments from the U.S. Government for purchases of commercial satellite imagery on an as needed basis. However, to execute its current business plans and fund future replacement satellites, Space Imaging will likely need, but has not been able to obtain commitments for, additional investment or funding. In addition to our equity investment, we also guarantee up to $150 million of Space Imagings borrowings under a credit facility that matures on March 31, 2003, and have about $33 million in receivables from the joint venture at the end of 2002. In light of our decision and the decision of the other major member in the joint venture not to provide further funding at this time, our assessment that Space Imaging will likely not be able to repay its obligation under the credit facility when due, and the uncertainties as to whether Space Imaging will be successful in obtaining the additional investment necessary to fund replacement satellites, we wrote off our investment in the joint venture and recorded the obligation to fund amounts due from us under the guarantee. As a result, we recorded a charge, net of state income taxes, of $163 million which reduced net earnings by $106 million ($0.23 per diluted share), and increased current maturities of long term debt by $150 million, representing our obligation under the guarantee, which is expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2003. In March 2000, we converted our 45.9 million shares of Loral Space & Communications Ltd. Series A Preferred Stock into an equal number of shares of Loral Space common stock. Due to the market price of Loral Space stock and the potential impact of underlying market and industry conditions on Loral Spaces ability to execute its current business plans, we recorded an unusual charge, net of state income tax benefits, of $361 million in the third quarter of 2001 related to our investment in Loral Space. The charge reduced net earnings by $235 million, or $0.54 per diluted share (see Note 8 to the financial statements). The value of our investment continues to be impacted by adverse market and industry conditions, including low demand for commercial satellites as a result of excess capacity in the telecommunications industry. We satisfied our contractual obligation relating to our guarantee of certain indebtedness of Globalstar, L.P. (Globalstar) with a net payment of $150 million on June 30, 2000 to repay a portion of Globalstars borrowings under a revolving credit agreement. This payment resulted in our recording an unusual charge, net of state income tax benefits, of approximately $141 million in 2000 which reduced net earnings for the year by $91 million, or $0.23 per diluted share (see Note 9 to the financial statements for more information). We have no remaining guarantees related to Globalstar. On February 15, 2002, Globalstar and certain of its affiliates filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 68 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure of Market Risk Our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates and, to a lesser extent, foreign currency exchange rates. Our financial instruments which are subject to interest rate risk mainly include commercial paper and fixed rate long term debt. At December 31, 2002, we did not have any commercial paper outstanding. We use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates. At the end of the year 2002, we had agreements in place to swap fixed interest rates on about $920 million of our long term debt for variable interest rates based on LIBOR. The interest rate swap agreements are designated as effective hedges of the fair value of the underlying fixed rate debt instruments. At December 31, 2002, the fair values of interest rate swap agreements outstanding totaled about $25 million. The amounts of gains and losses from changes in the fair values of the swap agreements were entirely offset by those from changes in the fair value of the associated debt obligations. The interest rate swaps create a market exposure to changes in the LIBOR rate. To the extent that the LIBOR index on which the swaps are based increases or decreases by 1%, our interest expense would increase or decrease by $9 million annually on a pretax basis. Changes in swap rates would affect the market value of the agreements, but those changes in value would be offset by changes in value of the underlying debt. A 1% rise in swap rates from those at December 31, 2002 would result in a decrease in market value of about $11 million. A 1% decline would increase the market value by a like amount. We use forward foreign exchange and option contracts to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. These contracts are designated as qualifying hedges of the cash flows associated with firm commitments or specific anticipated transactions, and related gains and losses on the contracts, to the extent they are effective hedges, are recognized in income when the hedged transaction occurs. To the extent the hedges are ineffective, gains and losses on the contracts are recognized currently. At December 31, 2002, the fair value of forward exchange and option contracts outstanding, as well as the amounts of gains and losses recorded during the year, were not material. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Environmental Matters As more fully described in Note 15 to the financial statements, we have property that is subject to environmental matters. In our opinion, the probability is remote that the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Certain expenditures related to the recorded liabilities discussed below, after deducting any recoveries from insurance or other PRPs, are allowable in establishing the prices of our products and services under contracts with the U.S. Government. The recorded amounts do not reflect the possible future recoveries of portions of the environmental costs through insurance policy coverage or from other PRPs, which we are pursuing as required by agreement and U.S. Government regulation. These matters include the following items: We are responding to three administrative orders issued by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board in connection with our former facilities in Redlands, California. We are also coordinating with the U.S. Air Force, which is working with the aerospace and defense industry to conduct preliminary studies of the potential health effects of perchlorate exposure associated with several sites across the country, including the Redlands site. The results of these 69 studies are intended to assist us in determining our ultimate clean up obligation, if any, with respect to perchlorates. In January 2002, the State of California reduced the provisional standard for perchlorate concentration in water from 18 parts per billion (ppb) to 4 ppb. Although this provisional standard does not create a legally enforceable requirement for us at this time, we have developed a preliminary remediation plan that would meet the provisional standard if it were to become final. Because this plan entails a long lead time to be implemented, we have decided to begin implementing the plan and recognize the increased costs that are associated with the plan. The balance sheet at December 31, 2002 includes a liability of approximately $185 million which is our estimate of the remaining expenditures necessary to implement the remediation and other work at the site over the next 30 years. This amount is approximately $100 million more than the amount recorded at December 31, 2001. As at other sites, we are pursuing claims against other potentially responsible parties (PRPs), including the U.S. Government, to help with clean up costs. We have also been conducting remediation activities to address soil and groundwater contamination by chlorinated solvents at our former operations in Great Neck, New York. Until the third quarter of 2002, all of the remediation work associated with this site had been performed on the site itself. In the third quarter, we entered into negotiations with the State of New York to implement an off site interim remedial measure intended to address an off site plume of groundwater contamination that was found to be moving more rapidly than originally anticipated. This has led to an increase of approximately $50 million in the projected future costs for the site. Total projected future costs are now estimated to be about $70 million through 2025. This amount is included in our balance sheet at December 31, 2002. As at other sites, we are pursuing claims against other PRPs, including the U.S. Government, to help with clean up costs. Since 1990, we have been responding to various consent decrees and orders relating to soil and regional groundwater contamination in the San Fernando Valley associated with our former operations in Burbank and Glendale, California. Under an agreement reached with the U.S. Government in 2000, we will continue to be reimbursed in an amount equal to about 50% of future expenditures for certain remediation activities by the U.S. Government in its capacity as a PRP under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. We have recorded a liability of approximately $60 million representing our estimate of the total expenditures required over the remaining terms of the consent decrees and orders for the Glendale and Burbank sites, net of the effects of the agreement. We are a party to other proceedings and potential proceedings for environmental clean up issues, including matters at various sites where we have been designated a PRP by the EPA or by a state agency. If we are ultimately found to have liability at those sites where we have been designated a PRP, we expect that the actual burden for the costs of remediation will be shared with other liable PRPs. Generally, PRPs that are ultimately determined to be responsible parties are strictly liable for site clean up and usually agree among themselves to share, on an allocated basis, the costs and expenses for investigation and remediation of hazardous materials. Under existing environmental laws, however, responsible parties are jointly and severally liable and, therefore, we are potentially liable for the full cost of funding such remediation. In the unlikely event that we were required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, the statutory framework provides that we may pursue rights of contribution from the other PRPs. 70 In addition to the amounts related to the Redlands, Burbank, Glendale and Great Neck sites described above, a liability of approximately $130 million for the other properties (including current operating facilities and certain facilities operated in prior years) in which an estimate of financial exposure can be determined has been recorded. We believe that it is unlikely that any additional liability we may have for known environmental issues would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. As described in Note 15 to the financial statements, we are continuing to pursue recovery of a significant portion of the unanticipated costs we incurred for a $180 million fixed price contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE) for the remediation of waste found in Pit 9. We have been unsuccessful to date in reaching agreement with the DoE on cost recovery or other contract restructuring matters. In 1998, the management contractor for the project, a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, at the DoEs direction, terminated the Pit 9 contract for default. We sued the DoE in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims seeking to overturn the default termination and to recover our costs. The management contractor, at the DoEs direction, sued us in the U.S. District Court in Idaho seeking, among other things, recovery of about $54 million previously paid to us under the contract. We filed counterclaims, again seeking to overturn the default termination and recover our costs. In 2001, the Court of Federal Claims dismissed our lawsuit against the DoE, finding that we lacked privity of contract with the DoE. On September 30, 2002, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the dismissal. We did not appeal the decision further and will continue to seek resolution of the Pit 9 dispute through non litigation means while pursuing our remedies in the Idaho proceeding, which is set for trial in August 2003. Controls and Procedures We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our periodic filings with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily was required to use its judgment in evaluating the cost to benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated entities. As we do not control or manage these entities, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to those entities are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to its consolidated subsidiaries. Within 90 days prior to the date of this report, we performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. The evaluation was performed with the participation of senior management of each business segment and key Corporate functions, and under the supervision of the CEO and CFO. Based on the evaluation, our management, including the CEO and CFO, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. There have been no significant changes in our internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls after the date we completed the evaluation. 71 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure of Market Risk on page 65, and under the caption Derivative financial instruments in Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies on page 78 of this Form 10 K. 72 
 
