ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Lockheed Martin Corporation December 31, 2003 Financial Section Roadmap The financial section of our Annual Report on Form 10 K includes a 5 year summary of financial information (Item 6), managements discussion and analysis (Item 7), our consolidated financial statements (Item 8) and notes to those financial statements (Item 8). We have prepared the following summary, or roadmap, to assist in your review of the financial section. It is designed to give you an overview of our company and focus your review by directing you to some of the more important activities and events that occurred this year. Lockheed Martins Business Lockheed Martin Corporation is mainly involved in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, operation and support of advanced technology systems, products and services. We have customers in domestic and international defense, civil government, and commercial markets, and over 75% of our sales over the past three years have been to agencies of the U.S. Government. Our main areas of focus are in the defense, space, homeland security, and government information technology markets. We operate in five principal business segments: Aeronautics, Electronic Systems, Space Systems, Integrated Systems & Solutions and Information & Technology Services. As a lead systems integrator, our products and services range from aircraft, spacecraft and launch vehicles to missiles, electronics and information systems, including integrated net centric solutions. Financial Section Overview The financial section includes the following: Managements discussion and analysis, or MD&A (pages 42 through 74) provides managements view about industry trends, risks and uncertainties relating to Lockheed Martin, accounting policies that we view as critical in light of our business, our results of operations, including discussions about the key performance drivers of each of our business segments, our financial position and cash flows, commitments and contingencies, important events or transactions that have occurred over the last three years, and forward looking information, as appropriate. Financial statements, notes to the financial statements and related reports Reports related to the financial statements (pages 75 through 77) include the following: A report from our management, indicating our responsibility for financial reporting and maintaining an internal control environment, and 42 A report from our independent auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, which includes their opinion about the fair presentation of our financial statements based on their audits. The report includes their opinion about the conformity of our financial statements, which includes the notes to the financial statements, with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Financial statements (pages 78 through 81) include our consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and stockholders equity for each of the last three years, and our balance sheet as of the end of the last two years. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Notes to the financial statements (pages 82 through 120) provide insight into and are an integral part of our financial statements. There are explanations of our significant accounting policies, details about certain of the captions on the financial statements, information about significant events or transactions that have occurred, discussions about commitments and contingencies, and selected financial information relating to our business segments. The notes to the financial statements also are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Highlights The financial section of our Annual Report describes our ongoing operations, including discussions about particular lines of business or programs, our ability to finance our operating activities, and trends and uncertainties in our industry and how they might affect our future operations. We also discuss those items affecting our results that were not considered in senior managements assessment of the operating performance of our business segments. We separately disclose these items to assist in your evaluation of our overall operating performance and financial condition of the consolidated company. We would like to draw your attention to the following items disclosed in this financial section and where you will find them: Topic Location(s) Critical accounting policies Page 49 Post retirement benefit plans Page 51 and page 104 Environmental matters Page 53, page 84 and page 110 Acquisition and divestiture activities Page 54 and page 88 Changes in our business segment presentation, and discussions of each segments operations Page 58 and page 112 Unallocated Corporate (expense) income, net Page 65 and page 115 Liquidity and cash flows Page 66 and page 80 Capital structure and resources Page 68, page 79 and page 81 Commitments and contingencies Page 69 and page 110 Goodwill (FAS 142) Page 84 and page 87 Stock based compensation Page 86 and page100 43 Industry Considerations Defense Business Considerations Domestic and worldwide political and economic developments continue to have a significant impact on the markets for defense and advanced technology systems, products and services. Markets for defense and advanced technology systems during 2004 and beyond will continue to be affected by the worldwide war against terrorism, and the continued need for military missions in Iraq and Afghanistan and related reconstruction efforts. These realities have increased the need for greater attention to the security of our homeland and for better communication and interplay between law enforcement, civil government agencies, intelligence agencies and our military services. Our nations overall defense posture continues to move toward a more capabilities based structure, which creates the ability for a more flexible response with greater force mobility, stronger space capabilities, enhanced missile defense and improved information systems capabilities and security. We anticipate that the next Congressionally mandated Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) undertaken by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) will reinforce and advance efforts at the DoD to refocus activities towards joint operations, net centric command and control, and integrated capabilities for the armed forces. Recognizing this emerging priority at the DoD, we formed Integrated Systems & Solutions, a new business segment, in 2003 from existing components of our Electronic Systems and Space Systems segments. We believe this new segment will help us better focus our integrated solutions capabilities across the Corporation and enhance our ability to serve as a lead partner with the DoD to respond to this customer priority. The Presidents budget for the DoD for fiscal year 2004 and beyond responds to increased needs for homeland security and combating terrorism. This is evidenced by budget increases for operational readiness and personnel needs, as well as for both procurement and research and development. This trend was reiterated in the Future Year Defense Plan (FYDP) submitted with the Presidents budget for fiscal year 2005. It projects sustained growth in both the procurement and research and development budgets for the DoD through fiscal year 2006 and, in the case of the procurement budgetary authority, through fiscal year 2009. While there is no assurance that the increased DoD budget levels will be approved by Congress, the current defense budget outlook appears to be one of modest growth. However, the level of growth and the amount of the budget that will ultimately be allocated to the investment accounts most closely aligned with our business (i.e., procurement, research and development) is unknown. During 2003, Congress appropriated additional amounts to pay for operational costs for military missions in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as for reconstruction activities. These supplemental appropriations enabled the DoD to proceed on critical modernization and acquisition programs, versus using amounts available for those programs to pay for the Iraq and Afghanistan missions. The DoD expects a further supplemental appropriation to continue these missions as needed through 2005. As a result, we do not anticipate that sustained operations in Iraq and Afghanistan will materially impact the procurement and research and development budget levels projected in the 2005 to 2009 FYDP. Our broad mix of programs and capabilities gives us the ability to support the needs of the various agencies of the U.S. Government that require our products and services. Our major programs and capabilities include: missile defense; space intelligence; command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR); air mobility 44 aircraft; and air power projection / precision strike capability. In terms of size and long term potential impact, two of our more significant programs are the F/A 22 Raptor and the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter. We are also represented in almost every aspect of land, sea, air and space based missile defense, including the Medium Extended Air Defense System (MEADS), the Patriot Advanced Capability (PAC 3) missile program, the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system, the Multiple Kill Vehicle program, and the High Altitude Airship program. In the areas of space intelligence and information superiority, we have leadership positions on programs such as Transformational Communications, Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF), and Space Based Infrared System High (SBIRS H), and in classified programs and battle management command and control capabilities. In airlift, we have the C 130J program and are under contract to upgrade the C 5 strategic airlift aircraft. Many of these programs are large and require funding over several budget cycles. There are risks associated with these and other large, highly visible programs subject to appropriation by Congress that, because of their size, could be expected to become potential targets for reduction or extension of funding to pay for other programs. The Office of Management and Budget recently announced its intention to conduct a comprehensive review of the F/A 22 Raptor program. This independent assessment will evaluate the performance, requirements and cost aspects of the program. We believe sustained improved performance in production and testing of the F/A 22 will re validate the transformational qualities of this weapons system, and the suitability of the F/A 22 for continued production by the U.S. Air Force. We continue to expand our capabilities in critical intelligence, knowledge management and E Government solutions. Consistent with the Presidents agenda, the expected growth in business process outsourcing has been enabled by recent rule changes for public/private competitions. In addition, recent trends have indicated an increase in demand by federal and civil government agencies for upgrading and investing in new information technology systems and solutions. As a result, we continue to focus our resources in support of infrastructure modernization that allows for interoperability and communication across agencies. In addition, the increase in emphasis on homeland security may increase demand for our capabilities in areas such as air traffic management, ports and waterways security, biohazard detection systems for postal equipment, information systems security and other technical systems solutions. In prior years, companies in our industry had reacted to historically shrinking defense budgets for procurement and research and development by combining to maintain critical mass. More recently, we have focused our efforts on select core acquisitions, cost savings and improving efficiency, as well as generating cash to repay debt incurred during the period of consolidation. Through our consolidation activities, we have been able to pass along savings to our customers, mainly the DoD. Non U.S. defense budgets have generally been declining over the past decade. As a result, consolidation has also been occurring in the European aerospace industry, resulting in fewer but larger and more capable competitors, potentially resulting in an environment where there could be less demand abroad for products from U.S. companies. This type of environment could reduce opportunities for European partnerships and sales potential for U.S. exports. 45 Space Business The commercial launch vehicle marketplace remains very competitive due mainly to low demand for new satellites as a result of excess capacity in the telecommunications industry. The reduction in demand has resulted in pricing pressures in both the launch vehicle and satellite markets. We received new orders for both commercial satellites and launch vehicles in 2003; however, the majority of those orders relate to replacement satellites versus an expansion of telecommunications capacity. The above factors have impacted orders for all of our commercial launch vehicles, including the Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV or Atlas V), our next generation launch vehicle program in which we have made significant investments over the past few years. The Atlas V is available for both commercial and government use. This program has required investment of funds for research and development, start up and other nonrecurring costs, and launch facilities. Some of these expenditures have been funded under an agreement with the U.S. Government. Commercial orders to date for the Atlas V launch vehicle have been lower than originally expected and at lower prices. However, we have received a total of 18 EELV launch assignments from the U.S. Government (including those described in the following paragraph), 3 of which are under contract. We had our third Atlas V launch in 2003. In July 2003, the U.S. Air Force announced that our competitor in the EELV competition had violated the Procurement Integrity Act. As a result of that determination, the Air Force reassigned 7 launch vehicles from the initial competition (referred to as Buy 1) to us and removed our exclusion from west coast launches. At the same time, the Air Force assigned us 3 new west coast launches. To prepare for providing the west coast launches, we are upgrading west coast launch facilities, which will require further investment in the EELV program. However, we expect to recover that investment through pricing of the west coast launches. The 7 reassigned launches are expected to occur over the 2005 through 2009 time period. Contractual terms and conditions related to the west coast launches have not yet been finalized with the Air Force. Lockheed Khrunichev Energia International, Inc. (LKEI), a joint venture we have with two Russian government owned space firms, has exclusive rights to market launches of commercial, non Russian origin space payloads on the Proton family of rockets from a launch site in Kazakhstan. Commercial Atlas and Proton launch services are marketed around the world through International Launch Services (ILS), a joint venture between Lockheed Martin and LKEI. We consolidate the results of operations of LKEI and ILS into our financial statements based on controlling financial interest. We received 7 new awards for launches on Proton vehicles in 2003. Contracts for launch services usually require substantial advances from the customer prior to launch. At the end of 2003, $250 million of advances received from customers for Proton launch services not yet provided was included as a liability on our balance sheet in the caption Customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred. A sizeable percentage of the advances we receive from customers for Proton launch services are sent to Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center (Khrunichev), the manufacturer of the launch vehicle and provider of the related launch services in Russia. If a contracted launch service is not provided, a sizeable percentage of the related advance would have to be refunded to the customer. In addition, we have sent advances to Khrunichev for 46 launches we purchased which have not yet been assigned to customers. The advances sent to Khrunichev are included on our balance sheet in inventories. Advances for launches not under contract are subject to an agreement entered into in 2002 which provides for reduced future launch payments from us to Khrunichev, contingent on the receipt of new orders as well as a minimum number of actual launches each year. As a result of this agreement, as well as our assessment in 2002 of the likelihood of customer terminations for convenience for launches under contract, we reduced the carrying value of our advances to Khrunichev and recognized a charge, net of state income tax benefits, of $173 million. The charge reduced 2002 net earnings by $112 million ($0.25 per diluted share). At year end 2003, payments to Khrunichev included in inventories, net of the amount of the reserve recorded in 2002, totaled $327 million. Our ability to realize the remaining amounts may be affected by Khrunichevs ability to provide the launch services and the political environment in Russia. Through the end of 2003, launch services through LKEI and ILS have been provided according to contract terms. The Corporation has entered into an agreement with RD AMROSS, a joint venture of the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation and the Russian firm NPO Energomash, for the purchase, subject to certain conditions, of RD 180 booster engines for use in the Corporations Atlas launch vehicles. Terms of the agreement call for payments to be made to RD AMROSS upon the achievement of certain milestones in the manufacturing process. Payments of $57 million made under this agreement for engines not yet delivered were included in the Corporations inventories at December 31, 2003. As discussed above, the commercial satellite market has continued to experience pricing pressures due to excess capacity and lower demand. Satellite demand also has been impacted by the business difficulties encountered by some companies in the commercial satellite services industry which have resulted in reduced access to capital and a reduction in the total market size in the near term. However, in the past year, we received 5 new commercial satellite orders, generally for replacement satellites versus capacity expansion. We expect to continue to control costs in our commercial satellite manufacturing business while keeping our focus on providing a reliable product. We also received new orders for government satellites in 2003 related to classified activities. Other Business Considerations As a government contractor, we are subject to U.S. Government oversight. The Government may ask about and investigate our business practices and audit our compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Depending on the results of those audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us. Under Government procurement regulations and practices, an indictment of a government contractor could result in that contractor being fined and or suspended from being able to bid on, or be awarded, new government contracts for a period of time. A conviction could result in debarment for a specific period of time. Similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business. Although we cannot predict the outcome of these types of investigations and inquiries with certainty, based on current facts, we do not believe that any of the claims, audits or investigations pending against us are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 47 Changes in government procurement policies and practices over the past several years, such as increases in the progress payment rate and the use of performance based payments, have had a positive effect on our financial position and cash flows. But we are still exposed to risks associated with U.S. Government contracting, including technological uncertainties and obsolescence, and having to depend on Congressional appropriation and allotment of funds each year. Many of our programs involve the development and application of state of the art technologies aimed at achieving challenging goals. As a result, setbacks, delays, cost growth and product failures can occur. In addition to our defense businesses, we also provide products and services to most civil government customers, as well as to commercial customers. We provide products and services to government agencies such as the Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Postal Service, the Patent and Trademark Office, the Federal Aviation Administration, NASA, the U.S. Coast Guard and the Transportation Security Administration. Although our lines of business in civil government and commercial markets are not dependent on defense budgets, they share many of the same risks as our defense businesses, as well as other risks unique to their particular marketplaces. Although indemnification by the U.S. Government may be available in some instances for our defense businesses, U.S. Government indemnification may not be available to cover potential claims or liabilities resulting from a failure of technologies developed and deployed for homeland security purposes. While we maintain insurance for some business risks, it is not possible to obtain coverage to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. We do plan to seek limitation of such potential liabilities related to the sale and use of our homeland security products and services through qualification by the Department of Homeland Security under the SAFETY Act provisions of the Homeland Security Act of 2002. In the event we were to provide homeland security related products and services to a customer without such qualification, we would not be afforded the benefit of the SAFETY Acts cap on tort liability or U.S. Government indemnification. Other risks unique to the civil government and commercial markets may include development of competing products, technological feasibility and product obsolescence. We provide products and services to NASA, including the Space Shuttle program, mainly through our Space Systems and Information & Technology Services business segments. Work for NASA accounted for approximately 5% of our consolidated net sales in 2003. We also have a 50% equity interest in United Space Alliance, LLC which provides ground processing and other operational services to the Space Shuttle program. We worked with NASA and others in the independent investigation of the tragic accident in February 2003 involving the Space Shuttle Columbia. The investigation is now completed. We do not expect that the effects of this accident will have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We expect to compete for NASA programs related to the new Space Exploration Initiative announced by the President, which includes development of human rated space launch and transportation systems over the next 15 years, replacing the current space shuttle architecture. We have entered into various joint venture, teaming and other business arrangements to help support our portfolio of products and services in many of our lines of business, including commercial space. Some of these business arrangements include foreign partners. The conduct of international business introduces other risks into our operations, including changing economic 48 conditions, fluctuations in relative currency values, regulation by foreign countries and the potential for unanticipated cost increases resulting from the possible deterioration of political relations. The nature of our international business also makes us subject to the export control regulations of the U.S. Department of State and the Department of Commerce. If these regulations are violated, it could result in monetary penalties and denial of export privileges. We are currently unaware of any violations of export control regulations which are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Critical Accounting Policies Contract Accounting / Revenue Recognition A large part of our business is derived from long term contracts for development, production and service activities which we account for consistent with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) audit and accounting guide, Audits of Federal Government Contractors, the AICPAs Statement of Position No. 81 1, Accounting for Performance of Construction Type and Certain Production Type Contracts, and other relevant revenue recognition accounting literature. We consider the nature of these contracts and the types of products and services provided when we determine the proper accounting for a particular contract. Generally, we record long term fixed price contracts on a percentage of completion basis using units of delivery as the basis to measure progress toward completing the contract and recognizing revenue. For example, we use this method of revenue recognition on our C 130J tactical transport aircraft program, Atlas and Proton launch vehicle programs and Multiple Launch Rocket System program. For certain other long term fixed price contracts that, along with other factors, require us to deliver minimal quantities over a longer period of time or to perform a substantial level of development effort in comparison to the total value of the contract, revenues are recorded when we achieve performance milestones or using the cost to cost method to measure percentage of completion. Under the cost to cost method of accounting, we recognize revenue based on the ratio of costs incurred to our estimate of total costs at completion. As examples, we use this methodology for our F/A 22 Raptor program and the AEGIS Weapons System program. In some instances, long term production programs may require a significant level of development and or a low level of initial production units in their initial phases, but will ultimately require delivery of increased quantities in full rate production stages. In those cases, the revenue recognition methodology may change from the cost to cost method to the units of delivery method after considering, among other factors, production stabilization. We record sales under cost reimbursement type contracts as we incur the costs. Examples of this type of revenue recognition include the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter system development and demonstration (SDD) program and the THAAD missile defense program. The majority of our long term contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, including contracts for sales of military products and services to foreign governments conducted through the U.S. Government (i.e., foreign military sales). 49 As a general rule, we recognize sales and profits earlier in a production cycle when we use the cost to cost and milestone methods of percentage of completion accounting than when we use the units of delivery method. In addition, our profits and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long term government contracts undertaken, the costs incurred in their performance, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. We have accounting policies in place to address these as well as other contractual and business arrangements in accounting for long term contracts. For other information on accounting policies we have in place for recognizing sales and profits, see our discussion under Sales and earnings in Note 1 to the financial statements. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. Contract costs include material, labor and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs. Assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. For contract change orders, claims or similar items, we apply judgment in estimating the amounts and assessing the potential for realization. These amounts are only included in contract value when they can be reliably estimated and realization is considered probable. Incentives and award fees related to performance on contracts, which are generally awarded at the discretion of the customer, as well as penalties related to contract performance, are considered in estimating sales and profit rates. Incentives and penalties are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Award fees are estimated based on actual and anticipated awards. The majority of our sales are driven by pricing based on costs incurred to produce products or perform services under contracts with the U.S. Government, and therefore not necessarily on market based factors. Cost based pricing is determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). The FAR provides guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government contracts. For example, costs such as those related to charitable contributions, advertising, public relations, and stock based compensation programs are unallowable, and therefore not recoverable through sales. In addition, we may enter into agreements with the U.S. Government that address the subjects of allowability and allocability of costs to contracts for specific matters. For example, some of the amounts we spend for groundwater treatment and soil remediation related to discontinued operations and sites operated in prior years are allocated to our current operations as general and administrative costs under agreements reached with the U.S. Government. Products and services provided under long term development and production contracts make up a large portion of our business, and therefore the amounts we record in our financial statements using contract accounting methods and cost accounting standards are material. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. When adjustments in estimated contract revenues or costs are required, any changes from prior estimates are generally included in earnings in the current period. We closely monitor compliance with and the consistent application of our critical accounting policies related to contract accounting. Business segment personnel assess the status 50 of contracts through periodic contract status and performance reviews. Also, regular and recurring evaluations of contract cost, scheduling and technical matters are performed by management personnel who are independent from the business segment performing work under the contract. Costs incurred and allocated to contracts with the U.S. Government are reviewed for compliance with regulatory standards by our personnel, and are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. Post Retirement Benefit Plans Most employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense we record for our employee benefit plans. This is particularly true with income or expense for qualified defined benefit plans (pension plans) because those calculations are sensitive to changes in several key economic assumptions and workforce demographics. We account for our pension plans using Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (FAS 87). Those rules require that the amounts we record, including the income or expense for the plans, be computed using actuarial valuations. These valuations include many assumptions, including assumptions we make relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions we use. The key year end assumptions used to estimate pension income or expense for the following fiscal year are the discount rate, the expected long term rate of return on plan assets and the rate of increase in future compensation levels. We use judgment in reassessing these assumptions each year because we have to consider current market conditions and, in the case of the expected long term rate of return on plan assets, past investment experience, judgments about future market trends, changes in interest rates and equity market performance. We also have to consider factors like the timing and amounts of expected contributions to the plans and benefit payments to plan participants. An example of how changes in these assumptions can affect our financial statements occurred in 2003. As required by FAS 87, we reassessed the discount rate assumption at the end of 2003. Based on our review of interest rates at the end of the year, we lowered our discount rate assumption to 6.25% at year end 2003, versus 6.75% used for 2002 and 7.25% used for 2001. This change, together with other factors such as the effects of the actual return on plan assets over the past few years, resulted in our projecting that the amount of pension expense for 2004 will approximately double as compared to $484 million of expense recorded in 2003. Also, at the end of 2002, we recorded a noncash after tax adjustment of $1.5 billion in the stockholders equity section of our balance sheet to reflect a minimum pension liability for most of our pension plans. The adjustment did not impact earnings, but reduced our stockholders equity. This adjustment is calculated on a plan by plan basis, and is determined by comparing the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for each plan to the fair value of that plans assets. The amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets, after adjusting for previously recorded accrued or prepaid pension cost for the plan, must be recorded as a minimum pension liability, with a corresponding increase in an intangible asset, if appropriate, and a reduction to stockholders equity, consistent with FAS 87. In 2003, we reduced the 51 adjustment recorded in stockholders equity in 2002 by about $300 million, mainly due to favorable asset returns for the year. Again, this minimum pension liability adjustment did not impact 2003 earnings. The amount of the minimum pension liability is computed at each year end and could potentially continue to reduce the amount recorded in 2002 in future periods if financial markets improve and interest rates increase, or could potentially increase if financial market performance and interest rates decline. U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) is a major factor in determining our funding requirements and governs the extent to which our pension costs are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the U.S. Government. Funded amounts are recovered over time through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts, and therefore are recognized in our net sales. The total funding requirement for our pension plans under CAS in 2003 was $184 million. For 2004, we expect our funding requirements under CAS to increase. Also in 2004, funding in addition to the amount calculated under CAS will likely be required under Internal Revenue Code rules. Any additional amounts computed under those rules are considered to be prepayments under the CAS rules, and therefore will be recorded on our balance sheet and recovered in future periods. In December 2003, we made a discretionary prepayment of $450 million to the pension trust, the majority of which will reduce our cash funding requirements for 2004. There is currently proposed legislation that would change the measurement of the liabilities that are included in the funding calculations for 2004. Our funding projections assume that this proposed legislation will be passed and become effective for 2004. We would expect our projected funding requirements for 2004 to increase if the proposed legislation does not become law. The FAS/CAS pension adjustment represents the difference between pension expense or income calculated in accordance with FAS 87 and pension costs calculated and funded in accordance with CAS. Since the CAS expense is recovered through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts, and therefore recognized in a particular segments net sales, the results of operations of our segments only include pension expense as determined and funded in accordance with CAS rules. Accordingly, the FAS/CAS adjustment is an amount included in the reconciliation of total segment operating profit to consolidated operating profit under GAAP. See the discussion of Unallocated Corporate (Expense) Income, Net under Discussion of Business Segments. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed into law by the President in December 2003. Historically, Medicare has not provided prescription drug benefits. Under the new law, Medicare will provide a prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006. The Act also provides for a federal subsidy to eligible sponsors of retiree health care benefits. At this point, there is a lack of clarity regarding how some of the key provisions of the Act will be applied and administered, and how it will impact the prescription drug benefits that we provide our retirees. In addition, specific authoritative guidance on the accounting for the federal subsidy is still pending and that guidance, when issued, could require a change to previously reported information. In recognition of these uncertainties, the Financial Accounting Standards Board decided to allow companies to defer recognition of the impact of the new law on the benefit obligations they provide their retirees, which we have elected to do. Accordingly, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) for our retiree health care benefits, as well as the net periodic postretirement benefit cost, included in our financial statements and the accompanying notes do not reflect the effects of the Act. It is expected that 52 any such change would result in some reduction to the APBO and the net periodic postretirement benefits cost. Environmental Matters We are a party to various agreements, proceedings and potential proceedings for environmental clean up issues, including matters at various sites where we have been designated a potentially responsible party (PRP) by the Environmental Protection Agency or by a state agency. We record financial statement accruals for environmental matters in the period that it becomes probable that a liability has been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated (see the discussion under Environmental matters in Note 1 to the financial statements). Judgment is required when we develop assumptions and estimate costs expected to be incurred for environmental remediation activities due to, along with other factors, difficulties in assessing the extent of environmental remediation to be performed, complex environmental regulations and remediation technologies, and agreements between PRPs to share in the cost of remediation as discussed below. We enter into agreements (e.g., administrative orders, consent decrees) which document the extent and timing of our obligation. We are also involved in remediation activities at environmental sites where formal agreements exist but do not quantify the extent and timing of our obligation. Environmental clean up activities usually cover several years, which makes estimating the costs more judgmental due to, for example, changing remediation technologies. To determine the costs related to clean up sites, we have to assess the extent of contamination, the appropriate technology to be used to accomplish the remediation and continually evolving regulatory environmental standards. We consider these factors in our estimates of the timing and amount of any future costs that may be required for remediation actions. In cases where a date to complete activities at a particular environmental site cannot be estimated by reference to agreements or otherwise, we project costs over a reasonable time frame not to exceed 20 years. Given the level of judgment and estimation which has to occur, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if different assumptions were used or if circumstances were to change (e.g., a change in environmental standards). If we are ultimately found to have liability at those sites where we have been designated a PRP, we expect that the actual costs of remediation will be shared with other liable PRPs. Generally, PRPs that are ultimately determined to be responsible parties are strictly liable for site clean up and usually agree among themselves to share, on an allocated basis, the costs and expenses for investigation and remediation of hazardous materials. Under existing environmental laws, however, responsible parties are jointly and severally liable and, therefore, we are potentially liable for the full cost of funding such remediation. In the unlikely event that we were required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, the statutory framework provides that we may pursue rights of contribution from the other PRPs. The amounts we record do not reflect the fact that we may recover some of the environmental costs we have incurred through insurance or from other PRPs, which we are required to pursue by agreement and U.S. Government regulation. Under agreements reached with the U.S. Government, some of the amounts we spend for groundwater treatment and soil remediation are allocated to our operations as general and administrative costs. Under existing government regulations, these and other environmental 53 expenditures relating to our U.S. Government business, after deducting any recoveries received from insurance or other PRPs, are allowable in establishing prices of our products and services. As a result, a substantial amount of the expenditures we incur are being included in our sales and cost of sales according to U.S. Government agreement or regulation. At the end of 2003 and 2002, the total amount of liabilities recorded on our balance sheet for environmental matters was approximately $425 million and $445 million, respectively. About two thirds of the liability recorded at the end of 2003 related to sites in Redlands, Burbank and Glendale, California, and in Great Neck, New York, mainly for remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. The remainder of the liability related to other properties (including current operating facilities and certain facilities operated in prior years) for which the financial exposure can be estimated. We have recorded an asset for the portion of environmental costs that are probable of future recovery in pricing of our products and services for U.S. Government businesses. The amount that is expected to be allocated to our commercial businesses has been expensed through cost of sales. Any recoveries we receive would reduce the allocated amounts included in our future U.S. Government sales and cost of sales. Acquisition and Divestiture Activities In November 2003, we completed transactions resulting in our acquisition of the majority of the federal government information technology (IT) business of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (ACS), and ACS concurrent acquisition of our commercial IT business. The total purchase price related to our acquisition of ACS federal government IT business, including transaction related costs, was approximately $585 million. As part of our accounting for the acquisition of the federal IT business, we recorded intangible assets totaling about $112 million related to contracts acquired and a covenant not to compete which will be amortized over 5 to 7 year periods, and goodwill of about $460 million. This acquisition expands our capabilities in business process outsourcing and managed services, thereby enhancing our ability to support civil and defense government agencies. The divestiture of our commercial IT business to ACS resulted in a cash payment to us from ACS of approximately $110 million and a gain, net of state income taxes, of $15 million. The gain increased net earnings by approximately $8 million ($0.02 per diluted share). The operations of the business acquired are included in the Information & Technology Services (I&TS) business segment. The majority of the operations divested had been included in the I&TS segment, with the remainder from the Information Systems & Solutions business segment. In September 2003, we announced that Lockheed Martin and The Titan Corporation had entered into a merger agreement for Lockheed Martin to acquire Titan. The announced value of the transaction, including the assumption of Titans long term debt, is approximately $2.4 billion before accumulated tax benefits. Under the merger agreement, stockholders of Titan may elect to receive $22 per share in cash, an equivalent amount of Lockheed Martin common stock based on an exchange rate or a combination of cash and stock, subject to the allocation procedures set forth in the merger agreement. The merger agreement provides that 50% of Titans outstanding common stock must be exchanged for Lockheed Martin common stock, and 50% of the Titan common stock must be exchanged for cash. The exchange rate will be determined by dividing $22 by the average trading price of Lockheed Martin common stock over a 10 day trading period, subject to upper and lower limits, or collars, of $58 and $46 per share. Under certain circumstances, the exchange rate for the stock portion of the merger consideration will be fixed based on the upper collar of $58 per share or the lower collar of $46 per share. Upon consummation of the merger, we would expect to issue between 16 and 22 million shares of our common stock, depending on the exchange rate. We plan to finance the cash portion of the transaction principally using existing cash and short term investment holdings. 54 On February 13, 2004, Lockheed Martin and Titan announced that representatives of both companies had initiated meetings with the Department of Justice and the SEC to advise of an internal review relating to certain agreements between Titan and international consultants and related payments in foreign countries. The SEC informed Lockheed Martin and Titan that it has commenced an investigation into whether payments by Titan were made in violation of applicable law. Lockheed Martin is independently reviewing Titans payments to international consultants to assess whether all conditions to the closing of the proposed merger will be satisfied. Lockheed Martin has requested that Titan afford it access to all relevant information related to its relationships with international consultants so that the review may be completed in advance of the Titan stockholders meeting. Titan is cooperating with this request, as well as conducting its own review. During the course of our review, we learned of allegations that improper payments were made, or items of value were provided, by consultants for Titan or its subsidiaries directly or indirectly to foreign officials. The alleged payments and provision of items of value, if true, raise questions concerning whether there has been a violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We also are reviewing with Titan whether payments made by Titan to consultants were accurately reflected on Titans books and records. Our review is ongoing. Together with Titan, we disclosed the allegations to the SEC and the Department of Justice. During that meeting, Lockheed Martin and Titan were informed that the Department of Justice has initiated a criminal inquiry into this matter. Closing of the Titan transaction is subject to approval of Titans stockholders, the absence of any material adverse change in Titan and other conditions set forth in the merger agreement. Either Lockheed Martin or Titan may terminate the merger agreement if the merger is not completed by March 31, 2004, provided that the party seeking to terminate the agreement is not then in material breach of its obligations under the merger agreement in a manner that has contributed to the failure to consummate the merger. The full text of the merger agreement is publicly available as an attachment to the proxy statement/prospectus mailed to Titan stockholders and as an exhibit to Lockheed Martins 2003 Form 10 K. On an ongoing basis, we plan to continue to explore the sale of various non core businesses, passive equity investments and surplus real estate. If we were to decide to sell any such holdings or real estate, the resulting gains, if any, would be recorded when the transactions are consummated and losses, if any, would be recorded when they are probable and estimable. We also continue to review our businesses on an ongoing basis to identify ways to improve organizational effectiveness and performance, and to focus on our core business strategy. Results of Operations Since our operating cycle is long term and involves many types of development and production contracts with varying production delivery schedules, the results of operations of a particular year, or year to year comparisons of recorded sales and profits, may not be indicative of future operating results. The following discussions of comparative results among periods should be viewed in this context. Continuing Operations The following discussion of net sales and operating results will provide an overview of our operations by focusing on key elements set forth in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Discussion of Business Segments which follows, will review the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated results for 2003, 2002 and 2001. For 2003, net sales were $31.8 billion, a 20% increase over 2002 sales. Sales for 2002 were $26.6 billion, an increase of 11% compared to 2001. Sales increased in all segments as compared to the prior year for the second straight year. The U.S. Government is our largest customer, accounting for about 78% of our sales for 2003, compared to 80% in 2002 and 78% in 2001. 55 For 2003, 2002 and 2001 the items in the table below, among other things, were included in Unallocated Corporate (expense) income, net (see the related Discussion of Business Segments below). (In millions, except per share data) Operating (Loss) Profit Net (Loss) Earnings (Loss) Earnings perDiluted Share Year ended December 31, 2003 Loss on early retirement of debt $ (146 ) $ (96 ) $ (0.21 ) Charge related to exit from the commercial mail sorting business (41 ) (27 ) (0.06 ) Gain on partial reversal of Space Imaging guarantee 19 13 0.03 Gain on sale of the commercial IT business 15 8 0.02 $ (153 ) $ (102 ) $ (0.22 ) Year ended December 31, 2002 Write down of telecommunications investments $ (776 ) $ (504 ) $ (1.12 ) Charge related to a Russian launch services provider (173 ) (112 ) (0.25 ) Write down of investment in Space Imaging and charge related to recording of guarantee (163 ) (106 ) (0.23 ) Benefit from R&D tax credit settlement 90 0.20 $ (1,112 ) $ (632 ) $ (1.40 ) Year ended December 31, 2001 Write off of investment in Astrolink and related costs $ (387 ) $ (267 ) $ (0.62 ) Write down of investment in Loral Space (361 ) (235 ) (0.54 ) Other charges related to global telecommunications (176 ) (117 ) (0.27 ) Impairment charge related to Americom Asia Pacific (100 ) (65 ) (0.15 ) Loss on early repayment of debt (55 ) (36 ) (0.08 ) Gain on sale of surplus real estate 111 72 0.17 Other activities, net (5 ) (3 ) (0.01 ) $ (973 ) $ (651 ) $ (1.50 ) Our operating profit for 2003 was $2.0 billion, an increase of 74% compared to 2002. Our operating profit for 2002 was $1.2 billion, an increase of 39% compared to 2001. The results for 2001 included amortization expense of $274 million for goodwill and certain other intangibles that was not included in 2002 or 2003 due to the adoption of FAS 142. See Note 1 to the financial statements for information regarding our adoption of FAS 142. Interest expense for 2003 was $487 million, $94 million lower than the amount for 2002. This was primarily the result of reductions in our debt portfolio and the favorable impact of having issued $1.0 billion of convertible notes in August 2003 to replace higher cost debt. Interest expense for 2002 was $581 million, $119 million lower than in 2001 mainly due to reductions in our debt portfolio and the benefit from interest rate swap agreements. 56 Our effective tax rates were 31.3% for 2003, 7.7% for 2002 and 67.7% for 2001. The tax rate for 2002 was reduced by a $90 million tax benefit related to a research and development tax credit settlement, and the rate for 2001 was increased by non deductible goodwill that was being amortized for financial reporting purposes. The effective tax rates for all periods were reduced by tax benefits related to export sales, changes to prior year liabilities arising from tax refund initiatives and adjustments to true up actual tax return liabilities. The 2002 tax rate was also reduced by a favorable IRS audit settlement. Congress is considering new tax legislation that would repeal the extraterritorial income exclusion relating to export sales and enact new rules providing for a tax reduction on profits from the sale of products manufactured in the United States. If such legislation were passed, we do not expect that it would adversely impact the Corporations effective tax rate. In the event that this or other tax legislation is enacted, its impact on our deferred tax balances and effective tax rate will be recognized as of the date the new tax rules are enacted. For 2003, we reported net earnings from continuing operations of $1.1 billion ($2.34 per diluted share) compared to $533 million ($1.18 per diluted share) for 2002. In 2001, we reported earnings from continuing operations of $43 million ($0.10 per diluted share). Discontinued Operations During 2003, the activities of the remaining telecommunications service business held for sale were immaterial and had no impact on earnings. We reported total losses from discontinued operations of $33 million ($0.07 per diluted share) in 2002 and $1.1 billion ($2.52 per diluted share) in 2001. Operating losses of the businesses included in discontinued operations totaled $33 million ($0.07 per diluted share) in 2002 and $62 million ($0.14 per diluted share) in 2001. Discontinued operations for 2002 included losses incurred for wind down activities related to the global telecommunications services businesses, offset by the reversal of a reserve associated with the sale of Lockheed Martin IMS Corporation (IMS). When recording the sale of IMS in 2001, we established transaction related reserves to address various indemnity provisions in the sale agreement. The risks associated with certain of these indemnity provisions were resolved and $39 million, net of taxes, was recognized through discontinued operations in 2002. Included in the 2001 loss from discontinued operations was an after tax charge of $1.3 billion ($3.09 per diluted share) related to our decision to exit the global telecommunications services business. The 2001 results also included an after tax gain of $309 million ($0.71 per diluted share) from the sale of IMS. Net Earnings (Loss) We reported net earnings of $1.1 billion, or $2.34 per diluted share, in 2003, compared to net earnings of $500 million, or $1.11 per diluted share, in 2002 and a net loss of $1 billion ($2.42 per diluted share) in 2001. 57 Discussion of Business Segments As described more fully in Note 16 to the financial statements, we announced the formation of Integrated Systems & Solutions (IS&S), a new business segment, in 2003. With the formation of IS&S, the former Systems Integration business segment is now named Electronic Systems. Also in 2003, we changed the name of our Technology Services business segment to Information & Technology Services (I&TS) to better reflect the scope of its activities. We operate in five business segments: Aeronautics, Electronic Systems, Space Systems, IS&S, and I&TS. The following segment information has been reclassified from amounts previously reported to reflect the current business segments. Net sales have increased in each of our business segments over the last 3 years. Our demonstrated performance and broad portfolio of capabilities have contributed to this growth. In the Aeronautics business segment, sales have increased as we ramped up activities on the F 35 program, delivered more F 16 aircraft and entered low rate production on the F/A 22 program. During 2003, we increased deliveries of F 16s to 62 aircraft, from the 21 aircraft delivered in 2002, reflecting the backlog associated with several of our international F 16 customers. We anticipate the F 16 deliveries to be in the range of 70 75 aircraft over the next 2 years. The C 130J program was awarded a multi year award for 60 aircraft during 2003. This award solidifies our production planning and long term supplier pricing as we complete the initial 119 aircraft program and produce aircraft under the new award. We expect the program will return to profitability in 2004. The Electronic Systems business segment has a broad portfolio of products and services. Many of its activities involve a combination of both development and production contracts with varying delivery schedules. We expect this mix of contract types to continue in the short term, and it may affect the year to year comparisons of segment margins and the operating results of the lines of business within Electronic Systems. The Space Systems business segment is a key supplier of space solutions, primarily to our U.S. Government customers. Satellites and Strategic & Defensive Missile System activities, primarily for our U.S. Government customers, are expected to experience steady growth as we work on our existing backlog and any new awards that we may receive. However, the commercial satellite and launch vehicle industries continue to be very competitive. We did receive new orders for both commercial satellites and launch vehicles in 2003; however, the majority of those orders relate to replacement satellites versus an expansion of telecommunications capacity. The Satellites line of business received 5 new commercial satellite orders during 2003. The Launch Services line of business received 11 new awards for launch missions, including 7 Proton, 1 Atlas V and 3 EELV missions. To date, the segment has received 18 EELV mission assignments from the U.S. Government, including the 3 under contract. The activities in the Titan program will continue, though at a lower level than prior years, as we work to complete the remaining 3 missions. The IS&S and the I&TS business segments have strengthened their capabilities in providing information technology services to defense, intelligence and other government customers. We expect continued strong growth in providing information technology services to government agencies. 58 In the following tables of financial data, the total of the operating results of the business segments is reconciled to the corresponding consolidated amount. With respect to the caption Operating profit, the reconciling item Unallocated Corporate (expense) income, net includes the FAS/CAS pension adjustment (see discussion below), earnings and losses from equity investments (mainly telecommunications), interest income, costs for stock based compensation programs, the effects of items not considered part of managements evaluation of segment operating performance, and Corporate costs not allocated to the operating segments, as well as other miscellaneous Corporate activities. The FAS/CAS pension adjustment represents the difference between pension expense or income calculated for financial reporting purposes in accordance with FAS 87, and pension costs calculated and funded in accordance with U.S. Government CAS, which are reflected in the business segment results. CAS is a major factor in determining our pension funding requirements, and governs the extent of allocability and recoverability of pension costs on government contracts. The CAS expense is recovered through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts, and therefore recognized in segment net sales. The results of operations of the segments only include pension expense as determined and funded in accordance with CAS rules. This table shows net sales and operating profit of the business segments and reconciles to the consolidated total. 59 (In millions) 2003 2002 2001 Net sales Aeronautics $ 10,202 $ 6,471 $ 5,355 Electronic Systems 8,991 8,685 8,079 Space Systems 6,021 5,287 4,801 Integrated Systems & Solutions 3,420 3,015 2,970 Information & Technology Services 3,174 3,104 2,763 Total business segments 31,808 26,562 23,968 Other 16 16 22 $ 31,824 $ 26,578 $ 23,990 Operating profit Aeronautics $ 690 $ 448 $ 329 Electronic Systems 858 875 816 Space Systems 403 279 225 Integrated Systems & Solutions 291 241 225 Information & Technology Services 226 177 114 Total business segments 2,468 2,020 1,709 Unallocated Corporate (expense), net (449 ) (862 ) (602 ) Impact of FAS 142 adoption (274 ) $ 2,019 $ 1,158 $ 833 The following segment discussions also include information relating to negotiated backlog for each segment. Total negotiated backlog was $76.9 billion at December 31, 2003. This amount included both funded backlog (unfilled firm orders for our products and services for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer Congress in the case of U.S. Government agencies) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not yet been appropriated). Negotiated backlog does not include unexercised options or task orders to be issued under indefinite delivery / indefinite quantity (IDIQ) type contracts. Funded backlog was $39.1 billion at December 31, 2003. The Aeronautics segment generally includes fewer programs that have much larger sales and operating results than programs included in the other segments. Therefore, due to the large number of comparatively smaller programs in the remaining segments, the discussions of the results of operations of these business segments generally focus on lines of business within the segments. The following tables of financial information and related discussions of the results of operations of our business segments are consistent with the presentation of segment information in Note 16 to the financial statements. 60 Aeronautics Aeronautics operating results included the following: (In millions) 2003 2002 2001 Net sales $ 10,202 $ 6,471 $ 5,355 Operating profit 690 448 329 Backlog at year end 37,580 35,477 36,149 Net sales for Aeronautics increased by 58% in 2003 compared to 2002 due to growth in the Combat Aircraft and Air Mobility lines of business. Approximately half the growth in Combat Aircraft was due to higher volume on the F 35 Joint Strike Fighter program with a majority of the remaining growth attributable to F 16 programs as a result of increased deliveries. In 2003, 62 F 16s were delivered, 41 more than in 2002. Increased C 130J deliveries contributed $470 million to the year over year growth in sales. There were 15 C 130J deliveries in 2003 compared to 8 deliveries in 2002. Net sales for Aeronautics increased by 21% in 2002 compared to 2001 due to growth in the Combat Aircraft line of business. Approximately 60% of the growth was due to higher volume on the F 35 program with the majority of the remaining increase attributable to the F/A 22 program. Sales in Air Mobility declined $180 million year over year, as 7 fewer C 130J deliveries more than offset sales growth in other Air Mobility programs. Operating profit for the segment increased by 54% in 2003 compared to the 2002 periods. This increase was primarily due to the impact of the volume increases in Combat Aircraft and performance on other programs. Operating profit for the segment increased by 36% in 2002 compared to 2001. This increase primarily resulted from the higher volume in Combat Aircraft. Operating profit for 2002 was negatively affected by $30 million in charges recorded for performance issues on an aircraft modification contract and a change in estimate adjustment related to cost growth on F/A 22 activities. In all periods, the C 130J deliveries do not impact operating profit due to the previously disclosed suspension of earnings recognition on the program. Backlog increased in 2003 as compared to 2002 primarily as a result of booking the C 130J U.S. Government multi year and international F 16 contracts. 61 Electronic Systems Electronic Systems operating results included the following: (In millions) 2003 2002 2001 Net sales $ 8,991 $ 8,685 $ 8,079 Operating profit 858 875 816 Backlog at year end 17,339 16,034 15,333 Net sales for Electronic Systems increased 4% in 2003 as compared to 2002. Sales increases in Missiles & Fire Control (M&FC) and Maritime Systems & Sensors (MS2) more than offset a decline at Platform, Training & Transportation Systems (PT&TS). Increased volume in air defense and tactical missile programs accounted for the majority of M&FCs $250 million sales growth over 2002. In MS2, the $155 million increase in sales was primarily due to higher volume on radar and surface systems programs. The PT&TS decline of $100 million was the result of lower volume on transportation and security system activities. The majority of this decline is attributable to the 2002 rapid deployment of Transportation Security Administration (TSA) programs. Net sales for Electronic Systems increased 8% in 2002 as compared to 2001. Sales increased as a result of higher volume in all three of the segments lines of business. Increased sales at M&FC of $285 million were mainly due to higher volumes in air defense and on certain tactical missile programs. PT&TS sales increased by $175 million mainly as a result of volume on transportation and security system activities (primarily the TSA programs), which offset declines on platform integration programs. MS2 sales increased by $145 million primarily due to higher volumes on surface systems and radar systems programs. Operating profit for the segment decreased by 2% in 2003 compared to 2002. PT&TS operating profit declined by $40 million due to a mix of program maturity and initial development activities on platform integration programs, as well as the impact of the decline in volume in transportation and security system activities. These decreases more than offset a $25 million increase in operating profit primarily attributable to higher volume on air defense programs at M&FC. Operating profit for the segment increased by 7% in 2002 compared to 2001. The increase in operating profit was primarily driven by higher volumes at M&FC and PT&TS as noted above in the discussion of sales. The increase in backlog during 2003 over 2002 resulted from increased orders on development programs which more than offset declines in orders on mature production programs. 62 Space Systems Space Systems operating results included the following: (In millions) 2003 2002 2001 Net sales $ 6,021 $ 5,287 $ 4,801 Operating profit 403 279 225 Backlog at year end 12,813 10,701 10,797 Net sales for Space Systems increased by 14% in 2003 compared to 2002. Sales increased by $570 million in Satellites and $140 million in Strategic & Defensive Missile Systems (S&DMS) compared to 2002. The growth in Satellites is due to higher volume on government satellite programs. The growth in S&DMS is attributable to increases in both fleet ballistic missile and missile defense activities. In Launch Services, increased Titan activities offset lower sales resulting from a decline in Proton deliveries (2 in 2003 and 4 in 2002). There were 5 Atlas launches in both 2003 and 2002. Net sales for Space Systems increased by 10% in 2002 compared to 2001. The increase in sales for 2002 resulted from higher volume in Satellites of $520 million, due to government satellite activities. This growth was partially offset by sales declines in both S&DMS and Launch Services. Operating profit for the segment increased 44% in 2003 as compared to 2002. Satellites operating profit increased by $70 million over the 2002 period mainly due to improved performance on commercial satellite activities and volume increases on government satellite programs, including the impact of a $30 million charge recorded in 2003 related to a handling incident on a NASA satellite program. In Launch Services, operating profit increased by $35 million. The increase was primarily due to improved performance and risk retirement activities on the maturing Titan program, which were partially offset by the impact of a decline in Proton launches in 2003. S&DMS operating profit increased by $20 million due to the impact of the volume increases discussed above. Operating profit for the segment increased 24% in 2002 as compared to 2001. Satellites operating profit increased $150 million due to reduced commercial satellite losses and the impact of volume increases in government satellite programs when compared to 2001. The commercial satellite manufacturing losses declined $100 million in 2002 as operating performance improved (including the benefit of closing out certain manufacturing contracts) and satellite deliveries increased. Also, in the first quarter of 2001, a $40 million loss provision was recorded on certain commercial satellite manufacturing contracts. The Satellites increase was partially offset by an $85 million decline in profitability in Launch Services. Reduced volume on government launch vehicle programs, primarily driven by a decrease in Titan activities, accounted for almost all of the decrease in year over year operating profit. In 2002, operating profit on Atlas and Proton launch vehicles declined $10 million when compared to 2001. This decrease was primarily due to lower profitability of $55 million on the 3 additional launches in 2002, additional charges of $60 million (net of a favorable contract adjustment of $20 million) for market and pricing pressures and included the adverse effect of a $35 million adjustment for commercial launch vehicle contract settlement costs. The 2001 results included charges for market and pricing pressures, which reduced that years operating profit by $145 million. 63 The increase in backlog during 2003 as compared to 2002 was mainly due to an increase in orders for launch services, commercial satellites, and missile defense and classified activities. Integrated Systems & Solutions Integrated Systems & Solutions operating results included the following: (In millions) 2003 2002 2001 Net sales $ 3,420 $ 3,015 $ 2,970 Operating profit 291 241 225 Backlog at year end 4,350 3,556 3,874 Net sales for IS&S increased by 13% in 2003 as compared to 2002 and by 2% for 2002 over 2001. For both comparative periods, the sales increases were primarily attributable to a higher volume of intelligence, defense and information assurance activities. Operating profit for the segment increased 21% in 2003 as compared to 2002 and by 7% for 2002 over 2001. The increases in operating profit for both comparative periods were primarily attributable to higher volume and performance improvements on the activities described above. Information & Technology Services Information & Technology Services operating results included the following: (In millions) 2003 2002 2001 Net sales $ 3,174 $ 3,104 $ 2,763 Operating profit 226 177 114 Backlog at year end 4,817 4,617 5,116 Net sales for I&TS increased by 2% in 2003 as compared to 2002. The sales increase for the year was mainly the result of volume increases of $110 million in Information Technology, which more than offset lower sales volume totaling $40 million on Defense Services and NASA programs. Information Technologys results included the net impact of our purchase of the ACS federal government IT business and the concurrent sale of our commercial IT business in November 2003. Net sales for I&TS increased by 12% in 2002 compared to 2001. For the year, the increase in sales was primarily attributable to growth of $240 million in Information Technology, due to increased volume on existing programs and the acquisition of OAO Corporation in December 2001, and $160 million in Defense Services. This growth was partially offset by a decline in sales related to volume on NASA programs. 64 Operating profit for the segment increased by 28% in 2003 as compared to 2002. The operating profit increase was mainly due to the higher volume in Information Technology and improved performance across all lines of business. Operating profit for the segment increased by 55% in 2002 compared to 2001. The increase is mainly due to higher volumes and improved performance (primarily on commercial programs) in Information Technology. These increases were partially offset by a combined decrease in operating profit of $30 million on NASA and Defense Services programs. Backlog increased mainly due to the fourth quarter 2003 ACS acquisition and as a result of a higher volume of Information Technology orders. The I&TS segment has a business unit that provides services to the government of Argentina. At December 31, 2003, we had net investments in and advances totaling about $20 million. While we expect that these amounts will be recoverable, there is always the potential that further devaluation of the Argentine peso, deterioration in the Argentine economy or other factors could adversely affect our ability to recover those amounts. Unallocated Corporate (Expense) Income, Net The following table shows the components of Unallocated Corporate (expense) income, net. For a discussion of the FAS/CAS pension adjustment and other types of items included in Unallocated Corporate (expense) income, net, see Note 16 to the financial statements. For information about items not considered in segment operating performance, see the table under the previous discussion of continuing operations. (In millions) 2003 2002 2001 FAS/CAS pension adjustment $ (300 ) $ 243 $ 360 Items not considered in segment operating performance (153 ) (1,112 ) (973 ) Other, net 4 7 11 $ (449 ) $ (862 ) $ (602 ) The difference between pension costs calculated and funded in accordance with CAS and pension expense or income determined in accordance with FAS 87 is not included in segment operating results and therefore is a reconciling item between operating profit from the business segments and consolidated operating profit (FAS/CAS adjustment). The CAS funding amount is allocated among the business segments and is included as an expense item in the segments cost of goods sold. A majority of the cost is also passed along to our customers through contract pricing, and is consequently included in the segments sales. 65 The change in the FAS/CAS pension adjustment in 2003 was mainly due to the Corporation reporting FAS pension expense versus FAS pension income in 2002. The following table shows the CAS funding that is included as expense in the segments operating results, the related FAS (expense) income, and the resulting FAS/CAS adjustment: (In millions) 2003 2002 2001 FAS 87 (expense) income $ (484 ) $ 156 $ 354 Less: CAS expense and funding (184 ) (87 ) (6 ) FAS/CAS pension adjustment (expense) income $ (300 ) $ 243 $ 360 Liquidity and Cash Flows Our management has set forth strategic cash deployment objectives to help ensure that we keep a focus toward growing our core business and increasing shareholder value, and that we are in a position to take advantage of opportunities to do so when they arise. Those objectives include internal investment in our business (e.g., capital expenditures, independent research and development), share repurchases, increases in dividends, debt reduction and management, and acquisitions of businesses that will complement our core operations. The following discussion highlights our cash deployment activities over the past three years as well as our future plans. Operating Activities Our operating cash flow continues to be the primary source of funds for financing our activities. Cash from operations amounted to $1.8 billion in 2003, $2.3 billion in 2002 and $1.8 billion in 2001. Our earnings, adjusted for non cash items such as depreciation, amortization and impairment charges, were the driving force behind these cash flows. Our working capital has remained relatively stable the last 2 years, even though our sales have increased by 20 percent in 2003 and 11 percent in 2002 when compared to the prior year. We attribute this to our continued discipline in managing our cash conversion cycle, including the negotiation of performance based progress payment or advance payment terms in our contracts, inventory management, and billing and collection activities. Cash from operations is net of internal investments we have made in our business relative to independent research and development and bid and proposal activities aggregating $903 million in 2003, $830 million in 2002 and $679 million in 2001. In December 2003, we made a discretionary prepayment of $450 million to our defined benefit pension plan trust that reduced cash from operations, the majority of which will reduce our cash funding requirements for 2004. Our 2002 cash from operations included $117 million from the settlement of a research and development tax credit claim, while in 2001 we paid $655 million of income taxes related to divested businesses. We expect cash from operations to continue to be strong over the next 2 years. 66 Investing Activities Capital expenditures Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment amounted to $687 million in 2003, $662 million in 2002 and $619 million in 2001. We expect our capital expenditures to increase over the next 2 years consistent with the expected growth in our business. Acquisitions and divestitures In addition to our internal investment in capital expenditures and independent research and development activities, we also selectively identify businesses for potential acquisition. During 2003, we paid approximately $645 million for two businesses that will strengthen our capabilities in providing IT services to defense, intelligence and other government customers. Relative to our pending acquisition of Titan, we plan to finance the cash portion of the transaction principally using existing cash and short term investment holdings. During the past 3 years, we have divested non core businesses, primarily those serving commercial markets. We received cash of approximately $110 million in 2003 from the sale of our commercial IT business, $134 million in 2002 from the sale of certain discontinued telecommunications businesses and $825 million in 2001 from the sale of IMS. In December 2003, Inmarsat Ventures, Ltd., a venture in which we held a 14% interest, was acquired by a consortium of private equity firms in a leveraged buyout transaction. In exchange for our interest, we received cash of $114 million and a 14% ownership interest in the new Inmarsat holding company, Inmarsat Holdings, Ltd., valued at $96 million. We recorded a deferred gain of $42 million from the transaction, which we would expect to recognize at such time as we sell all or a portion of our interest in the new company. Financing Activities Issuance and repayment of long term debt Cash provided from operations has been our principal source of funds to reduce our long term debt. In 2003, we issued $1.0 billion of floating rate convertible senior debentures that bear interest at three month LIBOR less 25 basis points, reset quarterly (the interest rate on this debt at December 31, 2003 was 0.93%). We used the proceeds from that issuance, along with cash provided by operations, to repay $2.2 billion of debt in advance of its maturity and retire other high cost debt. We used $175 million of cash for debt issuance and repayment costs to complete those transactions. Interest rates on the debt we retired early ranged from 7.25% to 8.375%. We also used $110 million in 2002 and $2.6 billion in 2001, to repay our long term debt. The result has been a decrease in our total debt balance from $9.9 billion at December 31, 2000 to $6.2 billion at December 31, 2003, and a decrease in interest paid from $707 million in 2001 to $519 million in 2003. We expect interest payments to decline further in 2004 when the full impact of the debt repayment and refinancing activities in 2003 will be reflected in our operating results. Scheduled debt maturities are $136 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2005. We currently do not expect any material early repayments of long term debt over the next 2 years. Share repurchases and dividends We also used cash to opportunistically repurchase 10.7 million of our common shares for $482 million in 2003 and 1.0 million of our common shares for $50 million in 2002. These transactions were pursuant to our share repurchase program initiated in 2002. In February 2004, an additional 20 million shares were authorized for repurchase under the program. As a result of the increase, a total of 31.3 million shares may be repurchased in the future under the program. Shareholders were paid dividends of $261 million in 2003, $199 million in 2002 and $192 million in 2001. We paid a quarterly dividend of $0.12 per share during each of the first three quarters of 2003 and $0.22 per share for the last quarter of 2003. Quarterly dividends of $0.11 per share were paid during 2002 and 2001. We are currently expecting to deploy a majority of the cash we generate from operations over the next 2 years (after capital expenditures) to repurchase shares and pay dividends. 67 Capital Structure and Resources At December 31, 2003, our total long term debt amounted to $6.2 billion. Our long term debt is mainly in the form of publicly issued notes and debentures. The newly issued $1.0 billion of convertible debentures discussed in more detail below has a floating interest rate based on LIBOR. The balance of our long term debt bears interest at fixed rates. Through our repayment activities, our long term debt balance has declined from a balance of $9.9 billion at December 31, 2000. During the last 3 years, we improved our debt to total capital ratio from 58% at December 31, 2000 to 48% at December 31, 2003. Our stockholders equity amounted to $6.8 billion at December 31, 2003, an increase of about $900 million from December 31, 2002. Net earnings, stock plan activities and a reduction of our minimum pension liability, more than offset our payment of dividends and share repurchase activities. The $1.0 billion in floating rate convertible debentures we issued in 2003 are due in 2033. They bear interest at a rate equal to three month LIBOR less 25 basis points, reset quarterly. Accordingly, to the extent three month LIBOR increases or decreases by 1%, our interest expense would increase or decrease by $10 million on a pretax basis. Interest on the debentures is payable quarterly through August 15, 2008, after which the interest will accrue as part of the value of the debenture and will be payable, along with the principal amount, at maturity. The debentures are convertible by their holders into our common stock in certain limited circumstances as outlined in the indenture agreement. Upon conversion, we have the right to deliver, in lieu of common stock, cash or a combination of cash and common stock. We have the right to redeem any or all of the debentures at any time after August 15, 2008. In 2003, we repaid a total of $2.2 billion of long term debt, including scheduled and early debt repayments, and the repayment of $130 million related to our guarantee of Space Imaging, LLCs borrowings under its credit facility. We repaid several issuances of our long term debt early through the completion of tender offers, redemption of certain callable debt securities and open market purchases of other outstanding debt issuances. Through these activities, we repaid debt totaling $1.4 billion with interest rates ranging from 7.25% to 8.375% and maturities ranging from 2006 to 2026. In connection with the early repayments, we recorded losses in 2003, net of state income tax benefits, totaling $146 million. The losses reduced net earnings by $96 million ($0.21 per diluted share). At the end of 2003, we had in place a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility under which no borrowings were outstanding. This credit facility will expire in November 2006. Borrowings under the credit facility would be unsecured and bear interest at rates based, at our option, on the Eurodollar rate or a bank Base Rate (as defined). Each banks obligation to make loans under the credit facility is subject to, among other things, our compliance with various representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants limiting our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to encumber our assets, and a covenant not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. We have agreements in place with banking institutions to provide for the issuance of commercial paper. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31, 68 2003. If we were to issue commercial paper, the borrowings would be supported by the $1.5 billion credit facility. We have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission to provide for the issuance of up to $1 billion in debt securities. If we were to issue debt under this shelf registration, we would expect to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. These purposes may include repayment of debt, working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and any other general corporate purpose. We actively seek to finance our business in a manner that preserves financial flexibility while minimizing borrowing costs to the extent practicable. Our management continually reviews changes in financial, market and economic conditions to manage the types, amounts and maturities of our indebtedness. We may at times refinance existing indebtedness, vary our mix of variable rate and fixed rate debt, or seek alternative financing sources for our cash and operational needs. At December 31, 2003, we had contractual commitments to repay debt (including capital lease obligations), make payments under operating leases, settle obligations related to agreements to purchase goods and services, and settle other long term liabilities. Payments due under these long term obligations and commitments are as follows: Payments Due by Period (In millions) Total Less than1 year 13 years 45 years After 5years Long term debt and capital lease obligations $ 6,208 $ 136 $ 253 $ 725 $ 5,094 Operating lease commitments 1,135 254 349 219 313 Purchase obligations 1,660 827 553 207 73 Other long term liabilities 1,051 120 202 145 584 Total contractual cash obligations $ 10,054 $ 1,337 $ 1,357 $ 1,296 $ 6,064 Generally, our long term debt obligations are subject to, along with other things, compliance with certain covenants, including covenants limiting our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to encumber our assets. Purchase obligations include agreements and requirements contracts that give the supplier recourse to us for cancellation or nonperformance under the contract or contain terms that would subject us to liquidated damages. Such agreements and contracts may, for example, be related to direct materials, obligations to sub contractors, outsourcing arrangements, and non cancelable commitments for property, plant and equipment. Generally, amounts for purchase obligations in the preceding table exclude contractual commitments entered into as a result of contracts we have with our U.S. Government customers. These commitments are excluded because the U.S. Government would be required to pay us for any costs we incur if they terminate our contracts with them for convenience pursuant to the FAR. For example, if we had commitments to purchase goods and services that were entered into as a result of a specific contract we received from a U.S. Government customer and the customer terminated 69 the contract for convenience, any amounts we would be required to pay to settle the related commitments, as well as amounts previously incurred, would generally be reimbursed by the customer. This would also be true in cases where we perform sub contract work for a prime contractor under a U.S. Government contract. The termination for convenience language may also be included in contracts with foreign, state and local governments. If so, amounts related to purchase obligations entered into in support of those contracts were excluded from the preceding table. To the extent contracts with customers do not include termination for convenience provisions, including contracts with commercial customers, related purchase obligation amounts are included in the table. Amounts related to Other long term liabilities in the preceding table represent the contractual obligations for certain long term liabilities recorded as of December 31, 2003. Such amounts mainly include expected payments under deferred compensation plans, non qualified pension plans and environmental liabilities. Obligations related to environmental liabilities represent our estimate of remediation payment obligations under government consent decrees and agreements, excluding amounts reimbursed by the U.S. Government in its capacity as a PRP under an agreement entered into in 2000. We have entered into standby letter of credit agreements and other arrangements with financial institutions and customers mainly relating to the guarantee of future performance on some of our contracts to provide products and services to customers. At December 31, 2003, we had contingent liabilities on outstanding letters of credit, guarantees and other arrangements, as follows: Commitment Expiration per Period (In millions) TotalCommit ment Less than1 year 13 years 45 years After 5years Surety bonds (a) $ 253 $ 61 $ 68 $ 124 $ Standby letters of credit (a) 261 180 57 13 11 Guarantees 4 3 1 Total commitments $ 518 $ 244 $ 126 $ 137 $ 11 (a) Approximately $43 million of surety bonds in the less than 1 year period, and approximately $117 million and $15 million of standby letters of credit in the less than 1 year and 13 year periods, respectively, are expected to automatically renew for additional 1 2 year periods until completion of the contractual obligation. We have issued standby letters of credit and surety bonds totaling $3.9 billion related to advances received from customers and or to secure our performance under long term contracts. Amounts included in the table above totaling $514 million are those amounts over and above advances received from customers which are recorded in the balance sheet as either offsets against inventories or in customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred. Of the $3.4 billion recorded in the balance sheet, approximately $2 billion relates to a standby letter of credit to secure advance payments received under an F 16 contract from an international customer. This letter of credit is available for draw down only in the event of our nonperformance. Similar to the letter of credit for the F 16 contract, letters of credit and surety bonds for other contracts are available for draw down only in the event of our nonperformance. 70 Cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, cash flow from operations and other available financing resources, are expected to be sufficient to meet anticipated operating, capital expenditure and debt service requirements, as well as acquisition and other discretionary investment needs, projected over the next 3 years. Consistent with our desire to generate cash to reduce debt and invest in our core businesses, we expect that, depending on prevailing financial, market and economic conditions, we will continue to explore the sale of non core businesses, passive equity investments and surplus real estate. Equity Investments In 2002, we recorded impairment charges, net of state income tax benefits, totaling $776 million related to our investments in Intelsat, Ltd. (Intelsat), Inmarsat and New Skies Satellites, N.V. (New Skies). The charges reduced net earnings by $504 million ($1.12 per diluted share). The charges were recorded primarily due to unfavorable trends in the satellite services and telecommunications industries that were not expected to be resolved in the near term. Intelsat, Inmarsat and New Skies are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). FCC decisions and policies have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on these companies. The Open Market Reorganization for the Betterment of International Telecommunications Act (the ORBIT Act), passed by Congress in 2000, established deadlines for Intelsat and Inmarsat to complete initial public offerings. Based on congressional and regulatory extensions received to date, and unless otherwise extended by Congress, each is required to complete their initial public offerings by June 30, 2004. Their ability to do so may be impacted by changes in trends and market conditions in the telecommunications industry, as well as in the capital markets. If those deadlines are not met or extended by further amendments to the legislation, the FCC may limit access by U.S. users to the satellite capacity of the privatized entities for some services. If this were to occur, the value of our investments could be adversely affected. In December 2003, Inmarsat was acquired in a leveraged buyout transaction and, in doing so, believes it has complied with the ORBIT Act requirements. There is no assurance that the FCC will accept Inmarsats position that it has satisfied the ORBIT Act requirement by completing a leveraged buyout transaction. In January 2004, Intelsat announced its intention to conduct an initial public offering of its shares in an amount up to $500 million, and expects the offering to occur on or before June 30, 2004. In December 2002, we recorded a charge, net of state income tax benefits, of $163 million related to our investment in Space Imaging, LLC and our guarantee of up to $150 million of Space Imagings borrowings under a credit facility that matured on March 30, 2003. At December 31, 2002, we increased current maturities of long term debt by $150 million representing our estimated obligation under the guarantee. On March 31, 2003, we paid $130 million to acquire Space Imagings outstanding borrowings under Space Imagings credit facility, and the guarantee was eliminated. We therefore reversed, net of state income taxes, approximately $19 million of the charge recorded in December 2002, representing the unutilized portion of the credit facility covered by our guarantee. This gain increased 2003 net earnings by $13 million ($0.03 per diluted share). In 2001, we recorded a charge, net of state income tax benefits, of $361 million related to the impairment of our investment in Loral Space & Communications Ltd. (see Note 8 to the financial statements). The charge reduced net earnings by $235 million ($0.54 per diluted 71 share). In July 2003, Loral Space and certain of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In the third quarter of 2003, we sold our ownership interest in Loral Space. The sale did not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We are an unsecured creditor of Loral Space in the bankruptcy proceeding. Loral Space has made a claim that they are entitled to a refund of payments made to us under various terminated launch service contracts. We believe that the claim is without merit and that we are entitled to retain the amounts under the terms of the contracts. We do not expect these events to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flow. In 2001, we recorded a charge, net of state income tax benefits, of $367 million related to impairment in the value of our investment in Astrolink International LLC. We also recorded charges of approximately $20 million, net of state income tax benefits, in cost of sales for certain other costs related to Astrolink. On a combined basis, these charges reduced net earnings for 2001 by approximately $267 million ($0.62 per diluted share). In January 2003, we entered into an agreement with Astrolinks other members to restructure Astrolink. As part of the transaction, Liberty Satellite & Technology, a subsidiary of Liberty Media Corporation, had an option to acquire Astrolinks assets and pursue a business plan to build a one or two satellite system. On October 24, 2003, Liberty Satellite & Technology notified us that they would not exercise the option to acquire Astrolinks assets and build the satellite system. As a result, as part of the restructuring agreement, Astrolinks procurement contracts were terminated, and we acquired the remaining ownership interests in Astrolink. The restructuring also entailed the settlement of existing claims related to termination of Astrolinks procurement contracts with its members, certain of their affiliates and other vendors. Under these settlements, we retained our work in process. Completion of the restructuring did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In 2001 we recorded charges, net of state income tax benefits, of approximately $232 million related to commitments to and impairment in the values of investments in satellite joint ventures, primarily Asia Cellular Satellite System and Americom Asia Pacific, LLC. The charges reduced net earnings for 2001 by $153 million ($0.35 per diluted share). Realization and valuation of our investments in equity securities may be affected by an investees ability to obtain adequate funding, including through public and private sales of its debt and equity securities, and execute its business plans, as well as by general market conditions, industry considerations specific to the investees business, and or other factors. The inability of an investee to obtain future funding or successfully execute its business plan could adversely affect our earnings in the periods affected by those events. 72 Discontinued Operations In the fourth quarter of 2001, we announced that we would exit our global telecommunications services business and recorded related charges, net of state income tax benefits, of approximately $1.4 billion. The charges reduced net earnings by about $1.3 billion ($3.09 per diluted share). The charges related to global telecommunications services businesses held for sale and exit costs for the elimination of the administrative function supporting the global telecommunications businesses and investments. Amounts recorded included about $1.2 billion related to impairment of goodwill, with the remainder related to impairment of some of the long lived assets employed by foreign businesses held for sale and costs associated with elimination of administrative functions. We completed sales of all of the businesses classified as held for sale in 2002 with the exception of Lockheed Martin Intersputnik (LMI). Those transactions did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. We reached an agreement to sell LMI in the third quarter of 2002; however, in April 2003, the agreement was terminated. We are continuing to treat LMI as a discontinued operation, as we are still holding and actively marketing the business for sale, and there are interested potential buyers. The operating results of LMI had no impact on the statement of earnings in 2003, and its assets and liabilities, which represented less than 1% of our consolidated assets and liabilities at the end of 2003, were included in our balance sheet in other current assets and other current liabilities. We do not expect that the operating results of LMI (until such time as we sell the business), or its ultimate sale, will have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We completed the sale of IMS, a wholly owned subsidiary, for $825 million in cash in August 2001. This transaction resulted in a gain, net of state income taxes, of $476 million and increased net earnings by $309 million ($0.71 per diluted share). The results of IMS operations, as well as the gain on the sale, were classified as discontinued operations. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure of Market Risk Our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates and, to a lesser extent, foreign currency exchange rates. Our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include short term investments and long term debt. Our long term debt obligations, other than the $1.0 billion in convertible debentures issued in 2003, are generally not callable until maturity. We sometimes use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates. At year end 2003, we had agreements in place to swap fixed interest rates on approximately $70 million of our long term debt for variable interest rates based on LIBOR. The interest rate swap agreements are designated as effective hedges of the fair value of the underlying fixed rate debt instruments. At December 31, 2003, the fair values of interest rate swap agreements outstanding were not material. The amounts of gains and losses from changes in the fair values of the swap agreements were entirely offset by those from changes in the fair value of the associated debt obligations. Changes in swap rates would affect the market value of the agreements, but those changes in value would be offset by changes in the value of the underlying debt obligations. 73 We use forward foreign exchange contracts to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. These contracts are designated as qualifying hedges of the cash flows associated with firm commitments or specific anticipated transactions, and related gains and losses on the contracts, to the extent they are effective hedges, are recognized in income when the hedged transaction occurs. To the extent the hedges are ineffective, gains and losses on the contracts are recognized currently. At December 31, 2003, the fair value of forward exchange contracts outstanding, as well as the amounts of gains and losses recorded during the year then ended, were not material. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Controls and Procedures We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our periodic filings with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily is required to use its judgment in evaluating the cost benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated entities. As we do not control or manage those entities, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to those entities are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. At December 31, 2003, we performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. The evaluation was performed with the participation of senior management of each business segment and key Corporate functions, and under the supervision of the CEO and CFO. Based on the evaluation, our management, including the CEO and CFO, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. There have been no significant changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during the most recently completed fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure of Market Risk on page 73 and 74, and under the caption Derivative financial instruments in Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies on page 86 of this Form 10 K. 74 
 
