FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20040720105504.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 20, 2004 Allegheny Technologies Incorporated ------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-12001 25-1792394 - ----------------------------- ---------------- ------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 1000 Six PPG Place, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-5479 -------------------------------------------------------- -------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (412) 394-2800
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS Attached as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.4 are the Company's 2004 Annual Incentive Plan, Administrative Rules for the Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Program (as amended effective as of January 1, 2004) and Form of Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Plan Agreement for 2004, Form of Restricted Stock Agreement dated March 11, 2004, and Key Employee Performance Plan, respectively. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits Exhibit 10.1 2004 Annual Incentive Plan Exhibit 10.2 Administrative Rules for the Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Program (as amended effective as of January 1, 2004) and Form of Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Plan Agreement for 2004 Exhibit 10.3 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement dated March 11, 2004 Exhibit 10.4 Key Employee Performance Plan Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated July 20, 2004 ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. (a) On July 20, 2004, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated issued a press release with respect to its second quarter 2004 financial results. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 12 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED By: /s/ Jon D. Walton -------------------------------- Jon D. Walton Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Chief Legal and Compliance Officer Dated: July 20, 2004
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit 10.1 2004 Annual Incentive Plan Exhibit 10.2 Administrative Rules for the Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Program (as amended effective as of January 1, 2004), and Form of Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Plan Agreement for 2004 Exhibit 10.3 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement dated March 11, 2004 Exhibit 10.4 Key Employee Performance Plan Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated July 20, 2004

EXHIBIT 10.1 [ATI logo] THE ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN FOR YEAR 2004 May 2004
AT A GLANCE WHAT IS THE ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN? The Annual Incentive Plan (the "AIP" or the "Plan") provides key managers of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated ("Allegheny Technologies" or the "Company") and its operating companies with the opportunity to earn an incentive award when certain pre-established goals are met at the corporate and operating company levels. WHO IS ELIGIBLE FOR THIS PLAN? Generally, key managers who have a significant impact on the company's operations will be eligible to participate in the Plan. Individuals eligible for participation are determined annually, based on recommendations of the operating company presidents, if applicable, and the Company's chief executive officer, with the approval of the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee"). HOW DOES THE ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN WORK? Under the Plan, key managers may earn an incentive award based on a percentage of their base salary, depending on the extent to which pre-established operating company and/or corporate performance goals have been achieved. - - For purposes of the Plan, base salary is generally the manager's annual base salary rate as of the end of the year, excluding any commission or other incentive pay. For some special circumstances affecting the amount of base salary used in the Plan, see page 6. - - A target bonus percentage is used in calculating the incentive award. It is explained on the next page. Each participating manager will have a target bonus percentage. - - The target bonus percentage will be adjusted (upward or downward) based on the extent to which various performance goals are achieved. Under the plan for 2004, all of the adjustment will be based on company performance. Incentive award payments will generally be distributed in cash after the year-end audit is complete. Page 1
CALCULATION OF THE ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN AWARD TARGET BONUS PERCENTAGE The Plan establishes an incentive opportunity for each Plan participant, calculated as a percentage of the manager's base salary. Each participant will be provided with an initial percentage, referred to as a "target bonus percentage." Generally, the target bonus percentage is the percentage of base salary that can be earned as an award under the Plan if 100% of the various performance goals are achieved. For 2004, if 100% of the performance goals are achieved, 100% of the target bonus percentage can be earned. If there is a change in the key manager's job position during the year that changes the manager's target bonus percentage, the target bonus percentage used in the award calculation will be determined as follows: - - If the individual has at least six months of service in the new position, the newly adjusted target bonus percentage will be used in calculating the individual's award for the full year. - - If the individual has less than six months of service in the new position, the individual's award for the year will be calculated on a pro-rata basis using the two different target bonus percentages weighted by length of service in each position during the year. Target bonus percentages, performance goals and performance achievements will be communicated to each eligible participant. The Committee may change the goals and objectives for the Plan at any time. PERFORMANCE GOALS AND THE TARGET BONUS PERCENTAGE An AIP award is based on the extent to which specified, preestablished performance objectives are achieved. For 2004, AIP awards will be based on the extent to which the participant's company achieves specified levels of achievement as to: - - Operating Earnings - - Operating Cash Flow - - Manufacturing Improvements - - Safety and Environmental Improvements - - Customer Responsiveness Improvements For operating company presidents, 80% of the goals' overall weight will be based on the performance of the president's operating company, and 20% of the goals' overall weight will be based on corporate level performance. For corporate staff employees, performance will be measured completely at the corporate level. Page 2
At the end of the year, the Company will measure actual performance against each of the preestablished objectives. The achievements attributable to each performance goal as noted above, then will be added together, and that sum will be multiplied by: (1) the individual's target bonus percentage, times (2) the individual's annual base salary, to produce the amount, if any, of the incentive award for 2004. Note that potential adjustments are described on page 6. 2004 PERFORMANCE GOALS The performance goals for 2004 consist of: - - Operating Earnings 40% - - Operating Cash Flow 30% - - Manufacturing Improvements 10% (Inventory Turns 5%) (Yield Improvement 5%) - - Safety and Environmental Improvements 10% (Lost Time Incidents 5%) (Recordable Incidents 5%) - - Customer Responsiveness Improvements 10% (Delivery Performance 5%) (Quality/Complaints 5%) Targeted achievements as to each performance goal above have been set for each operating company and for corporate staff. Together the above goals comprise 100% of the target bonus percentage. No annual incentive will be paid if the achievement of Operating Earnings is less than the established applicable minimum of Operating Earnings or if the achievement of Operating Cash Flow is less than the established applicable minimum of Operating Cash Flow, notwithstanding the achievements as to the other applicable performance goals for 2004. Page 3
HOW THE AIP INCENTIVE AWARD IS CALCULATED WHEN ALL GOALS ARE 100% ACHIEVED For the Year 2004, if 100% of the performance goals are achieved, then 100% of the target bonus percentage will be credited to the participant: *Earned % of Target = Goal % of Target X Goal Achieved % In this example, assume that the operating company manager's target bonus percentage is 20%. The target bonus percentage of 20% is then multiplied by 100% to produce a bonus award equal to 20% of base salary:
Earned Percentage of Target 100% X Target Bonus Percent 20% --- Equals Percentage of Salary for 20% Incentive Award
The sections below discuss the impact of achieving more or less than 100% of various goals, and they also discuss the impact of other potential adjustments. Page 4
HOW THE AIP INCENTIVE AWARD IS CALCULATED FOR OTHER ACHIEVEMENT LEVELS The percentage of a goal achieved will determine the earned percentage of target for that particular goal. The earned percentage of target will be interpolated for achievement between the established minimum level and the established target level for a particular goal. Similarly, the earned percentage of target will be interpolated for achievement between the established target level and the established maximum level for a particular goal. Maximums and Minimums - - Generally, the maximum percentage calculated as an earned percentage of target for any goal is 150%, and the overall maximum incentive award that an individual can earn under the weighting formula is 150% of his or her target bonus percentage. - - Where the established minimum of a performance goal is achieved, only 50% of that goal's share will be allocated to his or her target bonus percentage. - - Where less than the established minimum of a performance goal is achieved, no amount of that goal will be allocated to his or her target bonus percentage. No annual incentive will be paid if the achievement of Operating Earnings is less than the established applicable minimum of Operating Earnings or if the achievement of Operating Cash Flow is less than the established applicable minimum of Operating Cash Flow, notwithstanding the achievements as to the other applicable performance goals for 2004. Page 5
ADDITIONAL GUIDELINES FOR THE ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN DISCRETIONARY ADJUSTMENTS In some cases, the Plan allows for discretionary adjustments of up to +20% or - 20% of an individual's calculated award. However, the sum of discretionary adjustments for all eligible managers of the affected company cannot exceed +5% of the aggregate calculated awards for that company. SOME SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES The above formulas generally determine the amount of the incentive award for the year. Other factors that may affect the actual award follow: - - If a manager leaves the company due to retirement, death, or disability, an award will be calculated based on the actual base salary earned during the year in which the manager left -- so long as the manager worked at least six months of that year. - - If a manager leaves the company before the end of the plan year for any other reason, the manager will not receive a bonus award for that year. - - If a manager voluntarily leaves the company after the end of the year but before the award is paid, the manager would receive any bonus due unless the employment is terminated for cause. If employment is terminated for cause, the manager would not be entitled to receive an award under the Plan. - - Managers who are hired mid-year may earn a pro-rated award for that year, based on the salary earned during that year. However, managers with less than two months service in a plan year (i.e. hired after October 31) would not be eligible for an award for that year. - - If the manager received an adjustment in base salary due to a change in job position (i.e. other than a merit increase), the manager's base salary for plan purposes will be the sum of (1) the product of the number of months prior to the adjustment times the rate of monthly base salary immediately prior to the adjustment, and (2) the product of the number of months after the adjustment times the rate of monthly base salary as of the end of the Plan Year. MAKING PAYMENTS All incentive award payments will generally be paid in cash, less applicable withholding taxes, after the year-end audit is complete. This is expected to occur by no later than March 15. Page 6
ADMINISTRATION DETAILS This summary relates to the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and its subsidiaries. The Plan is administered by the Committee, which has full authority to: - - Interpret the Plan; - - Designate eligible participants and categories of eligible participants; - - Set the terms and conditions of incentive awards; and - - Establish and modify administrative rules for the Plan. Plan participants may obtain additional information about the plan and the Committee from: Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Chief Legal and Compliance Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Allegheny Technologies Incorporated 1000 Six PPG Place Pittsburgh PA 15222 5479 Phone: 412-394-2836 Fax: 412-394-2837 The Plan will remain in effect until terminated by the Committee. The Committee may also amend the plan at its discretion. The Plan is not subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and is not "qualified" under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Page 7

EXHIBIT 10.2 ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 2000 INCENTIVE PLAN ADMINISTRATIVE RULES FOR THE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PROGRAM EFFECTIVE AS OF JANUARY 1, 2001 (AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE AS OF JANUARY 1, 2004) ARTICLE I. ADOPTION AND PURPOSE OF THE PROGRAM 1.01 ADOPTION. These rules are adopted by the Personnel and Compensation Committee and the Stock Incentive Award Subcommittee of the Board of Directors as a part of the Allegheny Technologies Incorporated 2000 Incentive Plan (the "Plan") pursuant to the authority reserved in Section 3.01 of the Plan. The Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Program (the "TSRP") shall be the guidelines for making certain Performance Awards or Other Stock-Based Awards under Article VIII of the Plan. Capitalized terms used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meanings as in the Plan. 1.02 PURPOSE. The purposes of the TSRP are (i) to assist the Corporation in retaining and motivating selected key management employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries who will contribute to the success of the Corporation, (ii) to reward key management employees for the overall success of the Corporation as determined by the value created for shareholders as measured by the percentile performance of Corporation Common Stock relative to a peer group and (iii) to provide a means of encouraging key management employees to acquire and hold shares of Corporation Common Stock. The TSRP encourages key management employees to acquire and hold shares of Corporation Common Stock by offering them an opportunity to receive shares of Common Stock which, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth below, will be earned only if the sum of the price and yield of the Common Stock measured against the sums of prices and yields of shares of common stock of a peer group of corporations meets or exceeds the performance reward relationships set at the beginning of an Award Period. Awards under the TSRP are intended to act as an incentive to participating key management employees to achieve long-term objectives that will inure to the benefit of all stockholders of the Corporation measured in terms of relative stock prices.
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS For purposes of these rules, the capitalized terms set forth below shall have the following meanings: 2.01 AWARD AGREEMENT means a written agreement between the Corporation and a Participant or a written acknowledgment from the Corporation specifically setting forth the terms and conditions of a TSR Target Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Article VI of these rules. 2.02 AWARD TARGETS means the percentage of a TSR Target Award which shall be earned for a particular TSR Performance Period at Threshold, Target, Excellent and Outstanding, respectively. 2.03 BOARD means the Board of Directors of the Corporation. 2.04 BUSINESS DAY means any day on which the New York Stock Exchange shall be open for trading. 2.05 CAUSE means a determination by the Committee that a Participant has engaged in conduct that is dishonest or illegal, involves moral turpitude or jeopardizes the Corporation's right to operate its business in the manner in which it is now operated. 2.06 CHANGE IN CONTROL means any of the events set forth below: (a) The acquisition in one or more transactions, other than from the Corporation, by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of a number of Corporation Voting Securities in excess of 25% of the Corporation Voting Securities unless such acquisition has been approved by the Board; or (b) Any election has occurred of persons to the Board that causes two-thirds of the Board to consist of persons other than (i) persons who were members of the Board on January 1, 2001 and (ii) persons who were nominated for election as members of the Board at a time when two-thirds of the Board consisted of persons who were members of the Board on January 1, 2001; provided, however, that any person nominated for election by the Board at a time when at least two-thirds of the members of the Board were persons described in clauses (i) and/or (ii) or by persons who were themselves nominated by such Board shall, for this purpose, be deemed to have been nominated by a Board composed of persons described in clause (i); or (c) Approval by the stockholders of the Corporation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, unless, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation, all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the respective beneficial owners of the Outstanding Stock and Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors or trustees, as the case may be, of the entity resulting
from such reorganization, merger or consolidation in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Outstanding Stock and Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation, as the case may be; or (d) Approval by the stockholders of the Corporation of (i) a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or (ii) a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Corporation. 2.07 COMMITTEE means the Stock Incentive Award Committee of the Board, in the case of individuals who are executive officers of the Corporation, and the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board, in the case of individuals who are not executive officers of the Corporation. 2.08 CORPORATION means Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, and its successors. 2.09 CORPORATION VOTING SECURITIES means the combined voting power of all outstanding voting securities of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board. 2.10 DATE OF GRANT means the date as of which a TSR Target Award is granted in accordance with Article VI of these rules. 2.11 DISABILITY means any physical or mental injury or disease of a permanent nature which renders a Participant incapable of meeting the requirements of the employment performed by such Participant immediately prior to the commencement of such disability. The determination of whether a Participant is disabled shall be made by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant's employment by the Corporation or an applicable subsidiary terminates by reason of a disability, as defined in an Employment Agreement between such Participant and the Corporation or an applicable subsidiary, such Participant shall be deemed to be disabled for purposes of the TSRP. 2.12 EFFECTIVE DATE means January 1, 2001. 2.13 EXCHANGE ACT means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 2.14 EXCELLENT means a relative level of achievement of Performance Reward Criteria at which the TSR for the Corporation for a TSR Performance Period is at a percentile of the TSR for the Peer Group for that Performance Period as determined by the Committee under Section 6.02. Excellent shall be the next to the highest level of performance for which a TSRP Reward will be paid. 2.15 FAIR MARKET VALUE means, as of any given date, the average of the high and low trading prices of the Common Stock on such date as reported on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then traded on the New York Stock Exchange, on such other national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is admitted to trade, or, if none, on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System if the Common Stock is admitted for quotation thereon; provided, however, if there were no sales reported as of such date,
Fair Market Value shall be computed as of the last date preceding such date on which a sale was reported; provided, further, that if any such exchange or quotation system is closed on any day on which Fair Market Value is to be determined, Fair Market Value shall be determined as of the first date immediately preceding such date on which such exchange or quotation system was open for trading. 2.16 OUTSTANDING means a relative level of Performance Reward Criteria at which the Corporation TSR for a particular TSR Performance Period is at a percentile of TSR for the Peer Group for that TSR Performance Period as determined by the Committee under Section 6.02. Outstanding shall be the highest level of performance for which a TSRP Reward will be paid. 2.17 OUTSTANDING STOCK means, at any time, the issued and outstanding Common Stock. 2.18 PARTICIPANT means any key management employee selected by the Committee, pursuant to Section 5.01 of these rules, as eligible to participate under the TSRP for any one or more TSR Performance Period. 2.19 PEER GROUP means a group of corporations with publicly traded common stock listed on a national securities exchange(s) deemed comparable to the Corporation as the number and identity of such group is determined by the Committee, in its discretion, for a particular TSR Performance Period. In the event of bankruptcy, delisting, merger, spin-off or other special circumstances affecting members of the Peer Group during a Performance Period, the Committee shall make such adjustments in the Peer Group as the Committee determines appropriate in its discretion. The Committee may select the number and identity of members of the Peer Group separately for each TSR Performance Period. 2.20 PERFORMANCE REWARD CRITERIA means the relative standing of the Corporation TSR, expressed in percentiles and ranked at Threshold, Target, Excellent and Outstanding, as compared to the TSR for the Peer Group, in each case for a particular TSR Performance Period. 2.21 PERFORMANCE LEVEL means the level of actual achievement of Performance Reward Criteria for a particular TSR Performance Period. In determining final Performance Levels, the Committee shall use straight-line interpolation between Threshold and Target, Target and Excellent and Excellent and Outstanding but there shall be no interpolation above Outstanding or below Threshold. 2.22 PLAN means the Allegheny Technologies Incorporated 2000 Incentive Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time. 2.23 RETIREMENT means a termination of employment with the Corporation and each subsidiary of the Corporation, with the consent of the Corporation, at or after (i) attaining age 55 and (ii) completing five years of employment with the Corporation and/or any subsidiary of the Corporation. 2.24 TARGET means a relative level of Performance Reward Criteria at which the Corporation TSR for a particular TSR Performance Period is at a percentile of TSR for the Peer Group for that TSR Performance Period as determined by the Committee under Section 6.02.
2.25 THRESHOLD means a relative level of Performance Reward Criteria at which the Corporation TSR for a particular TSR Performance Period is at a percentile of TSR for the Peer Group for that TSR Performance Period as determined by the Committee under Section 6.02. Threshold shall be the lowest level of Performance Reward Criteria for which a Plan Reward will be earned. 2.26 TSR is the percentile ranking of the sum of stock price appreciation of and dividend reinvestment with respect to a share of Corporation Stock as compared to the comparable amount among the Peer Group for a particular TSR Performance Period as calculated on the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock as of the end of the TSR Performance Period plus dividends paid on a share of stock during the TSR Performance Period divided by the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock at the beginning of the TSR Performance Period using the methodology described in item 402(l) of Regulation S-K as promulgated under the Securities Act, as such act or regulation may be amended from time to time, or any successor to either. 2.27 TSRP means the Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Program as set forth in these rules as the same may be amended from time to time. 2.28 TSR PERFORMANCE PERIOD means a three calendar year period beginning on the January 1st designated by the Committee and continuing until the third December 31st thereafter. 2.29 TSR REWARDS means the number of shares of Stock earned for a particular TSR Performance period after application of the Performance Level. 2.30 TSR TARGET AWARD means an award of an opportunity to earn a number of shares of Stock in a TSR Performance Period. The number of shares for a particular Participant shall be determined by the Committee for each TSR Performance Period by dividing the Participant's base salary at the commencement of the TSR Performance Period or, for the 2004-2006 performance period, at the base salary set on or before the date the Target Award is made, by the average Fair Market Value for the 30 Business Days preceding the first Business Day of that TSR Performance Period and multiplying the result by a decimal determined appropriate by the Committee based on the Participant's responsibilities and opportunity to contribute to the success of the Corporation. 2.31 STOCK means Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Corporation. 2.32 WITHHOLDING OBLIGATIONS means the amount of federal, state and local income and payroll taxes the Corporation determines in good faith must be withheld with respect to a TSR Rewards. Withholding Obligations may be settled by the Participant, as permitted by the Committee in its discretion, in shares of Stock otherwise deliverable under the TRSP, cash, previously owned shares of Stock or any combination of the foregoing. ARTICLE III. ADMINISTRATION In addition to any power reserved to the Committee under Article III of the Plan, the TSRP shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have exclusive and final authority and discretion in each determination, interpretation or other action affecting the TSRP and its Participants, and the Committee shall have the sole and absolute authority and discretion to
interpret the TSRP, to modify these administrative rules for the TSRP, to select, in accordance with Section 5.01 of these rules, the persons who will be Participants hereunder, to determine all performance criteria, levels of awards and rewards payable, to impose such conditions and restrictions as it determines appropriate and to take such other actions and make such other determinations in connection with the TSRP as it may deem necessary or advisable, in all cases in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the charter of the Committee. ARTICLE IV. STOCK ISSUABLE UNDER THE TSRP 4.01 NUMBER OF SHARES OF STOCK ISSUABLE. Subject to adjustments as provided in Section 11.07 of the Plan, the maximum number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the TSRP shall be 3,000,000. The Stock to be offered under the TSRP shall be authorized and unissued Stock, or Stock which shall have been reacquired by the Corporation and held in its treasury. 4.02 SHARES SUBJECT TO TERMINATED AWARDS. Shares of Stock forfeited as provided in Section 6.03 of these rules may again be issued under the TSRP. ARTICLE V. PARTICIPATION 5.01 DESIGNATION OF PARTICIPANTS. Participants in the TSRP shall be such key management employees of the Corporation or of its subsidiaries as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may designate as eligible to participate in the TSRP for any one or more TSR Performance Periods. No later than 90 days after the commencement of each TSR Performance Period during the term of the TSRP, the Committee shall designate the Participants who are eligible to participate in the TSRP during such TSR Performance Period. The Committee's designation of a Participant with respect to any TSR Performance Period shall not require the Committee to designate such person as a Participant with respect to any other TSR Performance Period. The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems pertinent in selecting Participants. The Committee shall promptly provide to each person selected as a Participant written notice of such selection. ARTICLE VI. GRANTS UNDER THE TSRP 6.01 ANNUAL DETERMINATION REGARDING TSR PERFORMANCE PERIOD. No later than the 60th day of each calendar year, the Committee shall determine whether to establish a TSR Performance Period, provided, however, for a TSR Performance Period established in calendar year 2001, the Committee may make a determination under this Section 6.01 at any time prior to the 90th day of calendar year 2001. 6.02 DETERMINATION OF GRANTS, AWARDS AND PERFORMANCE CRITERIA. For each TSR Performance Period, the Committee shall take the following actions no later than the 90th day of the first calendar year of that TSR Performance Period: (a) Identify Participants for that TSR Performance Period; (b) Establish the level of the TSR Target Awards for each Participant;
(c) Set the Performance Reward Criteria in terms of percentile ranking among the Peer Group for such period at Threshold, Target, Excellent and Outstanding, respectively; (d) Set the Award Targets for Threshold, Target, Excellent and Outstanding; and (e) Determine the Peer Group for that TSR Performance Period. 6.03 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If a Participant terminates employment with the Corporation and each subsidiary of the Corporation during a then uncompleted TSR Performance Period for reasons other than death, Disability or Retirement, any TSR Target Award for any then uncompleted TSR Performance Period shall be forfeited automatically and the shares represented by such TSR Target Awards shall again be eligible for awards under these Rules. If a Participant terminates employment with the Corporation and each subsidiary of the Corporation for reasons of death, Disability or Retirement during a then uncompleted TSR Performance Period, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a pro rata Plan Reward for each then uncompleted TSR Performance Period determined: (a) when the TSR Rewards for all other Participants in such TSR Performance Period(s) are determined; (b) based on the actual level of achievement of Performance Reward Criteria for that TSR Performance Period and the Participant's TSR Target Award; (c) pro rated by multiplying the number of shares of Stock the Participant would have received if the Participant completed the TSR Performance Period multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of months of such TSR Performance Period completed before the Participant's termination of employment and the denominator is 36; and (d) certificates representing the number determined above shall be delivered at the same time as all other certificates for such TSR Performance Period are delivered to Participants who completed the TSR Performance Period. ARTICLE VII. DETERMINATION OF PERFORMANCE REWARD CRITERIA AND DELIVERY OF STOCK 7.01 DETERMINATION OF ACTUAL ACHIEVEMENT OF PERFORMANCE REWARD CRITERIA. As promptly as administratively feasible but in no event later than the March 1st of the calendar year following last calendar year of each TSR Performance Period, the Committee shall determine the TSR of the Corporation and the average TSR of each member of the Peer Group and determine the Performance Level, if any, at which the Performance Reward Criteria have been achieved. 7.02 DETERMINATION OF PLAN REWARDS. Plan Rewards for a particular TSR Performance Period for a particular participant shall be the result of multiplying that Participant's TSR Target Award by the Performance Level for that TSR Performance Period determined under Section 7.01.
7.03 DELIVERY OF STOCK CERTIFICATES. As promptly as administratively feasible after the but in no event later than the March 15th of the calendar year following the last calendar year of a TSR Performance Period, the Corporation shall prepare for each Participant due a Plan Reward under Section 7.02 one or more stock certificates registered in the name(s) indicated by such Participant and shall deliver such certificates to the Participant promptly following the Participant's settlement of the Withholding Obligations by placing such certificates or causing such certificates to be placed in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, to the address indicated by the Participant. ARTICLE VIII. MISCELLANEOUS 8.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS OF PLAN. Except as set forth in these Rules, the provisions of the Plan, including, but not limited to, Article X, the Terms Applicable Generally to Awards Granted under the Plan, shall apply to these Rules and are incorporated herein as if set forth at length. 8.02 CHANGE IN CONTROL. In the event of a Change in Control, Plan Rewards shall be determined for all then uncompleted TSR Performance Periods as of the date of the Change in Control at the greater of (i) the Performance Level actually attained prior to the Change in Control and projected for the remainder of such uncompleted TSR Performance Periods or (ii) Target for each such uncompleted TSR Performance Period and certificates (or, with the consent of the Committee an amount in cash representing the Fair Market Value of such certificates) representing the Plan Rewards shall be delivered to the Participant as soon after the Change in Control as is administratively feasible. 8.03 SECURITIES LAWS AND SECTION 162(M) RESTRICTIONS. Any TSR Award denominated in Common Stock shall be subject to the requirement that if at any time the Committee shall determine that any listing or registration of the shares of Common Stock or any consent or approval of any governmental body or any other agreement or consent is necessary or desirable as a condition to the granting of a TSR Award or issuance of shares of Common Stock or cash in satisfaction thereof, such grant of an award or issuance of shares of Common Stock may not be consummated unless such requirement is satisfied in a manner acceptable to the Committee. It is intended, unless the Committee determine otherwise, that the TSRP comply with Rule 16b-3 as issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Section 162(m) of the Code. All interpretations of the TSRP relating to Statutory Insiders shall be consistent with that Rule 16b-3, the Exchange Act and Section 162(m) of the Code. In order to maintain compliance with any of Rule 16b-3, the Exchange Act or the Code, the Committee may adopt such other rules or provide restrictions on outstanding TSR Awards as it in its discretion shall deem necessary and such rules or restrictions shall apply to outstanding TSR Awards as if set forth in the respective TSR Award Agreements.
8.04 INVESTMENT REPRESENTATION. Each TSR Award Agreement may provide that the Participant shall deliver to the Committee upon demand by the Committee a written representation that the shares of Common Stock to be delivered are acquired by the Participant for investment and not for resale or with a view to the distribution thereof. Upon demand, delivery of such representation prior to the delivery of shares of Common Stock shall be a condition precedent to the Participant's right to receive such shares of Common Stock. 8.05 NO RIGHTS AS STOCKHOLDERS. Participants shall have no rights as shareholders of the Corporation prior to the actual delivery of shares of Common Stock. The existence of these Rules and/or any TSR Awards then outstanding shall not be a bar or affect in any way the power or authority of the Corporation or any of its then stockholders to take any action regarding the Corporation, its assets or its capital structure. 8.06 NON-UNIFORM DETERMINATIONS. The actions and determinations of the Committee need not be uniform and may be taken or made by the Committee selectively among employees or Participants, whether or not similarly situated. 8.07 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF RULES. The Committee shall have complete power and authority to amend or terminate these Rules at any time it is deemed necessary or appropriate. No termination or amendment of the Rules may, without the consent of the Participant to whom any award shall theretofore have been granted under the TSRP, adversely affect the right of such individual under such award; provided, however, that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, make such provision in the Award Agreement for amendments which, in its sole discretion, it deems appropriate.
FORM OF TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PROGRAM AWARD AGREEMENT Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the "COMPANY") and the award recipient named below ("PARTICIPANT") enter into this Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Program Agreement effective as of January 1, 2004.
Participant: [Name] PARTICIPANT TO COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING CHART (Please print) Street Address City/State/Zip Code Social Security Number
WHEREAS, the Company has adopted the Allegheny Technologies Incorporated 2000 Incentive Plan (the "PLAN") and, in accordance with the Plan, has adopted Administrative Rules for the Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Program, as amended (the "TSRP") as a portion of the Plan to (i) assist the Company retain and motivate key management employees; (ii) reward key management employees for the overall success of the Company; and (iii) provide a means of encouraging key management employees to acquire and hold shares of Company Common Stock. WHEREAS, the TSRP provides that each TSR Target Award made under the TSRP shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement between the Company and the key management employee who receives a TRS Target Award under the TSRP setting forth the terms and conditions of such TSR Target Award; WHEREAS, the Company desires to make a TSR Target Award to the Participant and evidence such TSR Target Award by this Award Agreement and the Participant, having read and understood the Plan and the TSRP, is willing to enter into this Award Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth herein. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto agree with each other as follows: Subject to the attainment of the Performance Levels described below and to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the TSRP and the Terms and Conditions of Award attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, by which Participant agrees to be bound, the Company awards to Participant the Award described below, with respect to the Performance Period described below:
PERFORMANCE PERIOD: January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2006 TSR TARGET AWARD: [number of shares at target] Shares of Company Common Stock [equals applicable base salary times [applicable TSR award level percentage] (which is the Participant's target award opportunity as a percent of salary) divided by $10.20 (which is the average Closing Price for the 30 trading days prior to January 1, 2004)] PERFORMANCE LEVELS: The following table shows the performance award relationship under the TSRP for the 2004 - 2006 performance period: NOTE: Interpolation between points will be made on a straight line basis on each scale. Below the 25th percentile and above the 90th percentile, there will be no interpolation. THE ACTUAL AWARD UNDER THE TSRP WILL EQUAL THE TSR TARGET AWARD TIMES THE APPLICABLE PERCENT OF TARGET AWARD EARNED. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Total Shareholder Return Incentive Compensation Program Award Agreement effective the day and year first above written. ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED By:_____________________________________________________________ Title: Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Chief Legal & Compliance Officer PARTICIPANT: WITNESS: - ------------------------------ ------------------------------
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF TSRP AWARD Section 1: Definitions Capitalized words used but not defined below or elsewhere in these Terms and Conditions shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. "ADMINISTRATIVE RULES" or "TSRP" shall mean the Administrative Rules for the TSRP adopted by the Committee effective January 1, 2001, as amended effective January 1, 2004, as the same may be amended from time to time. "AWARD" shall mean the grant of a TSR Target Award evidenced by this Award Agreement. "COMMITTEE" means the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors for a Participant who is not a statutory insider of the Company for the purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Stock Incentive Award Subcommittee of the Board of Directors for a Participant who is a statutory insider. "COMMON STOCK" shall mean the common stock, $0.10 par value per share, of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated. "COMPANY" shall mean Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. "DISABILITY" shall mean the total and permanent disability of Participant as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. "EXCELLENT" shall mean a relative standing of the Company's TSR as against the TSR for the Peer Group, in each case for the TSR Performance Period, equal to or greater than 75% but less than 90%. "OUTSTANDING" shall mean a relative standing of the Company's TSR as against the TSR for the Peer Group, in each case for the TSR Performance Period, equal to or greater than 90%. "PEER GROUP" shall mean the corporations listed on Exhibit 1 to this Award Agreement, subject to the adjustments to such group as permitted under the Administrative Rules. "RETIREMENT" means a termination of employment with the Company and each of its subsidiaries, with the consent of the Company, at or after (i) attaining age 55 and (ii) completing five years of employment with the Company and/or any subsidiary of the Company. "TARGET" shall mean a relative standing of the Company's TSR as against the TSR of the Peer Group, in each case for the TSR Performance Period, of equal to or greater than 50% but less than 75%. "THRESHOLD" shall mean a relative standing of the Company's TSR as against the TSR of the Peer Group, in each case for the TSR Performance Period, of equal to or greater than 25% but less than 50%. "TSR PERFORMANCE LEVEL" means the measure of Company TSR performance relative to the Peer Group, as set forth on page 2 of this Award Agreement. In determining the final Performance Level, the Committee shall use straight-line interpolation between Threshold and Target, between Target and Excellent, and between Excellent and Outstanding. No TSR Reward will be earned for a Performance Level less than Threshold. No additional TSR Reward above Outstanding will be earned for a Performance Level greater than Outstanding.
SECTION 2: TSRP AWARD 2.1 Subject to the attainment of the TSR Performance Levels and to the terms and conditions otherwise set forth in the Plan, the TSRP and this Award Agreement, the Company awards to Participant the TSRP Award described in the first two pages of this Award Agreement with respect to the Performance Period described therein. SECTION 3: PAYMENT 3.1 Subject to the withholding obligations and any requirements of Section 4 then applicable, the Company shall deliver to the Participant certificates representing the TSR Rewards, if any, for the TSR Performance Period within 75 days after the end of the TSR Performance Period. 3.2 If the Participant terminates employment with the Company and each subsidiary of the Company during a then uncompleted TSR Performance Period for reasons other than death, Disability or Retirement, any TSR Target Award for any then uncompleted TSR Performance Period shall be forfeited automatically and the shares represented by such TSR Target Awards shall again be eligible for awards under the Rules. 3.3 If the Participant terminates employment with the Company and each Subsidiary of the Company during a then uncompleted TSR Performance Period due to the Participant's death, Disability, or Retirement, a pro rata award based on the number of full months worked by the Participant during that Performance Period will be calculated, based on goal achievement over the entire performance period. Any award determined to be payable shall be paid after the end of the applicable Performance Period. SECTION 4: MISCELLANEOUS 4.1 General Restriction. To the extent any TSR Target Award is denominated in Common Stock under this Award Agreement, it shall be subject to the requirement that if at any time the Committee shall determine that any listing or registration of the shares of Common Stock or any consent or approval of any governmental body or any other agreement or consent is necessary or desirable as a condition of the issuance of shares of Common Stock or cash in satisfaction thereof, such issuance of shares of Common Stock may not be consummated unless such requirement is satisfied in a manner acceptable to the Committee. The Company shall in no event be obligated to register any securities pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 (as the same shall be in effect from time to time) or to take any other affirmative action to cause the issuance of shares pursuant to the distribution of TSR Rewards to comply with any law or regulation of any governmental authority. 4.2 Non-Assignability. No TSR Target Award granted under this Award Agreement shall be assignable or transferable by the Participant, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During the life of the Participant, any TSR Rewards shall be payable only to the Participant. No assignment or transfer of a TSR Target Award or of the rights represented thereby, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise (except by will or the laws of descent and distribution), shall vest in the assignee or transferee any interest or right herein whatsoever, and immediately upon such purported assignment or transfer, the TSR Target Awards shall terminate and become of no further effect. 4.3 Withholding Obligations. Whenever the Company makes delivery under the Plan, in whole or in part, the Company shall notify the Participant of the amount of withholding for tax, if any, which must be paid under federal and, where applicable, state and local law. The Company shall, in the discretion of the Company, but with the consent of the Committee, arrange for payment for such withholding for taxes in any one or combination of the following ways: (i) acceptance of an amount in cash paid by the Participant; or (ii) reduction in the number of shares to be issued by that number of shares which, in aggregate, have a value equal to such withholding amount. If the full amount of the required
withholding is not recovered in the above manner, the Participant shall, forthwith upon receipt of notice, remit the deficiency to the Company. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued or delivered to the Participant (and/or the Participant's designee) until all applicable withholding obligations shall have been satisfied in full. 4.4 Delivery of Certificates. As soon as practicable after compliance by the Participant with all applicable conditions including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of the Withholding Obligations described in Section 4.3 hereof, the Company will issue and deliver by mail, or cause delivery by mail, to the Participant at the address specified by the Participant in writing, certificates registered in the name of the Participant (and/or the Participant's designee) for the number of shares of Common Stock which the Participant is entitled to receive (subject to reduction for withholding as provided in Section 4.3 hereof) under the provisions of this Award Agreement. 4.5 No Right to Employment. Nothing in the Plan or in this Award Agreement shall confer upon the Participant the right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or affect any right that the Company or a subsidiary may have to terminate the employment of the Participant. 4.6 Amendment or Termination of the Plan. The Plan, or any part thereof (including the TSRP and/or Administrative Rules) may be terminated or may, from time to time, be amended, each in accordance with the Plan, TSRP or Administrative Rules, as applicable, provided, however, the termination or amendment of the Plan, the Administrative Rules or TSRP shall not, without the consent of the Participant, affect Participant's rights under this Award Agreement. 4.7 Investment Representation. Under the federal and/or state securities laws, the Participant may be required to deliver, and, if so, shall deliver, to the Committee, upon demand by the Committee, at the time of any payment of Common Stock, a written representation that the shares to be acquired are to be acquired for investment and not for resale or with a view to the distribution thereof. Upon such demand, delivery of such representation prior to delivery of any shares shall be a condition precedent to the right of the Participant to receive any shares. 4.8 No Rights as Shareholder. The Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to the Award evidenced this Award Agreement unless and until a certificate for shares of Common Stock is issued to the Participant. 4.9 Adjustment of Award. In the event of any change or changes in the outstanding Common Stock of the Company by reason of any stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination or exchange of shares or any rights offering to purchase a substantial amount of Common Stock at a price substantially below fair market value or of any similar change affecting the Common Stock, any of which takes effect after the first grant of a TSR Target Award under this Award Agreement, the Committee may, in its discretion, appropriately adjust the number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued under this Award Agreement, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to TSR Target Awards under this Award Agreement and any and all other adjustments deemed appropriate by the Committee to prevent substantial dilution or enlargement of the rights granted to the Participant in such manner as the Committee shall deem appropriate. Any adjustment so made shall be final and binding upon the Participant. 4.10 Awards Not a Bar to Corporate Event. The existence of the TSR Target Awards granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or the power of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the Company's capital structure or its business, or any merger or consolidation of the Company, or any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Common Stock or the rights thereof, or the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.
4.11 Not Income for Qualified Plans. No amounts of income received by an Participant pursuant to this Award Agreement shall be considered compensation for purposes of any pension or retirement plan, insurance plan or any other employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its affiliates. 4.12 Meaning of Participant. Whenever the word "Participant" is used in any provision of this Award Agreement under circumstances where the provision should logically be construed to apply to the executors, the administrators, or the person or persons to whom the TSR Target Awards may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, the word "Participant" shall be deemed to include such person or persons. 4.13 Determinations of Committee. The actions taken and determinations of the Committee made pursuant to this Award Agreement and of the Committee pursuant to the Plan, the TSRP and the Administrative Rules shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Company and upon the Participant. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action taken or determination made relating to this Award Agreement, the Plan, the TSRP, or the Administrative Rules if made in good faith.
EXHIBIT 1: LIST OF PEER COMPANIES (2004 - 2006 PERFORMANCE PERIOD) AK Steel Corporation Alcan, Inc. Alcoa Inc. Carpenter Technology Corporation Commonwealth Industries, Inc. IPSCO Steel, Inc. International Steel Group Inc. Kennametal Inc. Nucor Corporation Quanex Corporation Reliance Steel & Aluminum Co. RTI International Metals Steel Dynamics Titanium Metals Corporation U.S. Steel Corporation

EXHIBIT 10.3 FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT This Restricted Stock Agreement (the "Agreement") made as of the 11th day of March, 2004 by and between ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation") and ___________________ (the "Employee"). WHEREAS, the Corporation sponsors and maintains the Allegheny Technologies Incorporated Stock 2000 Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan"); WHEREAS, the Corporation desires to encourage the Employee to remain an employee of the Corporation and, during such employment, to contribute substantially to the financial performance of the Corporation and, to provide that incentive, the Corporation has awarded the Employee an aggregate of _______ shares of restricted shares of the common stock of the Corporation, $0.10 par value per share ("Common Stock"), [equal to (I) the applicable base salary times _________ (ii) divided by $11.385 (which is the average of the high and low sales prices of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on March 11, 2004)] under the Incentive Plan subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Agreement (together with any increases for dividends paid in accordance with Paragraph 2(d) or adjustments as provided in Paragraph 8, below, the "Restricted Shares"); WHEREAS, half of the Restricted Shares are subject to the Corporation's attainment of the performance requirements set forth in Paragraph 3(a) (the "Performance Criteria"); and half of the Restricted Shares are subject to the Employee's remaining an Employee (except in instances of death, disability or Retirement as described below) during the Restriction Period set forth in Paragraph 3(b), subject to accelerated termination of the Restriction in the event of attainment of the Performance Criteria; and WHEREAS, the Corporation and the Employee desire to evidence the award of the Restricted Shares and the terms and conditions applicable thereto in this Restricted Stock Agreement. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants contained herein and intending to be legally bound, the Corporation and the Employee agree as follows: 1. Grant of Restricted Shares. The Corporation hereby grants to the Employee, as of the date first written above, the Restricted Shares subject to the restrictions and other terms and conditions set forth herein. Simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Employee shall deliver to the Corporation a stock power endorsed in blank relating to the Restricted Shares (including in such power any increases or adjustments to the Restricted Shares). As soon as practicable after the Date of Grant, the Corporation shall direct that the Restricted Shares be registered in the name of and issued to the Employee and initially bearing the legend described in Paragraph 6. The Restricted Shares and any certificate or certificates representing the Restricted Shares shall be held in the custody of the Corporation or
its designee until the expiration of the applicable Restrictions. Upon any forfeiture in accordance with Paragraph 4 of the Restricted Shares, the forfeited shares and any certificate or certificates representing the forfeited Restricted Shares shall be canceled. 2. Restrictions. Employee shall have all rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Corporation with respect to the Restricted Shares, except that the following restrictions shall apply: (a) None of the Restricted Shares may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise encumbered or disposed of during the "Restriction Period" as defined below, except to the extent of the Corporation's earlier attainment of the Performance Criteria, as defined below. (b) The Restricted Shares are subject to forfeiture during the Restriction Period in accordance with Paragraph 4 of this Agreement. (c) The Restricted Shares and any certificate representing the Restricted Shares shall be held in custody by the Corporation or its designee until such time as either the Performance Criteria are attained or the Restriction Period shall have been completed. (d) Dividends paid with respect to the Restricted Shares during the Restriction Period shall not be paid to the Employee and, instead, shall be converted into additional shares of Restricted Stock at the price at which shares of common stock of the Corporation are purchased under the Corporation's outstanding dividend reinvestment program and on the date such purchases are made and such shares of Restricted Stock shall be additions to the shares subject to the Restrictions hereunder, provided, however, the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, determine at any time or from time to time, to pay such dividends in cash directly to the Employee. 3. Term of Restriction. (a) Subject to the forfeiture provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Agreement, the Restrictions shall lapse (i) with respect to half of the Restricted Shares on the earlier of (x) January 1, 2009 if the Employee is an employee of the Corporation on January 1, 2009, unless the Employee's cessation of employment was due to the Employee's death, disability or Retirement (as defined below), or (y) the attainment of the Performance Criteria and (ii) with respect to half of the Restricted Shares, the attainment of the Performance Criteria. With respect to the half of the Restricted Shares subject to the Performance Criteria, if the Corporation does not attain the Performance Criteria, such half of the Restricted Shares shall be forfeited immediately upon the completion of the three-year measurement period for the Performance Criteria. (b) For purposes of this Agreement, the "Performance Criteria" shall mean that the Net Loss of the Corporation, measured under GAAP, shall not exceed, in the aggregate, $60 million for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 fiscal years of the Corporation. The period for measuring
the Performance Criteria shall end as of December 31, 2006 and the Personnel and Compensation Committee or the Stock Incentive Award Subcommittee, as applicable, shall as promptly as possible following the completion of the audit of the Corporation for the 2006 fiscal year determine whether the Performance Criteria have been met. (c) The period from the Date of Grant until the lapse of the applicable of the Restrictions with respect to the Restricted Shares is the "Restriction Period" for purposes of this Agreement. (d) As soon as administratively practicable following the lapse of the Restrictions without a forfeiture of the applicable Restricted Shares, and upon the satisfaction of all other applicable conditions as to such Restricted Shares, including, but not limited to, the payment by the Employee of all applicable withholding taxes, if any, the Corporation shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the Employee shares of Common Stock, which may be in the form of a certificate or certificates for such shares, equal in number to the applicable Restricted Shares, which shall not be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth above and shall not bear the legend described in Paragraph 6. Without limiting the foregoing, (i) if the Performance Criteria are met, all Restricted Shares shall become non-forfeitable and such Shares or the certificate representing such non-forfeitable shares of common stock of the Corporation shall be delivered as described above and (ii) if the Performance Criteria are not met, (x) half of the Restricted Shares shall be forfeited immediately after the end of the measurement period for such Performance Criteria and (y) the remaining half of the Restricted Shares shall be non-forfeitable, if at all, at the end of the Restriction Period. 4. Forfeiture of Restricted Shares. If Employee's employment with the Corporation and all of its direct or indirect subsidiaries is terminated by either party for any reason, including, but not limited to, the involuntary termination of the Employee's employment with the Corporation for any reason, with or without cause, other than the Employee's death, disability or retirement with the consent of the Corporation when the Employee is at least 55 years of age with at least five years of service ("Retirement"), (i) all rights of the Employee to the Restricted Shares which remain subject to the Restrictions shall terminate immediately and be forfeited in their entirety, and (ii) the forfeited Restricted Shares and any stock certificate or certificates representing the forfeited Restricted Shares shall be canceled. If the Employee dies or becomes disabled during the Restriction Period, the Restricted Shares will immediately vest. If the Employee retires with the consent of the Corporation when the Employee is at least 55 years of age with at least five years of service, the Employee (or the Employee's beneficiary) shall receive the Restricted Shares when, if and to the extent, the Restrictions lapse under Paragraph 3. 5. Change of Control. All Restricted Shares shall fully vest in the event of a Change of Control as defined in the Incentive Plan. 6. Legend. During the Restriction Period, the shares of Restricted Stock and any share certificate or certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares shall be endorsed with the
following legend (in addition to any legend required under applicable securities laws or any agreement by which the Corporation is bound): THE TRANSFERABILITY OF THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE IS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF A RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BY AND BETWEEN ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED AND THE HOLDER OF THIS CERTIFICATE. A COPY OF SUCH AGREEMENT IS ON FILE AT THE OFFICE OF THE CORPORATION. 7. Withholding. The Corporation or its direct or indirect subsidiary may withhold from the number of Restricted Shares or from any cash amount payable hereunder or any other cash payments due to Employee all taxes, including social security taxes, which the Corporation or its direct or indirect subsidiary is required or otherwise authorized to withhold with respect to the Restricted Shares. 8. Adjustments to Number of Shares. Any shares issued to Employee with respect to the Restricted Shares in the event of any change in the number of outstanding common stock of the Corporation through the declaration of a stock dividend or a stock split or combination of shares or any other similar capitalization change shall be deemed to be Restricted Shares subject to all the terms set forth in this Agreement. 9. No Right to Continued Employment; Effect on Benefit Plans. This Agreement shall not confer upon Employee any right with respect to continuance of his or her employment or other relationship, nor shall it interfere in any way with the right of the Corporation or its direct or indirect subsidiary to terminate his or her employment or other relationship at any time. Income realized by Employee pursuant to this Agreement shall not be included in Employee's earnings for the purpose of any benefit plan in which Employee may be enrolled or for which Employee may become eligible unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan. 10. Employee Representations. In connection with the issuance of the Restricted Shares, Employee represents the following: (a) Employee has reviewed with Employee's own tax advisors, the federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby. Employee is relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Corporation or any of its agents. Employee understands that Employee (and not the Corporation) shall be responsible for Employee's own tax liability that may arise as a result of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby. (b) Employee has received, read and understood this Agreement and the Incentive Plan and agrees to abide by and be bound by their respective terms and conditions. 11. Miscellaneous.
(a) Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the domestic laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania without regard to such Commonwealth's principles of conflicts of laws. (b) Successors and Assigns. The provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the successors, permitted assigns, heirs, executors and administrators of the parties hereto. Neither this Agreement nor any rights hereunder shall be assignable or otherwise subject to hypothecation without the consent of all parties hereto. (c) Entire Agreement; Amendment. This Agreement contains the entire understanding between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, inducements or conditions, express or implied, oral or written, with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. This Agreement may not be amended or modified without the written consent of the Corporation and Employee. (d) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be taken to be an original and all of which together shall constitute one document. (e) Definitions. Initially capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Restricted Stock Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Incentive Plan.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Restricted Shares Agreement as of the date first written above. ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED By: -------------------------------------------------------- Title: Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Chief Legal & Compliance Officer PARTICIPANT: WITNESS: - --------------------------- ---------------------------

EXHIBIT 10.4 ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED KEY EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE PLAN EFFECTIVE AS OF JANUARY 1, 2004 ARTICLE I. ADOPTION AND PURPOSE OF THE KEY EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE PLAN 1.01 ADOPTION. This Key Executive Performance Plan is adopted by the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors as a part of the Allegheny Technologies Incorporated executive compensation program effective January 1, 2004. The KEPP Payments, if any, earned under this Plan are intended as performance based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as incentive compensation determined solely with reference to attainment in predetermined levels of Earnings and Operational Goals within the relevant Performance Period. 1.02 PURPOSE. The purposes of the KEPP are (i) to direct the focus of key management employees to the achievement of goals deemed necessary for the success of the Corporation, (ii) to assist the Corporation in retaining and motivating selected key management employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries who will contribute to the success of the Corporation and (iii) to reward key management employees for the overall success of the Corporation as determined with reference to predetermined levels of Earnings of the Corporation and attainment of Operational Goals. The KEPP is intended to act as an incentive to participating key management employees to achieve long-term objectives that will inure to the benefit of all stockholders of the Corporation measured in terms of achievement of predetermined levels of Earnings of the Corporation and attainment of Operational Goals. 1.03 PLAN DOCUMENT. This KEPP plan document is intended as the plan document as adopted by the Committee, which will govern all Performance Periods of the KEPP beginning in or after 2004. ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS For purposes of this Plan, the capitalized terms set forth below shall have the following meanings: 2.01 AWARD means an opportunity to earn a KEPP Payment in a particular Performance Period. Each Award shall be denominated in dollars that can be earned upon attainment of predetermined Earnings thresholds (Level 1) and the maximum amount that may be paid with respect to Operational Goals before the application of Negative Discretion (Level 2).
2.02 AWARD AGREEMENT means a written agreement between the Corporation and a Participant or a written acknowledgment from the Corporation specifically setting forth the terms and conditions of a KEPP Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Article VI of this Plan. 2.03 BOARD means the Board of Directors of the Corporation. 2.04 EARNINGS means the earnings of the Corporation determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 2.05 CAUSE means a determination by the Committee that a Participant has engaged in conduct that is dishonest or illegal, involves moral turpitude or jeopardizes the Corporation's right to operate its business in the manner in which it is now operated. 2.06 CHANGE IN CONTROL means any of the events set forth below: (a) The acquisition in one or more transactions, other than from the Corporation, by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of a number of Corporation Voting Securities in excess of 25% of the Corporation Voting Securities unless such acquisition has been approved by the Board; or (b) Any election has occurred of persons to the Board that causes two-thirds of the Board to consist of persons other than (i) persons who were members of the Board on January 1, 2001 and (ii) persons who were nominated for election as members of the Board at a time when two-thirds of the Board consisted of persons who were members of the Board on January 1, 2001; provided, however, that any person nominated for election by the Board at a time when at least two-thirds of the members of the Board were persons described in clauses (i) and/or (ii) or by persons who were themselves nominated by such Board shall, for this purpose, be deemed to have been nominated by a Board composed of persons described in clause (i); or (c) Approval by the stockholders of the Corporation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation, unless, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation, all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the respective beneficial owners of the Outstanding Stock and Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation, following such reorganization, merger or consolidation beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors or trustees, as the case may be, of the entity resulting from such reorganization, merger or consolidation in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the Outstanding Stock and Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to such reorganization, merger or consolidation, as the case may be; or
(d) Approval by the stockholders of the Corporation of (i) a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation or (ii) a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Corporation. 2.07 COMMITTEE means the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board. 2.08 CORPORATION means Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, and its successors. 2.09 CORPORATION VOTING SECURITIES means the combined voting power of all outstanding voting securities of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board. 2.10 DATE OF AWARD means the date as of which an Award is granted in accordance with Article VI of this Plan. 2.11 DISABILITY means any physical or mental injury or disease of a permanent nature which renders a Participant incapable of meeting the requirements of the employment performed by such Participant immediately prior to the commencement of such disability. The determination of whether a Participant is disabled shall be made by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant's employment by the Corporation or an applicable subsidiary terminates by reason of a disability, as defined in an Employment Agreement between such Participant and the Corporation or an applicable subsidiary, such Participant shall be deemed to be disabled for purposes of the KEPP. 2.12 EFFECTIVE DATE means January 1, 2004. 2.13 EXCHANGE ACT means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 2.14 KEPP PAYMENT means the amount actually earned by a Participant in a particular Performance Period. Each KEPP Payment shall be the sum of the amounts earned by a Participant during a Performance Period as Level I and Level 2 achievement. 2.15 LEVEL 1 means that portion of an Award that may be earned based on attainment of Earnings. 2.16 LEVEL 2 means that portion of an Award that may be earned, after application of Negative Discretion by the Committee, based on attainment of Operational Goals. The Level 2 portion of any Award shall be denominated in the maximum amount that may be earned with respect to Operational Goals prior to the application of Negative Discretion.
2.17 NEGATIVE DISCRETION means the power of the Committee to be exercised solely in the Committee's discretion to reduce the Level 2 portion of any Award. It is anticipated that the Committee will review with the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation the relative attainment of Operational Goals during a particular Performance Period before the Committee exercises its Negative Discretion. 2.18 OPERATIONAL GOALS means the goals set by the Committee at the commencement of a Performance Period to be attained by the Participants during the course of a particular Performance Period. Operational Goals will be set forth in terms of operating objectives and/or criteria, which may or may not be earnings measures that, in the judgment of the Committee after consultation with the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, will enhance the success of the Corporation during and beyond a particular Performance Period. 2.19 PARTICIPANT means any key management employee selected by the Committee, pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Plan, as eligible to participate under the KEPP for any one or more Performance Period. 2.20 PERFORMANCE PERIOD means a period of more than one fiscal year of the Corporation over which the attainment of Earnings and Operational Goals shall be measured. 2.21 PLAN or KEPP means the Key Executive Performance Plan as set forth in this plan document or as the same may be amended from time to time. 2.22 RETIREMENT means, with the consent of the Corporation, a termination of employment with the Corporation and each subsidiary of the Corporation at or after (i) attaining age 55 and (ii) completing five years of employment with the Corporation and/or any subsidiary of the Corporation. 2.23 WITHHOLDING OBLIGATIONS means the amount of federal, state and local income and payroll taxes the Corporation determines in good faith must be withheld with respect to a KEPP Payment. Withholding Obligations may be settled by the Participant, as permitted by the Committee in its discretion, in cash, previously owned shares of common stock of the Corporation or any combination of the foregoing. ARTICLE III. ADMINISTRATION In addition to any power reserved to the Committee under the governing documents of the Corporation, the KEPP shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have exclusive and final authority and discretion in each determination, interpretation or other action affecting the KEPP and its Participants. The Committee shall have the sole and absolute authority and discretion to interpret the KEPP, to amend or modify this Plan for the KEPP, to select, in accordance with Section 5.01 of this Plan, the persons who will be Participants hereunder, to set all Earnings thresholds and
Operational Goals, to determine all performance criteria, levels of Awards and KEPP Payments payable, to determine, after review of the Corporation's financial reports, the degree to which any threshold of Earnings has been achieved for a Performance Period with respect to the Level 1 portion of any Award, to review the attainment of Operational Goals and exercise Negative Discretion with respect to the Level 2 portion of any Award, to impose such conditions and restrictions as it determines appropriate and to take such other actions and make such other determinations in connection with the KEPP as it may deem necessary or advisable. ARTICLE IV. OVERVIEW OF KEPP 4.01 CASH BONUS PLAN. KEPP is designed to pay cash bonuses to participating key executives after the end of a Performance Period based on the level (i) of achievement of predetermined Earnings thresholds and (ii) attainment of Operational Goals (to which the Committee may exercise Negative Discretion). 4.02 LEVELS OF AWARDS. KEPP Awards are granted with two levels. The first level, Level 1, is a cash bonus payment based on achievement of Earnings that the Committee has no discretion to reduce. KEPP Payments earned under Level 1 will be earned solely with reference to Earnings attained during the Performance Period. The second level, Level 2 is a cash bonus payment based on level of attainment of Operational Goals that the Committee has the Negative Discretion to reduce. The Committee's judgment in exercising its Negative Discretion to arrive at a KEPP Payment under Level 2 is expected to be guided by the degree to which the Corporation generally or the participating key executives in particular have attained predetermined Operational Goals. The Committee is expected to review the level of attainment of Operational Goals with the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation before exercising any Negative Discretion. 4.03 PARTICIPATING KEY EXECUTIVES. It is intended that the number of participating key executives shall be limited to those key executives with the most direct influence on the attainment of Earnings and operational goals. ARTICLE V. PARTICIPATION 5.01 DESIGNATION OF PARTICIPANTS. Participants in the KEPP shall be such key management employees of the Corporation or of its subsidiaries as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may designate as eligible to participate in the KEPP for any one or more Performance Periods. No later than 90 days after the commencement of each Performance Period during the term of the KEPP, the Committee shall designate the Participants who are eligible to participate in the KEPP during such Performance Period. The Committee's designation of a Participant with respect to any Performance Period shall not require the Committee to designate such person as a Participant with respect to any other Performance Period. The Committee shall consider such factors as it deems
pertinent in selecting Participants. The Committee shall promptly provide to each person selected as a Participant written notice of such selection. ARTICLE VI. GRANTS UNDER THE KEPP 6.01 ANNUAL DETERMINATION REGARDING PERFORMANCE PERIOD. No later than the 60th day of each calendar year, the Committee shall determine whether to establish a Performance Period, provided, however, for a Performance Period established in calendar year 2004, the Committee may make a determination under this Section 6.01 at any time prior to the 90th day of calendar year 2004. 6.02 DETERMINATION OF GRANTS, AWARDS (BOTH LEVEL 1 AND LEVEL 2) AND PERFORMANCE CRITERIA. For each Performance Period, the Committee shall take the following actions no later than the 90th day of the first calendar year of that Performance Period: (a) Identify Participants for that Performance Period. (b) Establish the level of Level 1 and Level 2 opportunities for each Participant. (c) Set the Earnings target(s). (d) Set the Operational Goals and relative weightings after discussing such goals and weighting with the Chief Executive Officer in order to bring the Operational Goals as closely as possible in line with the Corporation's business plans. 6.03 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If a Participant terminates employment with the Corporation and each subsidiary of the Corporation during a then uncompleted Performance Period for reasons other than death, Disability or Retirement, any KEPP Award for any then uncompleted Performance Period shall be forfeited automatically. If a Participant terminates employment with the Corporation and each subsidiary of the Corporation for reasons of death, Disability or Retirement during a then uncompleted Performance Period, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a pro rata KEPP Payment for each then uncompleted Performance Period determined: (a) when the KEPP Payments for all other Participants in such Performance Period(s) are determined; and (b) based on the actual level of achievement of Earnings for that Performance Period and the attainment of Operational Goals, after the application of Negative Discretion.
ARTICLE VII. DETERMINATION OF ACHIEVEMENT OF EARNINGS AND OPERATIONAL GOALS 7.01 DETERMINATION OF EARNINGS AND OPERATIONAL GOALS. As promptly as administratively feasible but in no event later than the March 1st of the calendar year following last calendar year of each Performance Period, the Committee shall determine Earnings of the Corporation and the attainment of Operational Goals and the degree, if any, to which the Committee will exercise Negative Discretion. 7.02 DETERMINATION OF KEPP PAYMENTS. KEPP Payments for a particular Performance Period for a particular Participant shall be the result of adding (i) the amount earned by a particular Participant under Level 1 based on the Corporation's actual Earnings during the Performance Period and (ii) the amount earned by a particular Participant under Level 2 based on attainment of Operational Goals and after the application, if any, by the Committee of Negative Discretion. ARTICLE VIII. MISCELLANEOUS 8.01 CHANGE IN CONTROL. In the event of a Change in Control, KEPP Payments shall be determined for all then uncompleted Performance Periods as of the date of the Change in Control at the highest level Earnings for each such uncompleted Performance Period and KEPP Payments shall be delivered to the Participant as soon after the Change in Control as is administratively feasible. 8.02 NON-UNIFORM DETERMINATIONS. The actions and determinations of the Committee need not be uniform and may be taken or made by the Committee selectively among employees or Participants, whether or not similarly situated. 8.03 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN. The Committee shall have complete power and authority to amend or terminate this Plan at any time it is deemed necessary or appropriate. No termination or amendment of the Plan may, without the consent of the Participant to whom any award shall theretofore have been granted under the KEPP, adversely affect the right of such individual under such award; provided, however, that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, make such provision in the Award Agreement for amendments which, in its sole discretion, it deems appropriate.

Exhibit 99.1 (ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES LOGO) SPECIALTY MATERIALS THAT MAKE OUR WORLD 1000 Six PPG Place, Pittsburgh, PA 15222-5479 NEWS RELEASE... Contact: Dan L. Greenfield 412- 394-3004 ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES ANNOUNCES SECOND QUARTER RESULTS - SALES INCREASED 32% COMPARED TO THE SECOND QUARTER 2003 - OPERATING PROFIT INCREASED TO $38.1 MILLION AS A RESULT OF IMPROVED PERFORMANCE ACROSS ALL BUSINESS SEGMENTS, ESPECIALLY FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS - SECOND QUARTER NET INCOME OF $26.6 MILLION, OR $0.31 PER SHARE, INCLUDES PREVIOUSLY ANNOUNCED NET SPECIAL GAIN OF $40.4 MILLION, OR $0.48 PER SHARE - GROSS COST REDUCTIONS TOTALED $63 MILLION IN THE FIRST HALF 2004, RUNNING WELL AHEAD OF $104 MILLION PLAN - OPEB LIABILITY REDUCED BY $331 MILLION, OR 36% Pittsburgh, PA - July 20, 2004 - Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) reported net income of $26.6 million, or $0.31 per share, on sales of $646.5 million for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004. As previously announced, results for the quarter included a net special gain of $40.4 million, or $0.48 per share, related to actions taken to control certain salaried retiree medical costs, net of costs associated with Allegheny Ludlum's new labor agreement and the acquisition of the J&L Specialty Steel (J&L) assets. In addition, results included a LIFO (last-in, first-out) inventory valuation reserve charge of $26.1 million, primarily due to continued increases in raw material costs. Retirement benefit expense, primarily non-cash, was $34.0 million, or $(0.40) per share, in the quarter. Second quarter 2004 results do not include an income tax provision or benefit as a result of a deferred tax valuation allowance recorded in the fourth quarter 2003. In the second quarter 2003, ATI reported a net loss of $26.0 million, or $(0.32) per share on sales of $489.9 million. Results included retirement benefit expense of $33.4 million, or $(0.26) per share. Results for the six months ended June 30, 2004, were a net loss of $23.8 million, or $(0.30) per share, on sales of $1,224.3 million, compared to a net loss of $53.1 million, or $(0.66) per share, on sales of $970.4 million for the first six months of 2003. Six months 2004 results include a LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge of $74.2 million and retirement benefit expense, primarily non-cash, of $70.0 million, or $(0.87) per share. Six months 2003 results included an income tax benefit of $29.0 million, or $0.36 per share, a $1.3 million, or $(0.02) per share, charge for the cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, and retirement benefit expense of $68.2 million, or $(0.54) per share. Page 1
"During the second quarter 2004, we made substantial progress toward transforming our stainless steel business and delivering on-going positive earnings per share," said Pat Hassey, ATI's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "A new progressive labor agreement covering represented employees at ATI Allegheny Ludlum was reached with the United Steelworkers of America (USWA). We completed the J&L asset acquisition and are making good progress integrating our new facilities. "In addition, we reduced our Other Post Retirement Benefit (OPEB) liability by approximately $331 million, reflecting actions taken in the second quarter to control our retiree medical costs and the favorable impact of the new Federal Medicare prescription drug program. "Demand for our products continues to be strong. Compared to the second quarter 2003, sales increased significantly in all three of our business segments. Operating profit also increased across all of our segments. "The performance of our Flat-Rolled Products segment during the second quarter was especially impressive. Sales increased by 47% compared to the same period last year. Operating profit reached $20 million as a result of strong demand, price restoration and the impact of our cost reduction efforts prior to the J&L asset acquisition. "In our High Performance Metals segment, shipments of our premium titanium alloys increased by 23% compared to last year's second quarter. Demand for commercial aerospace spare parts improved considerably as revenue passenger miles began to recover. Our exotic alloys business continued to perform well. Demand remained strong from the government, high-energy physics and medical markets and corrosion markets, particularly in Asia. "Sales in our Engineered Products segment increased as a result of improved demand from several key markets, as well as a pickup in overall manufacturing demand. "The effects of the ATI Business System and our ongoing cost reductions were apparent in the second quarter. Operating profit as a percentage of sales improved to nearly 6%, which is the highest level since the 2000 third quarter. This was achieved even with the negative impact of significant LIFO inventory valuation reserve charges. Managed working capital as a percent of annualized sales improved to approximately 27% at the end of the quarter compared to nearly 31% at the end of 2003, excluding the effect of the J&L asset acquisition. We also achieved $63 million of cost reductions, before the effects of inflation, in the first half of 2004. We are running well ahead of our initial $104 million cost reduction goal for 2004. This does not include the previously announced $200 million of cost structure improvements and synergies from the J&L asset acquisition and new labor agreement. "Cash generation over the first six months has been strong. Cash on hand was $64 million, only $16 million less than at year-end 2003, even though managed working capital increased by $111 million in the first six months of 2004. In addition, cash outlays for net capital investments, acquisitions and debt repayments totaled over $40 million in the first half of 2004. We continued to have no cash borrowings under our secured credit facility. "As the third quarter 2004 begins, we expect sales to continue to grow. We also expect cost reductions and cost structure improvements to further improve operating margins. Retirement benefit expense will be further reduced by $9 million in the third quarter 2004. We expect to see continued improvement in our operating results and are targeting to achieve positive earnings per share in the second half 2004 without the benefit of special items." Page 2
SECOND QUARTER 2004 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS - SALES were $646.5 million, up 32% compared to the second quarter 2003. Sales were up 47% in the Flat-Rolled Products segment, 15% in the High Performance Metals segment, and 16% in the Engineered Products segment. During the quarter, we increased base-selling prices for most of our products and implemented additional surcharges for certain raw materials for many of our products. - OPERATING PROFIT increased to $38.1 million as a result of improved performance across all of the business segments. This improvement was led by the Flat-Rolled Products segment with an operating profit of $20.0 million, the first operating profit for this segment since the 2002 third quarter. Results for 2004 included a LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge of $26.1 million, due primarily to an increase in costs in the second quarter 2004 compared to the fourth quarter 2003 for most of the major raw materials that we use, especially chromium, molybdenum, and scrap. For the same 2003 period, the LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge was $9.3 million. - INCOME BEFORE TAXES was $26.6 million, compared to last year's loss of $40.8 million, which includes a net special gain of $40.4 million. Page 3
- RETIREMENT BENEFIT EXPENSE in the second quarter 2004 was $34.0 million compared to $33.4 million in the second quarter 2003. Approximately 81% of the 2004 retirement benefit expense is non-cash. - CASH FLOW from operations was $21.6 million in the first half 2004 as improved operating results offset increases in managed working capital due primarily to a $57.7 million increase in accounts receivable during the quarter, as well as higher gross inventory levels, which were partially offset by increased accounts payable. The higher accounts receivable resulted from increased sales, including the effects of raw material surcharges. Capital expenditures were $25.2 million. Cash on-hand ended the quarter at $64.0 million. We had no borrowings outstanding under our secured credit facility during the first half 2004. - COST REDUCTIONS, before the effects of inflation, totaled $63.2 million company-wide for the first half of 2004. Our initial 2004 cost reduction goal was established at $104 million, excluding the anticipated cost reductions and synergies from the J&L asset acquisition and the new labor agreement for ATI Allegheny Ludlum. FLAT-ROLLED PRODUCTS SEGMENT MARKET CONDITIONS - Demand remained good from the automotive and Asian infrastructure markets. Demand continued to be strong from the residential construction and remodeling markets. Demand improved from transportation and construction machinery markets. Our raw material surcharges, which continued to escalate during the quarter due to rising raw material prices, combined with higher base selling prices, resulted in higher average transaction prices compared to the second quarter 2003. SECOND QUARTER 2004 COMPARED TO SECOND QUARTER 2003 - Sales increased 47% to $379.2 million primarily due to improved demand from capital goods markets, the impact of higher raw material surcharges and base-selling price increases, and the J&L asset acquisition. Total tons shipped increased by approximately 13,200 tons, or 11%. Shipments of commodity products increased 6% and shipments of high-value products increased 23%. Average transaction prices, which include surcharges, were 32% higher. Average base-selling prices, which exclude surcharges, increased by approximately 10%. - The segment had operating income of $20.0 million compared to an operating loss of $6.2 million last year. The benefits of additional surcharges, higher base-selling prices and cost reduction initiatives were partially offset by higher raw material costs, which resulted in a LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge of $15.2 million in the second quarter 2004. The 2003 second quarter included a LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge of $9.1 million. - The J&L asset acquisition was completed June 1, 2004, and second quarter 2004 results include less than one month of sales, approximately $18 million, related to this transaction. However, since the acquisition was accounted for as a purchase, second quarter results essentially did not include any operating profit on sales of the purchased J&L inventory. In addition, results for the third quarter will not include any operating profit on sales of purchased inventory until the inventory acquired is depleted, which is expected to occur in the second half of the third quarter. - Energy costs increased $3.5 million, net of $1.0 million in gains from natural gas derivatives. - Results benefited from $21 million in cost reductions, before the effects of inflation. Page 4
HIGH PERFORMANCE METALS SEGMENT MARKET CONDITIONS - The commercial aerospace market remained stable. Demand improved considerably for spare parts from the commercial aerospace market and remained strong from the military aerospace market. Our exotic alloys business continued to benefit from sustained high demand from government, high energy physics and medical markets and corrosion markets, particularly in Asia. SECOND QUARTER 2004 COMPARED TO SECOND QUARTER 2003 - Sales increased 15% to $192.5 million. Shipments were up 23% for titanium alloys, while shipments declined 9% for nickel-based and specialty steel alloys and 7% for exotic alloys, both due in part to product mix. Average selling prices increased 26% for nickel-based and specialty steel alloys, and 9% for exotic alloys while average selling prices for titanium alloys were essentially flat. - Operating profit increased to $12.6 million compared to an operating profit of $11.6 million for the prior year period as improved sales and cost reduction initiatives offset the impact of higher raw material costs, and production inefficiencies and start-up costs associated with the Richburg, SC rolling mill following the completion of an extensive upgrade. The rise in raw material costs resulted in a LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge of $6.1 million in 2004, compared to $0.2 million in 2003. - Results benefited from $12 million of cost reductions, before the effects of inflation. ENGINEERED PRODUCTS SEGMENT MARKET CONDITIONS - Demand for tungsten products remained strong from the oil and gas market and demand improved from the automotive and transportation markets. Demand remained strong for forged products from the Class 8 truck market and for cast products from the improving manufacturing sector and transportation and wind energy markets. SECOND QUARTER 2004 COMPARED TO SECOND QUARTER 2003 - Sales improved 16% to $74.8 million. - Operating profit improved to $5.5 million compared to $3.2 million last year due to higher sales volumes, improved pricing, and the benefits from cost reductions, which offset higher raw material costs. The rise in raw material costs resulted in a LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge of $4.8 million in 2004 compared to no effect in 2003. - Results benefited from $3 million of cost reductions, before the effects of inflation. SPECIAL GAIN, NET - Results for the second quarter included a previously announced one-time net special gain of $40.4 million, or $0.48 per share: - A $71.5 million curtailment and settlement gain as a result of actions taken to cap, beginning in 2005, and then eliminate, beginning in 2010, certain retiree medical benefits not related to the new labor agreement. - A $25.4 million charge resulting from Transition Assistance Program (TAP) incentives related to the new labor agreement with the USWA. The TAP incentives Page 5
will be paid from ATI's pension fund over the next 2 1/2 years to 650 Allegheny Ludlum employees who retire by 2006. - A $5.7 million charge as a result of other costs associated with the new labor agreement and the J&L asset acquisition. RETIREMENT BENEFIT EXPENSE - Retirement benefit expense was $34.0 million in the second quarter 2004, compared to $33.4 million in the second quarter 2003. Approximately $27.2 million of the second quarter 2004 retirement benefit expense was non-cash. - For the second quarter 2004, retirement benefit expense included in cost of sales was $25.3 million, and in selling and administrative expenses was $8.7 million. For the second quarter 2003, retirement benefit expense included in cost of sales was $23.5 million, and in selling and administrative expenses was $9.9 million. - Actions taken during the second quarter 2004 to control retiree medical costs and the favorable impact from the enactment of the Federal Medicare prescription drug benefit program reduced ATI's OPEB liability by approximately $331 million, or 36%. At the beginning of 2004, retirement benefit expense (pension and OPEB) was estimated at $143 million for the year, including $68 million for OPEB. As a result of reduced OPEB liabilities, the revised OPEB expense estimate for 2004 is $46 million. Based on current actuarial assumptions, we expect OPEB expense for 2005 to be further reduced to approximately $23 million. - ATI is not required to make cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plan for 2004 and, based upon current actuarial studies, does not expect to be required to make cash contributions to its defined benefit pension plan during the next several years. OTHER EXPENSES - Corporate expenses for the second quarter 2004 were $8.9 million compared to $5.3 million in the year-ago period. This increase is due primarily to non-cash expenses associated with the Company's stock-based long-term incentive compensation programs, which more than offset savings associated with reductions in staffing and other efforts to control costs at the corporate office. - Excluding the effects of retirement benefit expense and an increase of $7.0 million in non-cash stock-based compensation expense compared to the prior year quarter, selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales declined to 6.5% in the 2004 second quarter from 8.6% in the same period of 2003. - No income tax benefit was recognized in the second quarter 2004 since we cannot tax benefit current operating losses due to cumulative losses incurred during 2001 through 2003. We recorded a valuation allowance in the 2003 fourth quarter for a major portion of our deferred tax assets in accordance with SFAS No. 109 "Accounting for Income Taxes". Future tax provisions or benefits will be recognized when taxable income exceeds the 2003 net operating tax loss carry-forward, or when tax losses, if any, are recoverable as cash refunds. Page 6
CASH FLOW, WORKING CAPITAL AND DEBT - Cash on hand was $64.0 million at June 30, 2004, a decrease of $15.6 million from 2003 year-end. - First half 2004 cash flow from operations was $21.6 million as improved operating results for 2004 and the receipt of a $6.9 million Federal income tax refund pertaining to our 2003 tax return offset a $110.9 million increase in managed working capital. - The increase in managed working capital was due to a $57.7 million increase in accounts receivable, which reflects the higher level of sales in the second quarter 2004, compared to the fourth quarter 2003, and a $110.3 million increase in inventory mostly as a result of higher raw material costs, which was partially offset by a $57.1 million increase in accounts payable. The majority of the increase in raw material costs should be recovered through surcharges. - At June 30, 2004, managed working capital was 26.9% of annualized sales, excluding the effect of the J&L asset acquisition, compared to 30.7% of annualized sales at 2003 year-end. We define managed working capital as accounts receivable and gross inventories less accounts payable. - Cash used in investing activities was $31.7 million in the first half 2004 and consisted primarily of $24.2 million of capital expenditures, net of $1.0 million of proceeds from the disposal of miscellaneous assets, and $7.5 million related to the J&L asset acquisition. - Cash used in financing activities was $5.5 million in the first half 2004, and included a decrease in net borrowings of $3.2 million and payment of dividends of $4.9 million, offset by $2.6 million of proceeds received from the exercise of stock options. - There were no borrowings outstanding during the first half 2004 under ATI's $325 million secured borrowing facility, although a portion of the letters of credit capacity was utilized. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT ADOPTED IN 2003 The adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" ("SFAS 143") resulted in an after-tax charge of $1.3 million, or $(0.02) per share in the 2003 first quarter. This charge is reported as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. Allegheny Technologies will conduct a conference call with investors and analysts on July 20, 2004, at 1 p.m. ET to discuss the financial results. The conference call will be broadcast live on www.alleghenytechnologies.com. To access the broadcast, click on "Second Quarter Conference Call". In addition, the conference call will be available through the CCBN website, located at www.ccbn.com. This news release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in this news release relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results or performance to materially differ from any future results or performance expressed or implied by such statements. Various of Page 7
these factors are described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements. Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) is one of the largest and most diversified specialty materials producers in the world, with revenues of approximately $1.9 billion in 2003. The Company has approximately 9,000 full time employees world-wide and its talented people use innovative technologies to offer growing global markets a wide range of specialty materials. High-value products include nickel-based and cobalt-based alloys and superalloys, titanium and titanium alloys, specialty steels, super stainless steel, exotic alloys, which include zirconium, hafnium and niobium, tungsten materials, and highly engineered strip and Precision Rolled Strip(R) products. In addition, we produce commodity specialty materials such as stainless steel sheet and plate, silicon and tool steels, and forgings and castings. The Allegheny Technologies website can be found at www.alleghenytechnologies.com. # # # Page 8
ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited - Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Page 9
ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES SALES AND OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS) BY BUSINESS SEGMENT (Unaudited - Dollars in millions) (a) Includes non-cash expenses of $27.2 million and $24.9 million for the 2004 and 2003 second quarter, respectively. (b) Includes year-to-date non-cash expenses of $56.9 million and $53.1 million for 2004 and 2003, respectively. Page 10
ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Current period unaudited--Dollars in millions) Page 11
ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited--Dollars in millions) Supplemental non-cash investing and financing activities On June 1, 2004, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of J&L Specialty Steel, LLC for consideration of $67.2 million. Cash paid at closing was $7.5 million, with promissory notes payable to the seller of $59.7 million. Page 12
ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited) Page 13
ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION MANAGED WORKING CAPITAL (Unaudited - Dollars in millions) Page 14


