FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20061025142353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
   October 25, 2006   
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
  (412) 394-2800    
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 25, 2006, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its third quarter 2006 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) the other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 25, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
DAN GREENFIELD:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Allegheny Technologies' earnings conference call for the third quarter 2006.
This conference call is being broadcast live on our website at alleghenytechnologies.com and on CCBN.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the conference call today are Pat Hassey, chairman, president and chief executive officer, and Rich Harshman, executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. Please note that all forward-looking statements made this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially. Here is Pat Hassey.
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thanks, Dan, and thanks, everyone... for joining us today.
I am pleased to report on the Company's continuing progress.
As you can see from the total results of the third quarter and YTD...
(1) Our major markets remain strong,
(2) Operating margins continue to improve,
(3) Our plants are delivering cost reductions effectively and efficiently.
In addition, we recently signed a $2.5 Billion LTA to supply the Boeing Corporation Titanium Mill Products for airframes, including the 787 Dreamliner.
This new Boeing contract is the first to validate our Titanium Sponge expansion plans, as well as our high performance metals strategic growth capital projects.
During this conference call, I would like to discuss....
 
ATI's Growth is being driven by:
Some Highlights of a strong third quarter performance:
Overall financial metrics were solid:
 
Here's an update on
ATI's strategic growth projects in titanium products and nickel-based alloys:
In addition, we plan to continue to buy titanium sponge from our outside suppliers. Our new internally produced titanium sponge is incremental. It enables ATI to significantly grow our titanium mill product shipments.
Concurrently, three of our titanium melt furnace expansion projects started operation. This is complementary to the new sponge capacity expansions. We expect all of our titanium melt projects to be in operation by the first quarter 2007.
In addition, four of our new nickel-based alloy and superalloy remelt furnaces are in operation.
 
As we have said in the past, it remains our intention to secure LTAs to load our new titanium and nickel-based superalloy capacity using our normal 85% contract to 15% spot business ratio. We are in the process of securing these long-term supply agreements to profitably grow ATI's participation in the jet engine, airframe, defense, and medical markets at a rate of return that is attractive to ATI shareholders.
Our strategic growth initiatives allow us to fully support our jet engine customers and provide significant growth opportunities for ATI's aerospace titanium in the airframe market.
For example, the recent announcement of our long-term agreement with The Boeing Company demonstrates how our fully integrated titanium products capacity enables ATI to grow in the expanding commercial airframe market.
Boeing and ATI will co-host a Boeing community awareness event in Pittsburgh during November. This event is about innovation, and the progress of the 787 Dreamliner. Boeing and ATI are working together to build the world's most advanced airplanes. We are pleased that ATI will co-cost this event with Boeing in Pittsburgh.
Turning to our Flat Rolled Products Business
When we started the journey to transform our flat-rolled products business in 2003, achieving $100 million in operating profit during a single quarter was more of a dream than a goal. Now, here we are discussing the third quarter 2006, and I am delighted to report that Flat-Rolled Products segment operating profit increased to over $105 million, with operating margins of 14.5%. This was accomplished in spite of a $42 million LIFO charge primarily due to the increasing cost of nickel. Without the LIFO charge, that is $147 million in operating profit for one quarter.
A lot has changed at our Allegheny Ludlum business, and more is happening in this business segment.
 
We have organized and capitalized on our industry consolidation to create a low-cost commodity sheet business, a high-value sheet business, a high-value plate business, a global electrical steel business, and a global precision strip business. We have achieved all cost objectives and goals as we originally outlined in the asset acquisition of J&L Specialty in 2004.
Our strategic renewal process is having a major impact. Briefly, we are focusing our global sales and marketing efforts on what we do well and selling to key growth markets those products that best fit our technology.
Continuing with our Flat-Rolled Products segment, during the first nine months of 2006
 
With the high price of nickel raw material units, many customers have been receptive to our alloy substitution marketing effort, The Switch Is On', it is really on. The switch to lower nickel bearing stainless and duplex alloys is accelerating rapidly. A few examples:
Our objective is to make our flat-rolled business more profitable and less cyclical than in the past. To that end, we are picking and choosing those markets and products where we make money, and spreading our market risk around the world. We are uniquely positioned in this global market, because we can offer capacity constrained or limited products that others don't make.
 
Some highlights of our Flat-Rolled Products segment international efforts:
 
Turning to our Engineered Products segment
Third quarter 2006 margins from our Engineered Products segment were at 12% of sales, but we have opportunities to do better.
High costs for the raw material APT, or ammonium paratungstate, in our tungsten products business have been holding down operating profitability. We began an expansion project to triple capacity at our APT plant in Huntsville, AL late last year and expect to be fully integrated in this raw material by the end of 2006. We will no longer be dependent on the high and volatile cost of Chinese APT after this year.
In addition, Rome Metals, our precision metals processing company, is having another growth year. This unit is very unique, and does high-end processing operations on titanium, zirconium and other metals. We are further investing in this business to capitalize on its many growth opportunities and to expand its capacities for the aerospace business.
Here are my takeaways from our third quarter results and market updates:
At this point we will open the call for questions...Operator please open the lines.
 
Q&A Portion of Conference Call
Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
PAT HASSEY:
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. And thanks to all the listeners for joining us this afternoon. As always, news releases may be obtained by email and are available on our website, www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Also a rebroadcast of this conference call is available on our website. That concludes our conference call.


