FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20070425132328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 25, 2007, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its first quarter 2007 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) the other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 25, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
DAN GREENFIELD:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Allegheny Technologies' earnings conference call for the first quarter 2007.
This conference call is being broadcast live on our website at alleghenytechnologies.com and on CCBN.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the conference call today are Pat Hassey, chairman, president and chief executive officer, and Rich Harshman, executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. Please note that all forward-looking statements made this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially. Here is Pat Hassey.
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thanks, Dan, and thanks, everyone... for joining us today.
We are off to a good start in 2007 with another quarter of double digit sales and earnings growth. First quarter sales increased 32% compared to the first quarter 2006 and net income increased 86% to nearly $198 million, or $1.92 per share
ATI achieved record total segment operating profit of nearly 25% of sales. I am pleased to report that we are continuing to deliver on our goal to significantly grow the profitability of ATI. This is a part of what we mean by , and it results from our ongoing focus on:
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
TM
We remained focused on reducing costs in the first quarter 2007 with gross cost reductions totaling nearly $28 million. That puts us on track to at least meet our full year 2007 gross cost reduction goal of $100 million.
Financial metrics were solid:
 
Cash on hand reached to $518 million:
We plan to spend $450 to $500 million in 2007 for capital projects that support our growth objectives, and/or reduce our costs. These investments include new titanium sponge capacity, new titanium and nickel-based alloy melt capacity, and new plate capacity. These capital projects are self-funded.
ATI's strategic capital projects remain on track and are expected to contribute significant growth with very good returns beginning in the second half 2007 and beyond.
 
As you can see, we continue to build on a foundation for further profitable growth. In 2006, ATI shipped 31 million pounds of titanium mill products. This year, we expect titanium alloy shipments under long-term agreements to increase over the course of the year. We are on track to achieve growth of 25% in titanium mill product shipments in 2007.
Turning to our segment performance: In our High Performance Metals segment, most end markets were strong in the first quarter.
Shipments of our titanium products grew by 11% compared to the first quarter 2006, but were down 7% compared to the robust fourth quarter last year. However, first quarter 2007 shipments of our titanium mill products to airframe customers far exceeded our original expectations, while shipments of standard grade titanium bar products were lower in the first quarter due to inventory corrections by distributors, especially for medical applications.
Comparing the first quarter 2007 to the first quarter 2006:
 
We expect markets for our High Performance Metals segment products to remain strong. Commercial aircraft build rates are planned to be higher in 2008 than in 2007. As a reminder, our titanium mill product shipments lead the build rate by approximately one year. Large new aircraft, such as Boeing's 777 and the new 787 and the Airbus A380 use considerably more titanium than older model aircraft. We have not yet seen the impact of the coming ramp up of the newest models, such as the Boeing 787 and the Airbus A380. As an important point, our schedules begin to reflect increasing demand from these new aircraft beginning in the second half 2007.
In addition, some of our jet engine customers discussed the strength of the spare parts business during their recent earnings conference calls. These jet engine customers have said they expect their spare parts demand to grow by over 30% this year. Of course, this is very good for ATI as it results in increasing demand for our premium titanium alloys and nickel-based superalloys.
Factors driving the jet engine spare parts demand include:
So, more engines from (1) the Boeing and Airbus build rates, plus (2) higher utilization rates and (3) a growing, global fleet, lead to greater demand for our premium alloys for new jet engines, as well as, increasing demand for jet engine spare parts.
With the improving aircraft build rates and greater demand for jet engine spare parts, we expect to see shipments, revenue, and margin dollars grow in our titanium and nickel-based alloy business throughout the remainder of 2007 and forward.
 
In our exotic alloys business, demand is very strong, schedules are extended, and our order book is at an all-time high. The chemical process industry and aerospace and defense markets are strong. A new dynamic in the market: demand from the nuclear electrical energy market picked up sooner and faster than expected. We are seeing considerable demand for our zirconium and hafnium alloys for nuclear energy refueling and refurbishment projects. We expect demand to get stronger in the future as new nuclear energy construction begins. Therefore, we are putting a new emphasis on operational execution along with planned capital expansion to increase available capacity for our zirconium and hafnium products.
Turning to the Flat-Rolled Products segment  our strategy of redirecting the business to high-value and differentiated specialty metals is paying off. First quarter 2007 operating profit was a record $160 million and a record 20.4% of sales. This was accomplished with shipments of our commodity stainless sheet at a much lower level as a result of inventory management actions at many of our U.S. service center customers.
Key growth markets in our Flat-Rolled Products segment remain strong:
 
Turning to commodity stainless sheet, we believe our service center customers have made noticeable gains in reducing their levels of inventory. Most customers report that end-user demand is strong. Yet, the service centers are ordering only what is needed due to record high raw material surcharges, primarily for nickel.
Our customers experienced dramatically higher nickel surcharges during the first quarter 2007. As a result, we continue to assist customers in switching to lower nickel-bearing alloys, a process that has changed our product mix and continues to gain momentum.
 
Moving to our Engineered Products segment, most markets remained strong in the first quarter:
In summary, here are my takeaways:
 
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of Conference Call
Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
PAT HASSEY:
DAN GREENFIELD:
Thank you, Pat. And thanks to all the listeners for joining us this afternoon. As always, news releases may be obtained by email and are available on our website, www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Also a rebroadcast of this conference call is available on our website. That concludes our conference call.


