FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20071024132523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(412) 394-2800
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 24, 2007, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its third quarter 2007 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 24, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
DAN GREENFIELD:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Allegheny Technologies' earnings conference call for the third quarter 2007.
This conference call is being broadcast live on our website at alleghenytechnologies.com and on CCBN.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the conference call today are Pat Hassey, chairman, president and chief executive officer, and Rich Harshman, executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements made this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thanks, Dan, and thanks, everyone for joining us today.
Our third quarter results had two divergent story lines:
Segment operating profit in the third quarter remained over 24% of sales. A reduction in our LIFO inventory reserve offset most of the impact of lower raw material surcharges and indices. This resulted from rapidly falling nickel prices, as well as titanium scrap prices.
Year-to-date 2007 operating profit as a percent of sales in our two largest segments was within our stated target range:
 
We remained focused on our performance and execution, resulting in year-to-date gross cost reductions totaling $82 million. We are on our way to exceeding our full year 2007 gross cost reduction goal of $100 million.
Other important financial measures remained solid:
Cash flow from operations for the first nine months was $481 million even with:
In addition, year-to-date capital expenditures totaled $281 million. Cash on hand was $664 million at the end of the third quarter.
We are investing about $450 million for capital projects in 2007. This capital supports our growth objectives and reduces our costs. These capital projects are all self-funded.
 
So, we continue to build for the future. We see growth in demand for our high-value products from our key growth markets which now are 70% of ATI sales.
During the last few months, our operating companies have added several long-term agreements with customers from the global aerospace, chemical process industry, oil and gas, electrical energy, and medical markets. We expect total revenue from these agreements to total approximately $1 billion during the timeframe of the agreements, which generally ranges from 2 years to 5 years.
 
These agreements include our titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, vacuum-melted specialty alloys, and our grain-oriented silicon electrical product. We are working on additional LTAs to better position ATI for the future ... so, more to come.
Our key global growth markets are strong. ATI direct sales outside the United States reached nearly 26% of total sales during the first nine months 2007. We believe this number would at least double if it included export sales of products made by our US customers. In other words, we think global markets are driving at least one-half of ATI sales. The strong infrastructure build going on around the world coupled with the value of the dollar puts ATI, with our broad range of specialty metals, in a great position.
Last week, we met in Pittsburgh with the leaders of our global sales and marketing team. They continue to report strong demand for our products, particularly in China and Korea. This demand is being driven in Asia by a variety of markets, including power generation, oil and gas (especially LNG), chemical processing, and shipbuilding.
The first nine months 2007 has been the best in our history. We expect full-year 2007 earnings per share to be in the range of $7.00 to $7.25, because the fourth quarter is not as strong as we previously explained in recent guidance. The full year still represents a 25% to 29% growth in earnings per share compared to 2006.
 
Now let's deal with the two major questions about ATI:
First, the question of our ability to sustain, over the long term, the level of profitability achieved so far this year in our Flat-Rolled Products segment.
 
 
The other major question is Boeing's recent announcement that the first flight and first delivery of the 787 Dreamliner is delayed.
So, what does this mean to ATI? As Boeing publicly said, they plan to deliver 109 Dreamliners by the end of 2009. This is three fewer than previously planned. Our titanium shipments lead the airplane build schedule by roughly 6 to 12 months. So, Boeing's 2009 build and delivery schedule involves ATI's 2008 shipment schedule. Boeing has confirmed that they plan to continue to order their forecasted amount of titanium from ATI in 2008. This is expected to be higher than in 2007. We are pleased with our position on the 787 and our growing relationship with the Boeing Corporation.
 
As we look ahead, our long-term profitable growth outlook remains intact. We believe ATI is well-positioned to achieve strong earnings growth in 2008 and beyond.
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of Conference Call
PAT HASSEY:
Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. And thanks to all the listeners for joining us this afternoon. As always, news releases may be obtained by email and are available on our website, www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Also a rebroadcast of this conference call is available on our website. That concludes our conference call.


