FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20070124132838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 24, 2007, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its fourth quarter 2006 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) the other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
         Exhibit 99.1  Script for Allegheny Technologies Incorporated fourth quarter 2006 earnings conference call.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
DAN GREENFIELD:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Allegheny Technologies' earnings conference call for the fourth quarter and full year 2006.
This conference call is being broadcast live on our website at alleghenytechnologies.com and on CCBN.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the conference call today are Pat Hassey, chairman, president and chief executive officer, and Rich Harshman, executive vice president, finance and chief financial officer.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. Please note that all forward-looking statements made this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially. Here is Pat Hassey.
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thanks, Dan, and thanks, everyone... for joining us today.
Our strategic goal for 2006 was Profitable Growth.
I am pleased to report that we delivered on that goal.
2006 was a great year for ATI:
These results were achieved even with a LIFO inventory valuation reserve charge of $197 million. Said in another way, without LIFO, our segment operating profit would be 20% highermore reflective of future earning power.
To give some perspective on ATI's growth...sales in 2003 were $1.9 billion; in 2004 $2.7 billion, and in 2005 $3.5 billion. Add another 40%, and ATI's 2006 sales of $4.9 billion reached another growth milestone. We believe ATI continues to be well positioned for sustained profitable growth.
 
In 2006, we generated strong cash flow to support our self-funded growth strategies:
Two important financial metrics used to measure our performance were outstanding for 2006:
While 2006 was a record year, we believe we are still in the early stages of growth. We continue to build a foundation for further profitable growth:
 
My comments during today's conference call are focused on two important drivers:
2. Our markets and products.
First, let's review recently announced capital projects and long-term agreements. In October 2006, we signed an LTA with Boeing, valued at approximately $2.5 billion over the next 9 years. Under this LTA we provide titanium products for the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, and other Boeing aircraft. A significant portion of this contract is for the supply of titanium plate.
On January 17, 2007, we announced a $60 million investment to expand our titanium and specialty plate facility in Washington, PA. This investment helps to illustrate the transformation of ATI and the direction in which we are going. The plate business has traditionally been a stainless business with some specialty metals.
Today, this is a Specialty Plate business with high-value products, (including titanium), driving nearly 75% of total plate sales. These sales are to the chemical process, oil and gas, electrical energy, defense, and now the airframe markets.
The expansion at our plate facility is an enabling strategy. It allows us to continue to grow our existing Specialty Plate business plus grow in the airframe market.
 
On January 22, we announced a long-term sourcing agreement with GE Aviation valued at approximately $2 billion over the next five years. This agreement calls for the supply of our premium titanium alloys and nickel-based-superalloys used for commercial and military jet engines. ATI has been a preferred supplier to GE Aviation for many years. Because of this unprecedented aerospace cycle, we both decided that a longer term agreement is in the best interest of both companies. We value our partnering relationship with GE Aviation and expect it to continue to grow in the future.
Yesterday, we announced a further expansion of our premium titanium and nickel-based superalloy melting and forging capabilities. The total cost of this 3-year capital project is approximately $215 million.
This strategic growth project further strengthens ATI's leadership position in the production of technically demanding premium titanium and nickel-based superalloy long products. This investment at Allvac enhances our ability to meet our customers' current and future technical requirements and creates a new and broader platform or capability for further innovation.
As you can see, we are staying in front of this aerospace cycle. In addition, these investments also support further growth in other key markets.
Bottom line, ATI is truly investing and .
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
 
Now, some comments on ATI's markets and products.
While most of our focus for the conference call today is on the full year 2006 and our strategic outlook, I will highlight some accomplishments from the fourth quarter 2006:
On another note, our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan is essentially fully funded as of the end of 2006. As a result, retirement benefit expense is expected to decline by $50 million in 2007. ($32 million vs. $82 million in 2006.)
This is significant because the pension's funded status previously had a significant negative impact on our balance sheet. Getting our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan to fully funded status was a key goal of our three-year plan to fix the balance sheet.
 
Now, looking forward, we currently have good visibility of the demand for our products from most of our markets.
In the High Performance Metals segment, the aerospace and defense, chemical process, oil and gas, electrical energy, and medical markets all look strong with commercial aero-engine and airframe ramping further.
In the Flat-Rolled Products segment:
 
In the Engineered Products segment:
Summarizing 
Here are my takeaways:
Operator, may we have the first question, please .
 
 
Q&A Portion of Conference Call
Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
PAT HASSEY:
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. And thanks to all the listeners for joining us this afternoon. As always, news releases may be obtained by email and are available on our website, www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Also a rebroadcast of this conference call is available on our website. That concludes our conference call.


