FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20070725132652.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On July 25, 2007, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its second quarter 2007 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
          Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) our ability to replace existing credit arrangements on the terms or timing anticipated; and (h) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
          The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 25, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
DAN GREENFIELD:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Allegheny Technologies' earnings conference call for the second quarter 2007.
This conference call is being broadcast live on our website at alleghenytechnologies.com and on CCBN.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the conference call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements made this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially. Here is Pat Hassey.
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thanks, Dan, and thanks, everyone... for joining us today.
ATI's diversified global markets, broad product offerings, and operational execution delivered another quarter of profitable growth in sales and earnings. Sales increased nearly 22% compared to the second quarter 2006, and net income increased 43% to $2.00 per share. Segment operating profit was over 24% of sales.
We remained focused on our performance and execution, resulting in first-half gross cost reductions totaling $54 million. That puts us on track to meet or exceed our full year 2007 gross cost reduction goal of $100 million.
Financial metrics were solid:
 
Cash flow from operations during the first half was $187 million even with:
In addition, year-to-date capital expenditures totaled $152 million. Cash on hand was $530 million at the end of the second quarter.
We plan to invest about $450 million in 2007 for capital projects that support our growth objectives, and reduce our costs. These investments include new titanium sponge capacity, new titanium and nickel-based alloy melt capacity, new plate capacity, and improved rolling capabilities in flat-rolled products. These capital projects are all self-funded.
To further strengthen our balance sheet, we are in the process of replacing our existing $325 million secured domestic revolving credit facility with a new $400 million unsecured domestic revolving credit facility. We are pleased that this new credit facility has been extremely well received by our bank group, and the new facility should be in place by the end of July. The new credit facility provides ATI with reduced letter of credit and borrowing rates, and removes an impediment to ATI regaining an investment grade corporate credit rating.
 
Turning to our Markets:
ATI's key growth markets remain strong. Over 63% of year-to-date sales were generated by the aerospace and defense, chemical process industry, oil and gas, and electrical energy markets.
 
Here is more detail on ATI's largest market: aerospace and defense. We think we have good visibility into the demand from the aerospace market, and we believe ATI is very well positioned to benefit from exciting growth prospects from the aerospace and defense market for many years. Two events occurred recently that reinforce this outlook:
We are optimistic about this aerospace cycle, this industry, and particularly ATI and our potential for growth in airframe and jet engines.
 
While on the subject of aerospace growth, ATI's strategic capital projects remain on track and are expected to contribute significant profitable growth.
We saw the benefits of our strategic growth initiatives as total shipments of ATI's titanium products were 8.8 million pounds in the second quarter, nearly 14% higher than the second quarter 2006 and 2% higher than the first quarter 2007. This includes titanium product shipments by both our High Performance Metals and Flat-Rolled Products segments.
In addition, shipments from our Uniti Titanium joint venture were strong during the second quarter. Uniti supplies the global industrial markets, specifically excluding the aerospace and defense, and medical markets. As a reminder, ATI converts semi-finished titanium products into titanium mill products for Uniti. Shipments of conversion titanium are not included in our reported shipment numbers. ATI converted well over one million pounds of titanium mill products for Uniti in the second quarter 2007. So, all together, ATI shipped 10 million pounds of titanium mill products in the second quarter.
 
Turning to our individual segment performance, first, High Performance Metals: Sales were $558 million and operating profit was over 32% of sales. Segment operating profit of $180 million was near our record level of $182 million. Segment operating profit as a percentage of sales was down a few basis points from the previous quarter primarily from a product mix which contained more of our nickel-based alloys and specialty alloys.
Sales of our premium titanium alloys and nickel-based superalloys remained strong to jet engine customers for both OEM applications and spare parts. The aftermarket spare parts business at our jet engine customers is growing due to replacement of jet engine rotating parts made from premium titanium alloys and nickel-based superalloys. This results from the total number of airplanes in the sky that are flying and the high utilization of aircraft.
On the airframe side, sales of our titanium alloys to airframe customers continued to grow with second quarter shipment volumes 43% higher than the first quarter 2007.
Our exotic alloys shipments grew by nearly 40% compared to last year's second quarter with increasing demand from the chemical process industry and the nuclear electrical energy markets.
 
During each quarter's conference call, I like to emphasize one area of our business. Today I will highlight the success of our Flat-Rolled Products segment.
Our Flat-Rolled Products segment has been transformed into a highly profitable diversified specialty metals business. Second quarter 2007 sales were approximately $805 million and operating profit reached a record $166 million, or nearly 21% of sales, even while total shipments were comparatively low. Reflect on that. For those who have covered this company for several years ask yourself, "How much would the flat-rolled business have made in such an environment 4 years ago?"
Here are some points to consider about the transformation of our Flat-Rolled Products segment:
 
In addition, substitution to lower nickel-bearing alloys continued to accelerate during the second quarter.
Raw material prices, particularly nickel, have indeed been volatile. As the second quarter ended, nickel prices on the LME began what we think is a long-overdue correction. As we have been saying since the run up in nickel began last year, there has never been a shortage of nickel units. We believe the price of nickel is correcting more as a result of LME trading dynamics, and less influenced by any pull back on consumption of stainless steel. At today's LME cash price of $14.50, nickel still remains very high by any historical comparison. This is indicative of a market still demanding high levels of usage.
Many direct customers and distributors have been waiting for nickel to stabilize, thus they purchase only what is necessary. Some customers have pushed out, but not cancelled, projects. Inventory levels at our direct customers and inventory levels at our service center customers are low and should be getting tighter in the next few months. Importantly, according to published information, most global stainless steel producers seem to be demonstrating self-discipline by reducing production and not building inventory.
So, we expect key growth markets in our Flat-Rolled Products segment to remain strong in 2007, and we also expect orders and shipments of stainless to improve once the price of nickel stabilizes.
 
Moving to our Engineered Products segment, operating performance continued to be lower than the level we expect:
 
In conclusion, the first half 2007 has been the best in our history. First half 2007 earnings per share was $3.93. That is 60% higher than the first half 2006.
As we look ahead, we expect ATI's overall performance in the second half 2007 to be at least as good as that achieved in the first half 2007, with fourth quarter earnings stronger than the third quarter.
We expect ATI's third quarter earnings to reflect higher costs of approximately $0.07 to $0.09 per share associated with our scheduled normal summer major maintenance outages, and the recently adopted new accounting standard for these costs to be fully absorbed in the quarter in which they occur.
The second half outlook could be impacted by continued volatility in raw material costs...nickel needs to stabilize.
In summary, here are my takeaways:
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of Conference Call
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. And thanks to all the listeners for joining us this afternoon. As always, news releases may be obtained by email and are available on our website, www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Also a rebroadcast of this conference call is available on our website. That concludes our conference call.


