FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20071207165820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
December 6, 2007          
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(412) 394-2800          
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On December 6, 2007, J. Brett Harvey was elected to the Board of Directors of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") as a Class III director, effective immediately, in connection with the Board increasing the number of directors constituting the Board from ten to eleven. Effective as of the same date, the Board appointed Mr. Harvey to serve on the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board. Mr. Harvey will stand for election at the Company's 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
(d) 
     Mr. Harvey is the President and Chief Executive Officer of CONSOL Energy Inc. ("CONSOL"), a high-Btu bituminous coal and coal bed methane company. The Board has determined that Mr. Harvey is an independent director under applicable New York Stock Exchange listing requirements and the Company's categorical Board independence standards, which are set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
     As a non-employee director of the Board, Mr. Harvey will receive the standard compensation paid to other non-employee directors for service on the Board and pro rata compensation for his service as a director in 2007, which includes 67 shares of restricted stock granted to Mr. Harvey on December 6, 2007 upon his election to the Board.
     There were no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Harvey and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Harvey was elected as a director, and there are and have been no transactions since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year, or currently proposed, regarding Mr. Harvey that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
     The Company issued a press release on December 6, 2007 to announce the election of Mr. Harvey to the Board. The press release is set forth in its entirety and attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d)
Exhibits.
          Exhibit 99.1           Press release dated December 6, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 7, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Dan L. Greenfield 412- 394-3004
Pittsburgh, PA, December 6, 2007  Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) announced today that J. Brett Harvey has been elected to the Company's Board of Directors. His election increases the number of directors to eleven. Mr. Harvey, 57, is President and Chief Executive Officer of CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE: CNX), a high-Btu bituminous coal and coal bed methane company.
"We are very pleased that Brett Harvey has joined our Board," said Pat Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Allegheny Technologies. "His extensive business experience and perspective should prove valuable to the Company and the Board."
Mr. Harvey has been President and Chief Executive Officer of CONSOL Energy Inc. since 1998. Prior to that, he served as president and chief executive officer of PacifiCorp Energy Inc., and in several other management positions at PacifiCorp, including president and chief executive officer of Interwest Mining Company. Mr. Harvey is also currently a director of CONSOL Energy Inc., CNX Gas Corporation and Barrick Gold Corporation.
Mr. Harvey has been appointed to the Nominating and Governance Committee, and will stand for election at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (ATI) is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of $5.6 billion during the most recent four quarters ending September 30, 2007. ATI has approximately 9,500 full-time employees world-wide who develop and apply innovative technologies to provide global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, chemical process industry/oil and gas, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, stainless and specialty alloys, zirconium, hafnium, and niobium, tungsten materials, grain-oriented silicon electrical products, and forgings and castings. The Allegheny Technologies website is .
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
www.AlleghenyTechnologies.com


