FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20080723133235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On July 23, 2008, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its second quarter 2008 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
DAN GREENFIELD:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Allegheny Technologies' earnings conference call for the second quarter 2008.
This conference call is being broadcast live on our website at alleghenytechnologies.com and on CCBN.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the conference call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements made this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thanks, Dan, and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
The second quarter demonstrates our ability to deliver good returns during an uncertain time. ATI is benefiting from our ongoing transformation, and our product, market, and geographic diversification.
Our key financial metrics represent outstanding financial performance for any industrial company:
We had $310 million of cash on hand at the end of the second quarter after we invested over $500 million in the business during the first half 2008. This includes a:
As we have stated, we have a balanced view of our use of cash. Our primary focus continues to be: investing for sustainable long-term profitable growth while maintaining a strong balance sheet. We are also focused on creating value for our shareholders through our dividend policy and our share repurchase program.
 
Gross cost reductions totaled $69 million for the first half as we remained focused on reducing costs through systematically improving operating efficiencies, along with benefiting from our new equipment. We are running ahead of our $100 million cost reduction goal for the year.
Segment operating profit was a solid 18.7% of second quarter revenues:
 
 
 
We continue our capital investments to give us state-of-the art manufacturing capabilities. These investments enable sustainable long-term profitable growth, and build new capabilities for our diversified products in diversified global markets.
 
Updating our view of the markets:
Aerospace and defense, and the infrastructure markets, namely chemical process industry, oil and gas and electrical energy, plus the medical market have been driving our performance. We believe these markets are in a period of sustained long-term growth. These markets accounted for nearly 70% of sales in the first half 2008. So far in 2008, we have signed long-term agreements in these same markets that have the potential to deliver over $1.3 billion in revenue to ATI over the life of the LTAs, which is generally 3 to 5 years. And, we are working on several additional LTAs.
Aerospace and Defense accounted for 27% of first half 2008 sales  down slightly from last year due to declines in average selling prices.
 
Chemical Process Industry /Oil and Gas accounted for 24% of first half 2008 sales.
 
Electrical Energy accounted for 15% of first half 2008 sales.
A final comment on our markets: direct international sales were 27% of ATI sales during the first half. Strong demand continues. For example, ATI Asia set a new order entry record for the fist six months. This demonstrates what we mean by global infrastructure growth and our product, market and geographic diversification. Here are some examples of key orders:
All are global infrastructure projects where economies continue to grow at double digits.
 
Aerospace and defense and infrastructure continue to drive our results, and we believe these markets are in a period of long-term growth. Our strategy is to deliver earnings stability and growth as we move through this extended cycle.
Growth in demand from commercial aerospace is slowing as the supply chain adapts to revised schedules for the new airplane programs. Airplane backlogs are at record levels and are growing. We are taking action to grow ATI's overall presence in this market through the introduction of the ATI Aerospace and ATI Defense market sector teams.
Demand from the global infrastructure markets is strong, and we expect this trend to continue. To grow our presence in the oil and gas market, we are introducing the ATI Oil & Gas market sector team next month.
We continue to seek out new markets and new applications for our uniquely diversified product offerings. The world is a big place. We have good coverage through our internationally located selling arms  ATI Asia, ATI Europe, our joint venture in China with Baosteel, and our Uniti titanium joint venture with VSMPO-AVISMA.
Looking forward, in the near term, we expect a normal third quarter seasonal slowdown. We believe we are well-positioned to continue to achieve good performance in this uncertain US economy due to our product and market diversification and our global reach. At this point, we expect full-year 2008 earnings per share to be in the range of $5.80 to $6.10.
This would be the second best year in ATI's history. We expect return on capital to range from 20% to 21%; and return on stockholders equity to range from 24% to 25%. We expect strong cash flow in the second half 2008.
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of Conference Call
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. And thanks to all the listeners for joining us this afternoon. As always, news releases may be obtained by email and are available on our website, www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Also a rebroadcast of this conference call is available on our website. That concludes our conference call.


