FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20080423134059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 23, 2008, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its first quarter 2008 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
  (d) Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1     Script for Allegheny Technologies Incorporated first quarter 2008 earnings conference call.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 23, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Allegheny Technologies' earnings conference call for the first quarter 2008.
DAN GREENFIELD:
This conference call is being broadcast live on our website at alleghenytechnologies.com and on CCBN.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the conference call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements made this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thanks, Dan, and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
We said the first quarter 2008 would be similar to our fourth quarter 2007 performance...and it was.
We also expected first quarter results to be negatively impacted by raw material costs being higher than the indices and surcharges used to determine selling prices...This is a timing issue. And, it did indeed impact our first quarter results, both in the High Performance Metals in and Flat-Rolled Products.
Here is our view:
 
 
Considering the uncertainties in the U.S. economy and in the aerospace supply chain, first quarter results reflect positively on the strength of ATI earnings in what we consider to be the bottom of the current market:
 
Let's move to our aerospace business.
 
The recently revised schedule for the 787 Dreamliner brings near-term uncertainty to the supply chain. Boeing has told us that they intend to honor our supply agreement. Remember, our titanium products can be used on every Boeing airframe.
 
Our Flat-Rolled Products segment has a lot of upside potential. Let's review:
 
 
We continue our investments to give us unsurpassed manufacturing capabilities. These investments enable profitable growth, and build new capabilities for our diversified products in diversified global markets.
We are launching new production facilities in 2008. These facilities build on our foundation that gives ATI the most advanced technology in our industry. We are building the right equipment and the right technology to maintain our leadership position in advanced specialty metals.
 
Our key growth markets  Aerospace and Defense, Chemical Process Industry, Oil & Gas, Electrical Energy, and Medical  remain solid. These markets represent 70% of our sales:
We believe the first quarter 2008 earnings represent the bottom. $1.40 EPS in the first quarter demonstrates ATI's ability to achieve stable earnings under difficult conditions. Looking forward:
We expect second quarter earnings to be somewhat higher than first quarter results. And, we expect to do better going forward.
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of Conference Call
 
Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
PAT HASSEY:
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. And thanks to all the listeners for joining us this afternoon. As always, news releases may be obtained by email and are available on our website, www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Also a rebroadcast of this conference call is available on our website. That concludes our conference call.


