FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20081022133749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(412) 394-2800     
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 22, 2008, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its third quarter 2008 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including credit market conditions and related issues, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 22, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Allegheny Technologies' earnings conference call for the third quarter 2008.
DAN GREENFIELD:
This conference call is being broadcast live on our website at alleghenytechnologies.com and on CCBN.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the conference call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements made this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thanks, Dan, and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
We had a solid quarter in a period of uncertainty. We demonstrated strong cash flow. We have a solid balance sheet.
 
Let's get right into our view of the markets:
Some of our markets are strong while others are weak due to credit issues and a slowing global economy. And, there is short-term uncertainty in the aerospace supply chain.
Aerospace and Defense accounted for 28% of year-to-date 2008 sales.
 
 
Chemical Process Industry/ Oil and Gas accounted for 23% of year-to-date 2008 sales.
 
Electrical Energy accounted for 16% of year-to-date 2008 sales.
 
Direct international sales were a record $400 million, or 29% of sales in the third quarter 2008.
Our strategy is to continue to diversify and differentiate ATI in key global markets.
Aerospace and defense plus the infrastructure markets and the medical market have been driving ATI's performance. These markets accounted for 70% of sales in the nine months 2008. We continue to believe in the long-term growth prospects of these markets.
An interesting point before we move on from our markets  ATI sales in 2008 have remained stable even while raw materials indices and surcharges have decreased significantly. We have focused on profitable growth through penetration of:
In other words, our operating companies and market sector teams have successfully found customers for our specialty metals.
 
We continued to make progress on our capital investments which better position ATI for long-term growth.
ATI has grown and been transformed without the use of leverage. We deploy our strong cash flow with a balanced approach to create long-term value for our shareholders. We are committed to this philosophy and can adjust the timing of our self-funded capital projects accordingly.
 
Turning to our Fourth Quarter Outlook:
Of note, even though demand for our stainless products is weak, our Flat-Rolled Products segment was nicely profitable in the third quarter 2008, and we expect this segment to be nicely profitable going forward. This segment continues to benefit from an ongoing transformation. Product, market, geographic diversification and costs have been greatly improved.
 
Let me summarize:
 
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of Conference Call
DAN GREENFIELD:
Thank you, Pat. And thanks to all the listeners for joining us this afternoon. As always, news releases may be obtained by email and are available on our website, www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Also a rebroadcast of this conference call is available on our website. That concludes our conference call.


