FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20090908162617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01     Other Events.
On September 8, 2009, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the Company) issued a press release with respect to its long-term sourcing agreement with Rolls-Royce plc for the supply of nickel-based superalloy disc-quality products for commercial jet engine applications.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)       Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1  Press release dated September 8, 2009.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Allegheny Technologies Announces New Long-Term Agreement
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--September 8, 2009--Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) announced that it has signed a ten-year sourcing agreement with Rolls-Royce plc for the supply of nickel-based superalloy disc-quality products for commercial jet engine applications. The agreement covers products sold by ATI Allvac, an ATI operating company, to the customers first tier suppliers (forgers). Potential revenue is estimated to be between $750 million and $1 billion.
We are pleased to be developing a long-term strategic relationship with this important customer to supply the critical metallics needed for aeroengine disc-quality products, said L. Patrick Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Allegheny Technologies. ATI has consistently invested in unsurpassed manufacturing capabilities to position ATI as the premier specialty metals company. In addition, ATI brings new products with unsurpassed quality and support systems to continue to benefit the customer and its supply chain. Our new titanium and superalloy forging facility located in Bakers, NC is being completed in 2009. This facility should enable ATI to achieve ever higher standards to meet the demanding fuel efficiency requirements of the jet engine market.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in this news release relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, would, should, will, will likely result, forecast, outlook, projects, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including credit market conditions and related issues, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Building the Worlds Best Specialty Metals Company
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of $5.3 billion during 2008. ATI has approximately 8,700 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, chemical process industry/oil and gas, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, and niobium, tungsten materials, and forgings and castings. The Allegheny Technologies website is .
www.alleghenytechnologies.com
CONTACT: Allegheny Technologies Incorporated Dan L. Greenfield, 412-394-3004


