FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20090128103528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 28, 2009, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the Company) announced that L. Patrick Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will speak at the 30 Annual Cowen and Company Aerospace/ Defense Conference in New York, NY on Wednesday, February 4, 2009.  Mr. Hasseys remarks and presentation slides will be available live at 11:55 a.m. (ET) on Wednesday, February 4, 2009 on the Company's website under the Investors tab.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
th
www.alleghenytechnologies.com
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Allegheny Technologies CEO Pat Hassey to Speak at Cowen and Company Aerospace Conference
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 28, 2009--Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) announced that L. Patrick Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will speak at the 30 Annual Cowen and Company Aerospace/Defense Conference in New York, NY on February 4, 2009. Mr. Hasseys remarks and presentation slides will be available live at 11:55 a.m. (ET) on Wednesday, February 4, 2009, on ATIs website under the Investors tab.
th
www.alleghenytechnologies.com
This presentation may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements may relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, would, should, will, will likely result, forecast, outlook, projects, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on managements current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including credit market conditions and related issues, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Building the Worlds Best Specialty Metals Company
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of $5.3 billion during 2008. ATI has approximately 9,600 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer growing global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, chemical process industry/oil and gas, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, and niobium, tungsten materials, and forgings and castings. The Allegheny Technologies website is .
www.alleghenytechnologies.com
CONTACT: Allegheny Technologies Incorporated Dan L. Greenfield, 412-394-3004


