FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20091021133043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (
412) 394-2800
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On October 21, 2009, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its third quarter 2009 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including credit market conditions and related issues, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical, automotive, construction and mining, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies earnings conference call for the third quarter 2009.
This conference call is being broadcast on our website at www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
All references to net income and earnings in this conference call mean net income and earnings "attributable to ATI common stockholders".
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
Pat Hassey:
Thanks, Dan. And thank you to everyone listening on today's call.
Our markets are showing signs of improvement and the worst appears to be behind us. We are seeing some positive data points in some markets, yet in the short term, our customers continue to be cautious and most are keeping their inventories low.
Looking at, and comparing our third quarter performance to a more normal period, we like ATI's upside potential when our markets recover and our shipment volumes improve. In the third quarter, we were EPS positive and earned segment operating profit of $54 million. This was accomplished under difficult circumstances:
These amounts are all pre-tax.
 
We ended the quarter with $826 million of cash on hand. We continue to self-fund our capital investments. And our balance sheet remains solid giving us financial flexibility.
We remain focused on continuing to improve our cost structure. Gross cost reductions in the first nine months of 2009 were over $121 million. We expect to exceed our 2009 cost reduction target of $150 million and expect 2009 cost reductions to be the highest in ATI's history.
Our strategic focus on high-value products continues. Year-to-date sales of our high-value products were over 79% of total 2009 sales.
Turning to our markets 
75% of 2009 sales through the third quarter were to our core, global markets. We remain confident in the intermediate and long-term growth potential of these global markets:
 
Today, ATI is more globally-focused than at any time in our history. Direct international sales reached nearly 31% of sales through the third quarter of 2009. For comparison, direct international sales were 28% of total sales for the full year 2008. We expect this trend to continue as a result of our focused sales and marketing efforts, which we expect to be further aided by the weaker dollar in 2010.
Turning to the business segments 
In the High-Performance Metals segment:
 
In Flat-Rolled Products:
Third quarter 2009 shipments of our high-value flat-rolled products increased 8% compared to the second quarter 2009. Some highlights:
 
Stainless steel demand appears to be in an early stage of recovery. Third quarter shipments of our standard sheet and plate products increased 7% to of 63,000 tons. While still low, this represents the best quarterly shipments of 2009. Third quarter shipments annualized at 250,000 tons is still well below our target of 300,000 to 350,000 tons per year.
ATI Allegheny Ludlum successfully implemented base-price increases in May, June, and September on standard stainless coil products.
Industry data released last week indicates that service center inventories of stainless products remained near low levels in September at a seasonally adjusted rate of 2.6 months. Many of our service center customers tell us that they continue to keep their inventories at low levels in order to avoid raw material risk and to conserve cash.
While Flat-Rolled Products segment shipments improved for many of our products, segment operating income was negatively impacted by a LIFO "catch-up" due to rising raw materials costs, primarily nickel. In the third quarter, we recorded a $6.8 million LIFO charge compared to a $26 million LIFO benefit in both the first and second quarters 2009.
 
In our Engineered Products segment:
Volumes remained at very depressed levels during the third quarter. We are beginning to see some modest improvement. Order entry in the past few weeks is up in most of these businesses. However, the wind energy market for our cast products is the exception with no improvement.
2009 has certainly been a challenging year. We have been dealing with the weakest global economic environment in over 70 years. ATI has remained modestly profitable in this environment, excluding special charges. We continued to make important strategic capital and R&D investments while strengthening our balance sheet. These accomplishments further differentiate us from our past, and from most of our global competitors.
 
We remain confident in the growth potential for our core global markets because the secular trends in these market sectors continue to be strong:
 
 
Great companies must have the vision and financial means to improve the company's position during economic downturns.
 
 
 
 
Now, my closing comment before we take questions.
We are seeing some positive data points in certain markets. Many customers remain cautious and are keeping their inventories low. This uncertainty is exaggerated by recent volatility in prices of raw materials, such as nickel.
Our third quarter orders in Asia were the highest of the year, nearly twice the dollar amount of the first half 2009. Many of the projects that had been delayed after the financial market collapse are now coming back on track. We plan to watch this trend closely over the next few quarters to see if we rebuild a significant backlog.
Europe is also getting better for ATI. We are seeing improving demand from the Oil & Gas market. But demand from the European aerospace market remains soft.
To be very clear, recovering volume and the resulting revenue are the necessary keys to significantly improved financial results for ATI.
 
Looking ahead into 2010, we expect operating performance to improve compared to 2009. We see 2010 as a transition year to the next growth cycle in most of our core markets.
We think we are taking the right actions now to make ATI a better company, and to be ready to meet our customers' needs when the markets recover. As a result, we expect to recover and grow faster than our core global markets.
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of the Conference Call
 
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. Thanks to all of the listeners for joining us today. That concludes our conference call.


