FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20090121132947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 21, 2009, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including credit market conditions and related issues, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
   (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 21, 2009
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
DAN GREENFIELD:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Allegheny Technologies' earnings conference call for the fourth quarter and full year 2008.
This conference call is being broadcast live on our website at alleghenytechnologies.com and on CCBN.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the conference call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements made this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
PAT HASSEY:
Thanks, Dan, and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
ATI earned $5.67 per share with revenues totaling $5.3 billion in 2008. It was the second best year for revenues and earnings per share in the Company's history. This was accomplished with global economic conditions turning down sharply in the fourth quarter, resulting in deteriorating demand in some key market segments for ATI.
Although ATI is not immune to the global downturn, our financial position remains strong. ATI has a strong balance sheet, a strong cash flow, good liquidity, and we expect to continue to generate significant cash flow, even with reduced earnings.
Our Financial metrics remained and are strong:
So, overall, we delivered a good year in 2008.
 
Now, getting right to our view of 2009:
The combination of three major events:
are expected to negatively impact ATI earnings in the first quarter of 2009.
These three events have already resulted in challenging conditions in some of our core markets.
We have limited short-term visibility, but will give a view of seeing through the "fog" of these current conditions by commenting on the plusses and the minuses for ATI as we see them today.
The first point to remember is that ATI has diversified end products, multiple alloys and product forms, and end-markets that have a global reach. 28% of our revenues came from outside the U.S. last year.
Secondly, we have long-term-agreements in place for our core markets and products  airframe, jet engines, industrial titanium, electrical generation and distribution, and medical  as well as other requirements contracts for project work that is continuing to completion in 2009.
 
Thirdly, as compared to the last downturn of 2001 through 2003, we are far better positioned with our core markets and products, have taken over $600 million in real costs out of our business, have a much more cost effective and flexible labor environment in which to operate, have installed and are continuing to invest in modern equipment and new capabilities, are entering new and profitable market segments globally, and have one of the strongest balance sheets and the most liquidity in our history.
All that said in 2009, ATI is being impacted by more competitive pricing as well as lower volumes for many of product lines, especially for our commodity stainless products. The low volume of stainless products has a direct influence in pacing our operations in our Flat-Rolled Products segment.
 
Moving to our major markets:
 
 
These markets  aerospace and defense, global infrastructure, and medical  accounted for over 70% of ATI sales in 2008. These are the markets that have been driving our performance for the last several years.
We await the results of the many economic stimulus packages being considered in the U.S. and other areas of the world. We expect these packages to increase spending on infrastructure, alternative energy, and energy efficiency. Therefore, we believe ATI's key growth markets could have additional potential over the intermediate term that we are not currently planning for, as I stated in my earlier comments of reduced shipments for 2009.
 
A note about our flat-rolled products business: In this difficult time, we are operating with about 80% of our workforce, depending on our weekly production schedules. From a glass-half empty/glass-half full standpoint, that means approximately 20% are temporarily on layoff at a given time. This is possible due to the transformation and flexibility of our flat-rolled products business that in scheduling, we can operate as efficiently as possible.
 
We have taken actions to adjust our production schedules to current demand, preserve cash and maintain our liquidity. We have targeted at least $150 million of new gross cost reductions for 2009. We are focused on improving inventory turns to generate additional cash from managed working capital, as well as further limit our exposure to volatile raw materials costs. And, again in 2009, we remain focused on continuing to improve our operations and overall cost structures during this downturn in business.
To help ensure that ATI remains solidly profitable in 2009, as well as become a stronger competitor and company, each of our businesses has further contingency plans in place that can be implemented, if current conditions decline. All businesses are targeted to:
 
On the raw material side of the business:
We saw an unprecedented drop in raw materials costs during the last three months of 2008. Some examples comparing the average price in September with the average price in December:
 
 
Now, moving to pension expense:
Pension expense will be the second headwind to earnings in 2009. Primarily as a result of the historic negative returns in the equity and fixed income markets in 2008, we expect 2009 pretax retirement benefit expense of approximately $140 million, or nearly $35 million per quarter. This expense includes approximately $119 million of pension expense and $21 million of other post retirement benefit (OPEB) expense. As a comparison, in 2008 we had pension income of $12 million and OPEB expense of $20 million. The 2009 pension expense is non-cash.
As of December 31, 2008, our U.S. defined benefit pension plan was approximately 83% funded compared with 111% funded at the end of 2007.
As a result of the challenging economy, the significantly higher pension expense, and the one time raw materials/surcharge mismatch in the first quarter, we expect first quarter results to be at, or near, breakeven.
 
We continued to make progress on our capital investments which are building ATI into a strong world competitor with unsurpassed manufacturing capabilities, positioned for long-term growth. We invested nearly $516 million in 2008, which brings total self-funded capital expenditures and asset acquisitions to $1.3 billion over the past 4 years.
We currently expect 2009 self-funded capital expenditures of $450 million. This is lower than our previous expectation for 2009 of up to $600 million as we are adjusting the timing of our projects in light of the challenging market environment. We are committed to self-fund these projects and can further adjust the timing of any project as appropriate to the business conditions.
 
These are extraordinary times... difficult, challenging, industry changing.
We intend to use these challenging market conditions to continue to positively differentiate ATI as a uniquely positioned, diversified, technology-driven global specialty metals producer.
We will make the company stronger and better positioned with unsurpassed manufacturing and technology value for our customers.
We will see through the fog of uncertainty and risk, deploy and execute our plans to effectively, compete, operate, and navigate the recession for as long as it lasts, while looking to position ATI for long-term success where opportunities arise.
We will adjust to market conditions, and be prepared with contingency plans that can be implemented if current conditions decline further, or begin to improve.
ATI is a globally focused, high-value specialty metals company. We have a strong cash position, strong cash flow, and good liquidity. We can self-fund our capital investments for unsurpassed manufacturing to compete globally for the long-run  and continue to maintain a strong balance sheet and good liquidity.
Our goal is to come out of the recession an even stronger and better company.
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of Conference Call
 
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. And thanks to all the listeners for joining us this afternoon. As always, news releases may be obtained by email and are available on our website, www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Also a rebroadcast of this conference call is available on our website. That concludes our conference call.


