FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20090116164615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 16, 2009, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") announced that Douglas A. Kittenbrink, Executive Vice President, Corporate Planning and International Business Development, has decided to leave the Company to devote more time to his family's business pursuits and to work with nonprofit and charitable organizations with which he has been associated for many years, effective March 1, 2009. The Company issued a press release on January 16, 2009, which is set forth in its entirety and attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
(b)
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 16, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Dan L. Greenfield 412- 394-3004
Pittsburgh, PA, January 16, 2009  Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) announced today that Carl R. Moulton will become Vice President, International. Douglas A. Kittenbrink, Executive Vice President, Corporate Planning and International Business Development, has decided to leave ATI to devote more time to his family's business pursuits and to work with nonprofit and charitable organizations with which he has been associated for many years. The changes are effective March 1, 2009.
"As President of our Uniti titanium joint venture, Carl Moulton has helped enable ATI to become more globally focused and has helped expand our direct international sales," said L. Patrick Hassey, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We acknowledge and thank Doug Kittenbrink for his years of service and accomplishments at ATI and wish him and his family the best of luck in the future."
Carl Moulton, 61, will be responsible for ATI's commercial activities in Europe and Asia, and ATI's STAL Precision Rolled Strip and Uniti titanium joint ventures. Mr. Moulton is currently President of Uniti LLC. Carl, a graduate of Dartmouth College, began his career as a sales representative with Allegheny Ludlum in 1972 before joining Jessop Steel as vice president, marketing in 1981. He was president of Jessop Steel when ATI acquired Jessop in 1993. Since rejoining ATI, Carl has served in various important commercial and strategic roles. He was involved in the strategic planning of Uniti and was selected its first president when it was formed in 2003. Under Mr. Moulton's leadership, Uniti has become one of the world's leading suppliers of industrial titanium products.
Doug Kittenbrink, 53, has held numerous positions in engineering, operations, and executive management and has made important contributions to ATI's success since joining the Company in 1992. He has agreed to provide consulting services to the Company over the next two years.
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of $5.5 billion during 2007. ATI has approximately 9,700 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer growing global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, chemical process industry/oil and gas, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, stainless and specialty alloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, zirconium, hafnium, and niobium, tungsten materials, and forgings and castings. The Allegheny Technologies website is .
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
www.alleghenytechnologies.com


