FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20090422143331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 22, 2009, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its first quarter 2009 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including credit market conditions and related issues, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 22, 2009
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies earnings conference call for the first quarter 2009.
This conference call is being broadcast on our website at . Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
www.alleghenytechnologies.com
Participating in the call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
All references to net income and earnings in this conference call mean net income and earnings "attributable to ATI common stockholders."
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
 
Here is Pat Hassey.
Thanks, Dan. And thank you to everyone listening on today's call.
I would like to discuss 3 things this afternoon:
The first quarter 2009 presented the most challenging economic conditions we have ever seen. However, we were able to navigate through this economy and:
 
In January we said that we expected the first quarter 2009 earnings to be at or near break even. We did better than break even, earning $5.9 million, or $0.06 per share, on sales of $832 million in the first quarter 2009.
We consider our cash flow generation and earnings to be good results given the difficult environment and the significant negative impact from out-of-phase raw materials surcharges and indices that we absorbed in the quarter.
While we are not satisfied with being marginally profitable, our ability to generate these positive results demonstrates our globally competitive position.
ATI is uniquely positioned, globally-focused, and diversified in products and markets which have a global reach. Because of this, ATI is now one of the few metals manufacturers in the world that can be profitable in the current global economic environment.
 
We have been able to navigate this business environment by:
Sales of our high-value products were 83% of first quarter 2009 sales compared to 73% for the full-year 2008. Our exotic alloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, titanium and titanium alloys, and nickel-based and specialty alloys held up relatively well, when compared to standard stainless and other commodity related products and most of our Engineered Products.
Our differentiated product strategy is working.
The long-term agreements that we have put into place over the last several years are providing a measure of stability during this steep downturn. We have long-term agreements with customers in our airframe, aeroengine, electrical distribution and generation, oil and gas, tooling, and medical markets.
 
As an example, total shipments of our titanium mill products were 10.3 million pounds in the first quarter 2009. This is both high performance and flat-rolled products. In answering a question in our January conference call, I said that I would be personally disappointed if our full-year titanium mill product shipments were not at least 40 million pounds. We are on that annualized rate at the end of the first quarter.
However, first quarter shipments of nearly all of our products were down compared both to the first and fourth quarters 2008. We have been adjusting and continue to adjust our production schedules as needed. We have reduced manufacturing and administrative headcount across ATI.
 
ATI's performance continues to be driven by the global aerospace and defense, oil and gas, chemical process industry, electrical energy, and medical markets. These markets represented 79% of our total sales in the first quarter 2009 as compared to 70% of ATI sales for the full year 2008.
We believe these core markets for ATI are very attractive in the longer term and can still outperform most consumer and durable goods markets in the shorter term:
By contrast:
 
Our strategy to become more global is certainly working. Direct international sales were nearly 30% of sales in the first quarter 2009. For comparison, direct international sales were 28% of total sales for the full year 2008.
We are deploying our cash for the long-term in state-of-the-art equipment and facilities, and we continue to make significant progress in putting in place unsurpassed global manufacturing capabilities.
 
Turning to our segments: Operating margins in our were 14%, a level that we're not used to or satisfied with, and which was negatively affected by over $18 million of metal mis-matches not offset in the quarter.
High Performance Metals segment
The segment's largest market, commercial aerospace, was impacted by schedule pushouts and uncertainties as the supply chain adjusted to revised commercial airplane build schedules as well as reduced demand from the aeroengine aftermarket.
The aerospace supply chain likely needs to further adjust to recently announced commercial aircraft production schedules.
 
We remain confident in the long-term growth potential of our core aerospace market. Last week, GE said that their aeroengine orders during the first quarter for both equipment and spares were good. Today, Boeing reaffirmed the current 787 schedule and Boeing's significant backlog of orders.
The aerospace backlogs are still there. The build rate is moving out, not being canceled.
Our exotic alloys business is solid and growing. We think that this business is positioned to do well in 2009 and beyond. The business has a good backlog for large global chemical process industry projects. In addition, demand is very good and growing from the nuclear energy market.
We believe we are seeing the beginning of a strong nuclear electrical energy up cycle. This first stage is being driven by higher utilization of existing facilities, which results in quicker replacement of nuclear fuel components, which use our zirconium and hafnium alloys.
The second growth driver is the restart of idled nuclear electrical energy capacity. The third stage will be construction of new nuclear reactors. So we see the nuclear energy market as a growth driver over the next several years, and long term for ATI.
 
The was marginally profitable in the first quarter 2009. This was accomplished with a $48 million negative impact from out-of-phase raw materials surcharges. Keep in mind, this segment lost a lot of money during the last downturn when volume and base prices for stainless were actually better. We are seeing the benefits of the transformation of our Flat-Rolled Products segment that began in 2004. This is a much different business than it was during the previous downturn. The product mix is much more diversified, our focus is more global, our cost structure is much lower, and our manufacturing capabilities are much better, from melt through finishing.
Flat-Rolled Products segment
First quarter 2009 shipments of grain-oriented electrical steel and industrial titanium were at reasonably good levels relative to economic conditions. Shipments of standard grade stainless were very low at just over 100 million pounds, or 50,000 tons, in the first quarter. Base prices were also very low. While it is too early to be optimistic about a stainless recovery, there are signs that the market may be near a bottom:
 
Demand for almost all products in our was weak in the first quarter 2009, and we lost money in this segment due to the very low operating rates that we experienced.
Engineered Products segment
Looking ahead, we see some other signs of stabilization and opportunity for ATI in certain markets. Here are some examples:
 
 
Looking forward to the second quarter, we still remain cautious. We are not immune from an extended downturn in the global economy. While we see some signs of stabilization in some markets, demand for many of our products remain at very low levels, the pricing environment remains challenging, and visibility is limited.
As a result of the conditions discussed, we expect second quarter earnings to be modestly better than the first quarter 2009. In addition, we expect to end the second quarter 2009 with a significant amount of cash on hand while continuing to self fund our capital investments.
Our focus and actions are intended to keep ATI profitable through what appears to be a challenging year. We expect to generate sufficient cash flow to self fund our capital investments, maintain our dividend policy, and preserve our financial flexibility and solid balance sheet.
We remain confident in the long-term growth potential of our core aerospace and infrastructure markets that have been driving ATI's performance.
These are the right markets for ATI. Therefore, our strategic direction and vision remain intact.
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
 
Q&A Portion of the Conference Call
Pat Hassey:
Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. Thanks to all of the listeners for joining us today. That concludes our conference call.


