FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20090603165549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     
Issuance of Senior Notes
     On June 1, 2009, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") completed its offering and sale of $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 9.375% Senior Notes due 2019 (the "Senior Notes"). The offering and sale of the Senior Notes was made pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
     The Senior Notes were issued pursuant to the Indenture, dated June 1, 2009 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated June 1, 2009 (the "Senior Notes Supplemental Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee.
     The Senior Notes will accrue interest at the rate of 9.375% per annum and be payable in cash semi-annually in arrears on each June 1 and December 1, commencing December 1, 2009. The Senior Notes will mature on June 1, 2019. The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at any time and from time to time prior to maturity, in whole or in part, by paying a "make-whole" premium. If the Company undergoes a change of control repurchase event, holders may request that the Company repurchase the Senior Notes in whole or in part for cash at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date.
     If an event of default with respect to the Senior Notes occurs, the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest may be declared immediately due and payable, subject to certain conditions. These amounts automatically become due and payable in the case of certain types of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization events of default involving the Company.
     The foregoing is a summary of the material terms and conditions of the Indenture, as supplemented by the Senior Notes Supplemental Indenture, and is not a complete discussion. Accordingly, the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Indenture and the Senior Notes Supplemental Indenture attached to this Current Report as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, which are incorporated herein by reference. A form of Senior Note is included in Exhibit 4.2.
     On June 1, 2009, the Company announced the completion of its offering of Senior Notes by means of a press release that is set forth in its entirety in and filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
     
Issuance of Convertible Notes
     On June 2, 2009, the Company completed its offering and sale of $402,500,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Convertible Notes"), including $52,500,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes sold pursuant to
Table of Contents
an over-allotment option which was exercised in full. The offering and sale of the Convertible Notes was made pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement filed with the SEC.
     The Convertible Notes were issued pursuant to the Indenture, as further supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated June 2, 2009 (the "Convertible Notes Supplemental Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee.
     The Convertible Notes will accrue interest at the rate of 4.25% per annum and be payable in cash semi-annually in arrears on each June 1 and December 1, commencing December 1, 2009. The Convertible Notes will mature on June 1, 2014. The Company may not redeem the Convertible Notes prior to their stated maturity date. If the Company undergoes a fundamental change, holders of Convertible Notes may require the Company to repurchase the Convertible Notes in whole or in part for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date.
     Holders of Convertible Notes may convert their Convertible Notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the stated maturity date for the Convertible Notes. The initial conversion rate for the Convertible Notes will be 23.9263 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $41.795 per share of the Company's common stock. The conversion rate and the conversion price may be adjusted under certain circumstances.
     If an event of default with respect to the Convertible Notes occurs, the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, plus premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest may be declared immediately due and payable, subject to certain conditions. These amounts automatically become due and payable in the case of certain types of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization events of default involving the Company.
     The foregoing is a summary of the material terms and conditions of the Indenture, as supplemented by the Convertible Notes Supplemental Indenture, and is not a complete discussion. Accordingly, the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Indenture and the Convertible Notes Supplemental Indenture attached to this Current Report as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.3, respectively, which are incorporated herein by reference. A form of Convertible Note is included in Exhibit 4.3.
     On June 2, 2009, the Company announced the completion of its offering of Convertible Notes by means of a press release that is set forth in its entirety in and filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
     
Amendment of Credit Agreement
     On May 29, 2009, the Company announced that it amended certain definitions and financial covenants in its $400 million senior unsecured domestic revolving credit facility to provide
Table of Contents
additional financial flexibility. The amendment restates the definition of consolidated earnings before interest and taxes and consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization as used in the interest coverage and leverage ratios to exclude any non-cash pension expense or income and restates the definition of consolidated indebtedness used in the leverage ratio, which previously was based on gross indebtedness, to be net of cash on hand in excess of $50 million.
     The amendment is evidenced by a First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated May 29, 2009 (the "First Amendment"), by and among ATI Funding Corporation, TDY Holdings, LLC, the guarantors party thereto, the lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders. The foregoing is a summary of the material terms and conditions of the First Amendment and not a complete discussion of the document. Accordingly, the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the First Amendment which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     The disclosure set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 3, 2009
Table of Contents

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
     INDENTURE, dated as of June 1, 2009, between Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office as of the date hereof at 1000 Six PPG Place, Pittsburgh, PA 15222, and The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
     The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
     All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
     NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
     For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
Section 1.01 .
Definitions
     For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
     (1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
     (2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
     (3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term GAAP with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of such computation;
     (4) the words "Article" and "Section" refer to an Article and Section, respectively, of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise indicates;
     (5) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
     (6) Certain terms used principally in Articles III, V, XII and XIII are defined in those Articles.
     "Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 1.04.
     "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
     "Bankruptcy Default" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 5.01.
     "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar Federal, state or foreign law for the relief of debtors.
     "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board.
     "Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
     "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
     "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
     "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman of the Board, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
     "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee in New York, New York at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office as of the date hereof is located at 101 Barclay Street  8th Floor West, New York, NY 10286, Attn: Corporate Trust Division  Corporate Finance Unit, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Company, or principal corporate trust office of any Successor Trustee (or such other address as such Successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Company).
     "Corporation" means a corporation, association, company, joint-stock company or business trust.
     "Covenant Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 13.03.
     "Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 3.07.
     "Defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 13.02.
     "Defeasible Series" has the meaning specified in Section 13.01.
     "Depositary" means, with respect to Securities of any series issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for such Securities as contemplated by Section 3.01.
     "Establishment Action" shall mean:
     (i) a resolution duly adopted by the Company's Board of Directors establishing one or more series of Securities, authorizing the issuance of any Security and/or authorizing any other action that may be taken by the Company in connection with this Indenture or the Securities, or
     (ii) a resolution or action by a committee, officer or employee of the Company, establishing one or more series of Securities, authorizing the issuance of any Security and/or authorizing any other action that may be taken by the Company in connection with this Indenture or the Securities, in each case, pursuant to a resolution duly
 
adopted by the Company's Board of Directors.
     "Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01.
     "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any statute successor thereto.
     "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession.
     "Global Security" means a Security that evidences all or part of the Securities of any series and is authenticated and delivered to, and registered in the name of, the Depositary for such Securities or a nominee thereof.
     "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register.
     "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument, and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 3.01.
     "Interest", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
     "Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
     "Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
     "Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 5.01(4).
     "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
     "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel (who may be counsel for the Company) who is acceptable to the Trustee.
     "Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02.
     "Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, :
except
     (1) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
     (2) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture
provided
 
or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
     (3) Securities as to which Defeasance has been effected pursuant to Section 13.02; and
     (4) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 3.06 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
, , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, (A) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 5.02, (B) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the U.S. dollar equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security of the amount determined as provided in clause (A) above) of such Security, and (C) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, unless the Company or any such other obligor or Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor owns all of such Securities, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
provided
however
     "Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
     "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
     "Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 3.01.
     "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 3.06 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
     "Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
     "Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
     "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 3.01.
     "Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer assigned to the Corporate Trust Division  Corporate Finance Unit (or any other successor division or unit) of the Trustee located at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture and, for purposes of Sections 5.12 and 6.01(c)(2) and the last sentence of Section 6.05 hereof, also means, with
 
respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
     "Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
     "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
     "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 3.05.
     "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 3.07.
     "Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
     "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; , , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
provided
however
     "Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean each Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
     "U.S. Government Obligations" has the meaning specified in Section 13.04.
     "Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
Section 1.02 .
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
     Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture.
     Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than the Officers' Certificate required by the first paragraph of Section 10.04) shall include
     (1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
     (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
     (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
     (4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has
 
been complied with.
Section 1.03 .
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
     In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
     Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
     Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
Section 1.04 .
Acts of Holders; Record Dates
     Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.01) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
     The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
     The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
     Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
     The Company may, in the circumstances permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, set any day as the record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series. With regard to any record date set pursuant to
 
this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents), and only such Persons, shall be entitled to give or take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date. With regard to any action that may be given or taken hereunder only by Holders of a requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any series (or their duly appointed agents) and for which a record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company may, at its option, set an expiration date after which no such action purported to be given or taken by any Holder shall be effective hereunder unless given or taken on or prior to such expiration date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents). On or prior to any expiration date set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company may, on one or more occasions at its option, extend such date to any later date. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent any Holder (or any duly appointed agent thereof) from giving or taking, after any such expiration date, any action identical to, or, at any time, contrary to or different from, the action or purported action to which such expiration date relates, in which event the Company may set a record date in respect thereof pursuant to this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken at any time by the Holders (or their duly appointed agents) of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is so taken. Notwithstanding the foregoing or the Trust Indenture Act, the Company shall not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, any notice, declaration or direction referred to in the next paragraph.
     The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving or making of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 5.02, if an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series has occurred and is continuing and the Trustee shall not have given such a declaration to the Company, (iii) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 5.07(2) or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 5.12, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee shall notify the Company and the Holders of Outstanding Series of such series of any such record date so fixed and the proposed action. The Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents), and only such Persons, shall be entitled to join in such notice, declaration or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; that, unless such notice, declaration or direction shall have become effective by virtue of Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date (or their duly appointed agents) having joined therein on or prior to the 90th day after such record date, such notice, declaration or direction shall automatically and without any action by any Person be cancelled and of no further effect. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent a Holder (or a duly appointed agent thereof) from giving, before or after the expiration of such 90-day period, a notice, declaration or direction contrary to or different from, or, after the expiration of such period, identical to, the notice, declaration or direction to which such record date relates, in which event a new record date in respect thereof shall be set pursuant to this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any notice, declaration or direction of the type referred to in this paragraph given at any time to the Trustee and the Company by Holders (or their duly appointed agents) of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such notice, declaration or direction is so given.
provided
     Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to give or take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any different part of such principal amount.
Section 1.05 .
Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company
     Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
     (1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing (which may be via facsimile) to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Finance Unit, or
     (2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company
 
addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
Section 1.06 .
Notice to Holders; Waiver
     Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
     In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder.
Section 1.07 .
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
     If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under such Act to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be. Wherever this Indenture refers to a provision of the Trust Indenture Act, such provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
     The following Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
     "commission" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission;
     "indenture securities" means the Securities;
     "indenture security holder" means a Holder;
     "indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture;
     "indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee; and
     "obligor on the indenture securities" means the Company and any other obligor on the Securities.
     All other Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the Trust Indenture Act, defined by the Trust Indenture Act referenced to another statute or defined by any Commission rule and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings defined to them thereby.
Section 1.08 .
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
     The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 1.09 .
Successors and Assigns
     All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
Section 1.10 .
Separability Clause
     In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 1.11 .
Benefits of Indenture
     Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 1.12 .
Governing Law
     This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
Section 1.13 .
Legal Holidays
     In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities (other than a provision of the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity, provided that no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Section 1.14 .
Waiver of Jury Trial
     EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE, AND EACH HOLDER OF A SECURITY BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 1.15 .
Force Majeure
     In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Section 2.01 .
Forms Generally
     The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article, or in such other form as shall be established by or pursuant to an Establishment Action or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may,
 
consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to an Establishment Action, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 3.03 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
     The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Section 2.02 .
Form of Face of Security
     [Insert any legend required by the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.]
     [Insert Global Security legend if required.]
     Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of Dollars on [ , and to pay interest thereon from or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on and in each year, commencing , at the rate of % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment [ , and at the rate of % per annum on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue installment of interest]. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the or (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture].
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
if the Security is to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
                    
                    
                    
                    
                     
if applicable, insert
                    
                    
                    
     [  The principal of this Security shall not bear interest except in the case of a default in payment of principal upon acceleration, upon redemption or at Stated Maturity and in such case the overdue principal of this Security shall bear interest at the rate of % per annum, which shall accrue from the date of such default in payment to the date payment of such principal has been made or duly provided for. Interest on any overdue principal shall be payable on demand. Any such interest on any overdue principal that is not so paid on demand shall bear interest at the rate of % per annum, which shall accrue from the date of such demand for payment to the date payment of such interest has been made or duly provided for, and such interest shall also be payable on demand.]
If the Security is not to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
                    
                    
     Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and [  any such] interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in , in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts [ ; , , that at the option of the
if applicable, insert
                    
if applicable, insert
provided
however
 
Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register] [  ; , , that any such payment in respect of a Global Security shall be made in same-day funds to the applicable Depositary].
if applicable, insert
provided
however
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated:
Attest:
                    
                    
                    
     [Insert Trustee's certificate of authentication.]
Section 2.03 .
Form of Reverse of Security
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of , 20 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and , as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof [ , limited in aggregate principal amount to $].
                    
                    
                    
                     
if applicable, insert
                    
     [If applicable, insert legend regarding conversion procedures]
     [  The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice by mail, [  (1) on in any year commencing with the year  and ending with the year through operation of the sinking fund for this series at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount, and (2)] at any time [  on or after , 20___], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the following Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount): If redeemed [  on or before , ___%, and if redeemed] during the 12-month period beginning   of the years indicated,
If applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
                    
                    
                    
if applicable, insert
                    
if applicable, insert
                    
                    
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption [  (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise)] with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close
                    
if applicable, insert
 
of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.      [  The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice by mail, (1) on in any year commencing with the year and ending with the year through operation of the sinking fund for this series at the Redemption Prices for redemption through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below, and (2) at any time [  on or after ], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the Redemption Prices for redemption otherwise than through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below: If redeemed during the 12-month period beginning of the years indicated,
If applicable, insert
                    
                    
if applicable, insert
                    
                    
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise) with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
                    
     [  The sinking fund for this series provides for the redemption on in each year beginning with the year and ending with the year of [  not less than $ ("mandatory sinking fund") and not more than] $  aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series. Securities of this series acquired or redeemed by the Company otherwise than through [ mandatory] sinking fund payments [  and Securities surrendered for conversion] may be credited against subsequent [  mandatory] sinking fund payments otherwise required to be made [  in the inverse order in which they become due].
If applicable, insert
                    
                    
                    
if applicable, insert
                    
                    
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
     [  In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.]
If the Security is subject to redemption of any kind, insert
     [  The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of [(1) the entire indebtedness of this Security or (2)] certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.]
If applicable, insert
     [  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.]
If the Security is not an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
     [  If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Such amount shall be equal to  . Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal and overdue interest all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.]
If the Security is an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
insert formula for determining the amount
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive
 
compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any Place of Payment, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company or the Security Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Section 2.04 .
Form of Legend for Global Securities
     Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for the Securities evidenced thereby, every Global Security authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
     This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of a Depositary or a nominee thereof. This Security may not be transferred to, or registered or exchanged for Securities registered in the name of, any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof and no such transfer may be registered, except in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture. Every Security
 
authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, this Security shall be a Global Security subject to the foregoing, except in such limited circumstances.
Section 2.05 .
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
     The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Section 3.01 .
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
     The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
     The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to an Establishment Action and, subject to Section 3.03, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
     (1) the title of the Securities of the series, including CUSIP Numbers (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from Securities of any other series);
     (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 9.06 or 11.07 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 3.03, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
     (3) the Person to whom any interest on a Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest;
     (4) the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable;
     (5) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for any interest payable on any Interest Payment Date;
     (6) the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable;
     (7) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company;
 
     (8) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
     (9) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable;
     (10) the currency, currencies or currency units in which payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable if other than the currency of the United States of America and the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in the currency of the United States of America for purposes of the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 1.01;
     (11) if the amount of payments of principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
     (12) if the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series is to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in one or more currencies or currency units other than that or those in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the currency, currencies or currency units in which payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on Securities of such series as to which such election is made shall be payable, and the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made;
     (13) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02;
     (14) if applicable, that the provisions of Article IV shall not apply to the Securities of the series;
     (15) if applicable, that the Securities of the series shall be subject to either or both of Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance as provided in Article XIII; provided that no series of Securities that is convertible into or exchangeable for any other securities pursuant to Section 3.01(16) shall be subject to Defeasance pursuant to Section 13.02;
     (16) if and as applicable, that the Securities of the series shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the Depositary or Depositaries for such Global Security or Global Securities and any circumstances other than those set forth in Section 3.05 in which any such Global Security may be transferred to, and registered and exchanged for Securities registered in the name of, a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof and in which any such transfer may be registered;
     (17) the terms and conditions, if any, pursuant to which the Securities are convertible into or exchangeable for any other securities;
     (18) any addition to or change in the covenants set forth in Article X which applies to Securities of the series; and
     (19) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 9.01(5)).
     All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to an Establishment Action referred to above and (subject to Section 3.03) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
     If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to an Establishment Action, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
 
     Subject to any limitation imposed in accordance with paragraph (2) above, the Company may, from time to time, by an Establishment Action and subject to compliance with any other applicable provisions of this Indenture, without the consent of the Holders, create and issue pursuant to this Indenture additional securities of any series of Securities ("") having terms and conditions identical to those of such series of Outstanding Securities, except that such Add On Securities:
Add On Securities
     (i) may have a different issue date from such series of Outstanding Securities;
     (ii) may have a different amount of interest payable on the first Interest Payment Date after issuance than is payable on such series of Outstanding Securities; and
     (iii) may have terms specified in such Establishment Action for such Add On Securities making appropriate adjustments to this Article III applicable to such Add On Securities in order to conform to and ensure compliance with the Securities Act (or applicable securities laws) which are not adverse in any material respect to the Holder of any Outstanding Securities (other than such Add On Securities) and which shall not affect the rights or duties of the Trustee.
Section 3.02 .
Denominations
     The Securities of each series shall be issuable only in registered form without coupons in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 3.01. In the absence of any such specified denomination with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
Section 3.03 .
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating
     The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Vice Chairman of the Board, its President, one of its Vice Presidents or its Treasurer, and attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries or by its Chief Financial Officer. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
     Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities.
     At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any Series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Establishment Actions as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be provided with, and (subject to Section 6.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
     (1) if the form of such Securities has been established by an Establishment Action as permitted by Section 2.01, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
     (2) if the terms of such Securities have been established by an Establishment Action as permitted by Section 3.01, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
     (3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
 
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 3.01 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
     Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
     No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 3.09, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Section 3.04 .
Temporary Securities
     Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
     If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series and tenor.
Section 3.05 .
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange
     The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
     Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor.
     At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same
 
series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
     All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
     Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
     No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company or Security Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.04, 9.06 or 11.07 not involving any transfer.
     The Company shall not be required (1) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that series selected for redemption under Section 11.03 and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (2) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
     Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, no Global Security may be transferred to, or registered or exchanged for Securities registered in the name of, any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or any nominee thereof, and no such transfer may be registered, unless (1) such Depositary (A) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after receiving such notice or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after becoming aware that the Depositary has ceased to be registered as a clearing agency, (2) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order that such Global Security shall be so transferable, registrable and exchangeable, and such transfers shall be registrable, (3) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Securities evidenced by such Global Security or (4) there shall exist such other circumstances, if any, as have been specified for this purpose as contemplated by Section 3.01. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, a Global Security to which the restriction set forth in the preceding sentence shall have ceased to apply may be transferred only to, and may be registered and exchanged for Securities registered only in the name or names of, such Person or Persons as the Depositary for such Global Security shall have directed and no transfer thereof other than such a transfer may be registered.
     Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security to which the restriction set forth in the first sentence of the preceding paragraph shall apply, whether pursuant to this Section, Section 3.04, 3.06, 9.06 or 11.07 or otherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security.
Section 3.06 .
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
     If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
     If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall
 
authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
     In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
     Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
     Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in exchange for any mutilated Security or in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
     The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
Section 3.07 .
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
     Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 3.01 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
     Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
     (1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities of such series at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
     (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
     Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 3.08 .
Persons Deemed Owners
     Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 3.07) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     Owners of beneficial interests in the Securities evidenced by a Global Security will not be entitled to any rights under this Indenture with respect to such Global Security, and the Depositary or its nominee may be treated by the Company and the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee, as the owner and Holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. None of the Company, the Trustee or any other agent of the Company or of the Trustee shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests. None of the Company, the Trustee, any agent of the Company or of the Trustee shall have any responsibility or liability to any Person for any acts or omissions of the Depositary or its nominee in respect of a Global Security, for the records of any such Depositary, including records in respect of beneficial ownership interests in respect of such Global Security, for any transactions between such Depositary and any participant or indirect participant in such Depositary or between or among such Depositary, any participant or indirect participant in such Depositary and/or any Holder or owner of a beneficial interest in such Global Security, or for any transfers of beneficial interests in any such Global Security. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or its nominee or impair, as between the Depositary or its nominee and such owners of beneficial interests, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of the Depositary or its nominee as Holder of any Global Security.
Section 3.09 .
Cancellation
     All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or conversion or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in its customary manner.
Section 3.10 .
Computation of Interest
     Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Section 3.11 .
CUSIP Numbers
     The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP", "ISIN" and other similar numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP", "ISIN" and other similar numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any changes in the "CUSIP", "ISIN" and other similar numbers.
provided
 
Section 4.01 .
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
     Unless otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with Section 3.01, this Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of conversion, registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
     (1) either
     (A) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 3.06 and (ii) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
     (B) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
     (i) have become due and payable, or
     (ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
     (iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and any premium and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
     (2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
     (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
     Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 6.07, and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 4.02 shall survive such satisfaction and discharge.
Section 4.02 .
Application of Trust Money
     All money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and any premium and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
 
Section 5.01 .
Events of Default
     "Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
     (1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days;
     (2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity;
     (3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days;
     (4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder;
     (5) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days;
     (6) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action (an event of default specified in clause (5) or (6), a "Bankruptcy Default"); or
     (7) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
Section 5.02 .
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
     If an Event of Default, other than a Bankruptcy Default, with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount (or, if any of the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such
 
Securities as may be specified in the terms thereof) of all of the Securities of that series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable.
     At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
     (1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
     (A) all overdue interest on all Securities of that series,
          (B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and any interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
     (C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
     (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and
     (2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 5.13.
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     If a Bankruptcy Default occurs, the principal of and accrued but unpaid interest on all Securities then outstanding will become immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
Section 5.03
Collection and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
     The Company covenants that if:
     (1) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
     (2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof,
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem necessary to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
 
Section 5.04 .
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
     In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 6.07.
     No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding; , , that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee.
provided
however
Section 5.05 .
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
     All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Section 5.06 .
Application of Money Collected
     Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article, and any money or other property distributable in respect of the Company's obligations under this Indenture after an Event of Default, shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
     FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee (including any predecessor Trustee) under Section 6.07;
     SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest, respectively; and
     THIRD: To the Company.
Section 5.07
Limitation on Suits.
     No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
     (1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
     (2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series
 
shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
     (3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
     (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
     (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
Section 5.08 .
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest
     Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 3.07) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Section 5.09 .
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
     If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Section 5.10 .
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
     Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 3.06, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 5.11 .
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
     No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Section 5.12 .
Control by Holders
     The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the
 
right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, that
provided
     (1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture,
     (2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction, and
     (3) subject to the provisions of Section 6.01, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer or Officers of the Trustee, determine that the proceedings so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
Section 5.13 .
Waiver of Past Defaults
     The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default
     (1) in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series, or
     (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article IX cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
     Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 5.14 .
Undertaking for Costs
     In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs against any such party litigant, including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holders of the Securities, or group of Holders of the Securities, holding in the aggregate more than 10% of principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder of the Outstanding Securities for the enforcement of the payment of principal of or interest on, or the conversion of, any Outstanding Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Outstanding Securities; and , , that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company.
provided
provided
further
Section 5.15 .
Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws
     The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any usury, stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
     The Trustee hereby accepts the trust imposed upon it by this Indenture and covenants and agrees to perform
 
the same, as herein expressed.
Section 6.01 .
Duties of Trustee
     (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
     (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
     (1) The Trustee need perform only those duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others, and no covenants or obligations shall be implied in or read into this Indenture.
     (2) In the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they substantially conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts, statements, opinions or conclusions stated therein).
     (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
     (1) This paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) or (d) of this Section 6.01.
     (2) The Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts.
     (3) The Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 5.12.
     (d) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or to take or omit to take any action under this Indenture.
     (e) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) of this Section 6.01.
     (f) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on, or for investment of, any assets received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Assets held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other assets except to the extent required by law.
Section 6.02 .
Rights of Trustee
     Subject to Section 6.01:
     (a) The Trustee may conclusively rely on any document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in any document.
     (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such certificate or opinion.
     (c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the
 
misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
     (d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes, suffers to exist or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers.
     (e) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such investigation.
     (f) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection of any action taken, suffered or omitted by in hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
     (g) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
     (h) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
     (i) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture.
     (j) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded.
     (k) Anything in this Indenture notwithstanding, in no event shall the Trustee be liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to loss of profit), even if the Trustee has been advised as to the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
Section 6.03 .
Individual Rights of Trustee
     The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent or Security Registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 6.08, 6.09 and 6.10.
Section 6.04 .
Trustee's Disclaimer
     The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities and it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement in the Securities, other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication, all of which statements shall be taken as the statements of the Company, or the use or application of any funds received by a Paying Agent other than the Trustee.
 
Section 6.05 .
Notice of Default
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing and if it is known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of Securities of such series notice of the uncured Event of Default within 90 days after such Event of Default occurs. Except in the case of an Event of Default in payment of principal (or premium, if any) of, or interest on, any Security, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a Responsible Officer in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series.
Section 6.06 .
Reports by Trustee to Holders
     Within 60 days after each February 15 beginning with the February 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of such February 15 that complies with Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a) if such report is required by such Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with Trust Indenture Act Sections 313(b) and 313(c).
     The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing if the Securities of any series become listed on any stock exchange or automatic quotation system.
     A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be mailed to the Company and filed with the Commission and each stock exchange, if any, on which the Securities are listed.
Section 6.07 .
Compensation and Indemnity
     The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation for its services as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable disbursements, expenses and advances incurred or made by it. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents, accountants, experts and counsel.
     The Company shall indemnify each of the Trustee (in its capacity as Trustee) and any predecessor Trustee and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, attorneys-in-fact and agents for, and hold it harmless against, any and all loss, liability, claim, damage, demand, expense (including but not limited to reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel), loss, charges (including taxes (other than taxes based upon the income of the Trustee)) or liability incurred by them without gross negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust and their rights or duties hereunder including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim asserted against the Trustee for which it may seek indemnity; provided, however, that the failure to so notify the Company shall not offset the Company's indemnification obligations hereunder. The Company shall defend the claim and the Trustee shall provide reasonable cooperation at the Company's expense in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. The Company need not pay for any settlement made without its written consent which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss or liability to the extent incurred by the Trustee as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have been caused by its own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.
     To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 6.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all assets held or collected by the Trustee, in its capacity as Trustee, except assets held in trust to pay principal and premium, if any, of or interest on particular Securities.
     In addition to and without prejudice to its other rights hereunder, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 5.01(5) or (6) occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
     The Company's obligations under this Section 6.07 and any lien arising hereunder shall survive the
 
resignation or removal of the Trustee, the discharge of the Company's obligations pursuant to Article IV of this Indenture and any rejection or termination of this Indenture under any Bankruptcy Law.
Section 6.08 .
Replacement of Trustee
     The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by so notifying the Company in writing. The Holder or Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of a series may remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of such series by so notifying the Company and the Trustee in writing and may appoint a successor trustee with respect to Securities of such series with the Company's consent. The Company may remove the Trustee if:
     (1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 6.10;
     (2) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
     (3) a receiver, custodian, or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
     (4) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
     If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee, with respect to Securities of that or those series. Within one year after the successor Trustee with respect to a series of Securities takes office, the Holder or Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of such series may appoint a successor Trustee with respect to such series to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.
     A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately after that and provided that all sums owing to the Trustee provided for in Section 6.07 have been paid, the retiring Trustee shall transfer all property held by it as Trustee with respect to such series of Securities to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided in Section 6.07, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. A successor Trustee with respect to one or more series of Securities shall mail notice of its succession to each Holder of Securities of that or those series.
     If a successor Trustee with respect to a series of Securities does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holder or Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that series may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
     If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 6.10, any Holder of Securities of a series may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to such series and the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to such series.
     Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 6.08, the Company's obligations under Section 6.07 and the lien provided for therein shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
Section 6.09
Successor Trustee by Merger, Etc.
     If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts with or into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another Person, the resulting, surviving or transferee Person without any further act shall, if such resulting, surviving or transferee Person is otherwise eligible hereunder, be the successor Trustee.
Section 6.10 .
Eligibility; Disqualification
     The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a)(1) and Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a)(5). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with Trust Indenture Act
 
Section 310(b).
Section 6.11 .
Preferential Collection of Claims against Company
     The Trustee shall comply with Trust Indenture Act Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in Trust Indenture Act Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Trust Indenture Act Section 311(a) to the extent indicated.
Section 7.01 .
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders
     The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
     (1) semi-annually, not more than 15 days after each Regular Record Date, a list for each series of Securities, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of such series as of the Regular Record Date, as the case may be, and
     (2) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
excluding
Section 7.02 .
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
     The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 7.01 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 7.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
     The rights of the Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
     Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 7.03 .
Reports by Trustee
     The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.
     A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
Section 7.04 .
Reports by Company
     The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; that any such information, documents or
provided
 
reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates). All information, documents and reports described in this Section 7.04 and filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system or any successor system shall be deemed to be filed with the Trustee as of the time they are filed via such system.
Section 8.01
When Company May Merge, Etc.
     The Company may not, in a single transaction or through a series of related transactions, consolidate with or merge with or into any other Person, or, directly or indirectly, sell or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to another Person or group of affiliated Persons, unless:
     (1) the Company shall be the continuing Person, or the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company are sold or conveyed (the Company or such other Person being hereinafter referred to as the "Surviving Person"), shall be organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture;
     (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction and the assumption of the obligations as set forth in clause (1), above, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
     (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, assignment, or transfer and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article VIII and that all conditions precedent herein provided relating to such transaction have been satisfied.
Section 8.02 .
Successor Substituted
     Upon any consolidation or merger, or any transfer of assets in accordance with Section 8.01, the Surviving Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such Surviving Person had been named as the Company herein. When a Surviving Person duly assumes all of the obligations of the Company pursuant hereto and pursuant to the Securities, the predecessor shall be relieved of the performance and observance of all obligations and covenants of this Indenture and the Securities, including but not limited to the obligation to make payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on all the Securities then outstanding, and the Company may thereupon or any time thereafter be liquidated and dissolved.
Section 9.01 .
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
     Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by an Establishment Action, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
 
     (1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company pursuant to Article VIII and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities;
     (2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
     (3) to add any additional Events of Default;
     (4) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in bearer form, registrable or not registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons, or to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form;
     (5) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, that any such addition, change or elimination (A) shall neither (i) apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor (ii) modify the rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (B) shall become effective only when there is no such Security Outstanding;
provided
     (6) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Article X or otherwise;
     (7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01;
     (8) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 6.11;
     (9) to cure any ambiguity, or to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein; or
     (10) to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, that such action pursuant to this clause (10) shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series.
provided
Section 9.02 .
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
     With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by an Establishment Action, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
provided
however
     (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest or the time of payment of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02, or change the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or adversely affect any rights of the Holders of Securities to require the Company to repay or repurchase the Securities, or
     (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent
 
of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or
     (3) modify any of the provisions of this Section or Section 5.13, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, , , that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 6.11 and 9.01(8), or
provided
however
     (4) change any obligation of the Company to maintain an office or agency, or
     (5) change any obligation of the Company to pay additional amounts, or
     (6) adversely affect any right of repayment or repurchase at the option of the Holder, or
     (7) reduce or postpone any sinking fund or similar provision.
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
     It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 9.03 .
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
     In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be provided with, and (subject to Section 6.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Section 9.04 .
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
     Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Section 9.05 .
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act
     Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 9.06 .
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
     Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
 
Section 10.01 .
Payment of Securities
     The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will pay the principal of and interest on the Securities of that series on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities of that series and this Indenture. An installment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities shall be considered paid on the date it is due if the Trustee or Paying Agent (other than the Company or an Affiliate of the Company) holds for the benefit of the Holders, on that date, immediately available funds deposited and designated for and sufficient to pay the installment. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and on overdue installments of interest at the rate specified in the Securities compounded semi-annually, to the extent lawful.
Section 10.02 .
Maintenance of Office or Agency
     The Company shall maintain in the Place of Payment for any series of Securities, an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served and, in the case of any series of Securities that is convertible or exchangeable for any other securities pursuant to Section 3.01(16), where Securities can be surrendered for conversion or exchange. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office.
     The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. The Company hereby initially designates the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee as such office of the Company.
provided
however
Section 10.03 .
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
     If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium and interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
     Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amount, such sum to be held as provided by the Trust Indenture Act, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
     The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (1) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (2) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities of that series, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities of that series.
 
     The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
     Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in New York City, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
Section 10.04 .
Compliance Certificate; Notice of Default
     The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of its fiscal year an Officers' Certificate (one of the signatories of which shall be the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer) complying with Section 314(a)(4) of the Trust Indenture Act and stating that a review of its activities during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing officers with a view to determining whether the Company has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Indenture (all without regard to periods of grace, which shall be deemed fulfilled unless and until the expiration of such periods or notice requirements) and further stating, as to each such officer signing such certificate, whether or not the signer knows of any failure by the Company to comply with any conditions or covenants in this Indenture and, if such signer does know of such a failure to comply, the certificate shall describe such failure with particularity. The Officers' Certificate shall also notify the Trustee should the relevant fiscal year end on any date other than the current fiscal year end date.
     So long as any of the Securities are outstanding, the Company will deliver to the Trustee, forthwith upon becoming aware of any Event of Default or any event, act or condition that, after notice or the passage of time or both, would be an Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Event of Default or any event, act or condition that, after notice or the passage of time or both, would be an Event of Default, and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
Section 10.05 .
Corporate Existence
     Subject to Article VIII, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence in accordance with its organizational documents.
Section 10.06 .
Waiver of Certain Covenants
     Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of such series, the Company may, with respect to the Securities of any series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in any covenant pursuant to Section 3.01(18), 9.01(2) or 9.01(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such series, if the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent expressly waived and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
Section 11.01 .
Applicability of Article
     Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
Section 11.02 .
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee
     The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by an Establishment Action. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of all or less than all the Securities of any series, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date, of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
Section 11.03 .
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed
     If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series. If less than all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series and specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence.
     If any Security selected for partial redemption is converted in part before termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Security so selected, the converted portion of such Security shall be deemed (so far as may be) to be the portion selected for redemption. Securities which have been converted during a selection of Securities to be redeemed shall be treated by the Trustee as Outstanding for the purpose of such selection.
     The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
     For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
Section 11.04 .
Notice of Redemption
     Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register.
     All notices of redemption shall state:
     (1) the Redemption Date,
     (2) the Redemption Price,
 
     (3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption of any Securities, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed,
     (4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
     (5) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price,
     (6) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case, and
     (7) applicable CUSIP, ISIN or other similar numbers.
     Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall be irrevocable.
Section 11.05 .
Deposit of Redemption Price
     On or before the Redemption Date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in Section 11.04, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.03) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date, other than any Securities called for redemption on that date which have been converted prior to the date of such deposit.
     If any Security called for redemption is converted, any money deposited with the Trustee or with any Paying Agent or so segregated and held in trust for the redemption of such Security shall (subject to any right of the Holder of such Security or any Predecessor Security to receive interest as provided in the last paragraph of Section 3.07) be paid to the Company upon Company Request or, if then held by the Company, shall be discharged from such trust.
Section 11.06 .
Securities Payable on Redemption Date
     Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; , , that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 3.07.
provided
however
     If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
Section 11.07 .
Securities Redeemed in Part
     Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such
 
Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
Section 12.01 .
Applicability of Article
     The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for Securities of such series.
     The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 12.02. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
Section 12.02 .
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities
     The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
provided
Section 12.03 .
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund
     Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 12.02 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 11.03 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 11.04. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 11.06 and 11.07.
Section 13.01 .
Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
     The Company may elect, at its option at any time, to have either Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 applied to the Outstanding Securities of any series designated pursuant to Section 3.01 as being defeasible pursuant to this Article XIII (hereinafter called a "Defeasible Series"), upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article XIII; , , that Section 13.02 shall not apply to any series of Securities that is convertible into or exchangeable for any other securities pursuant to Section 3.01(16). Any such election shall be evidenced by an
provided
however
 
Establishment Action or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 3.01 for such Securities.
Section 13.02 .
Defeasance and Discharge
     Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to have this Section 13.02 applied to the Outstanding Securities of any Defeasible Series and subject to Section 13.01, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series and to have satisfied all its other obligations under the Securities of such series and this Indenture insofar as the Securities of such series are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), subject to the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (1) the rights of Holders of Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 13.04 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on such Securities of such series when payments are due, (2) the Company's obligations with respect to the Securities of such series under Sections 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 10.02 and 10.03, (3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (4) this Article XIII. Subject to compliance with this Article XIII, the Company may exercise its option provided in Section 13.01 to have this Section 13.02 applied to the Outstanding Securities of any Defeasible Series notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option provided in Section 13.01 to have Section 13.03 applied to the Outstanding Securities of such series.
Section 13.03 .
Covenant Defeasance
     Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to have this Section 13.03 applied to the Outstanding Securities of any Defeasible Series, (1) the Company shall be released from its obligations under Section 8.01 and any covenants provided pursuant to Section 3.01(18) or 9.01(2) for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, and (2) the occurrence of any event specified in Sections 5.01(3) and 5.01(4) (with respect to Section 8.01 and any such covenants provided pursuant to Section 3.01(18) or 9.01(2)) shall be deemed not to be or result in an Event of Default, in each case with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series as provided in this Section on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter called "Covenant Defeasance"). For this purpose, such Covenant Defeasance means that the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such specified Section (to the extent so specified in the case of Section 5.01(4)), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be unaffected thereby.
Section 13.04 .
Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
     The following shall be the conditions to application of either Section 13.02 or Section 13.03 to the Outstanding Securities of any Defeasible Series:
     (1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee that satisfies the requirements contemplated by Section 6.09 and agrees to comply with the provisions of this Article XIII applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series, (A) money in an amount, or (B) U.S. Government Obligations that through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, in each case sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or any such other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of such series on the respective Stated Maturities, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and the Securities of such series. As used herein, "U.S. Government Obligation" means any security that is (i) a direct obligation of the United States of America for the payment of which full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged or (ii) an
 
obligation of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case (i) or (ii), is not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof.
     (2) In the case of an election under Section 13.02, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date first set forth hereinabove, there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case (A) or (B) to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit, Defeasance and discharge to be effected with respect to the Securities of such series and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit, Defeasance and discharge were not to occur.
     (3) In the case of an election under Section 13.03, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and Covenant Defeasance to be effected with respect to the Securities of such series and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would be the case if such deposit and Covenant Defeasance were not to occur.
     (4) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate to the effect that the Securities of such series, if then listed on any securities exchange, will not be delisted as a result of such deposit.
     (5) No Event of Default or event that (after notice or lapse of time or both) would become an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such deposit or, with regard to any Event of Default or any such event specified in Sections 5.01(5) and (6), at any time on or prior to the 90th day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until after such 90th day).
     (6) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act (assuming all Securities are in default within the meaning of such Act).
     (7) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
     (8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent with respect to such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
     (9) Such Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, unless such trust shall be qualified under such Act or exempt from regulation thereunder.
Section 13.05 .
Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to be Held in Trust;
Other Miscellaneous Provisions
     All money and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 13.06, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively as the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 13.04 in respect of the Securities of any Defeasible Series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities of such series and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any such Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of Securities of such series, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal and any premium and interest, but money so held in trust need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
     The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 13.04 or the principal and interest
 
received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge that by law is for the account of the Holders of Outstanding Securities.
     Anything in this Article XIII to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 13.04 with respect to Securities of any Defeasible Series that, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance with respect to the Securities of such series.
Section 13.06 .
Reinstatement
     If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with this Article XIII with respect to the Securities of any series by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article XIII with respect to Securities of such series until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all money held in trust pursuant to Section 13.05 with respect to Securities of such series in accordance with this Article XIII; , , that if the Company makes any payment of principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series to receive such payment from the money so held in trust.
provided
however
     This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
NOTE: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
     FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 1, 2009 (the ""), to the Base Indenture (defined below) between Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee under the Indenture (herein called the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
          WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009 (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of its Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture), to be issued in one or more series as therein provided;
Base Indenture
          WHEREAS, Sections 2.01, 3.01 and 9.01 of the Base Indenture provide that the Company, when authorized by an Establishment Action (as defined in the Base Indenture), and the Trustee may, without the consent of the Holders (as defined in the Base Indenture) of Securities, enter into one or more supplemental indentures, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series permitted by the Base Indenture;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of its Securities to be known as its 9.375% Senior Notes due 2019 (the ""), the form and substance of such Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture (together, the "");
Notes
Indenture
          WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the creation and issuance of such Notes under the Base Indenture, and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture to modify the Base Indenture and to provide certain additional provisions as hereinafter described; and
          WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture, and all requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with its terms, and to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, and all acts and things necessary have been done and performed to make this Supplemental Indenture enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects.
          NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises contained herein, each party agrees for the benefit of each other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes, as follows:
 
          SECTION 1.01. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Base Indenture.
Capitalized Terms.
          SECTION 1.02. References in this Supplemental Indenture to article and section numbers shall be deemed to be references to article and section numbers of this Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise specified.
References.
          SECTION 1.03. For purposes of this Supplemental Indenture, the following terms have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
Definitions.
          "" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, as of any particular time, the present value (discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the terms of the lease involved in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, as determined by the Company in good faith) of the obligation of the lessee thereunder for net rental payments (excluding, however, any amounts required to be paid by the lessee, whether or not designated as rent or additional rent, on account of maintenance and repairs, services, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges and any amounts required to be paid by the lessee thereunder contingent upon monetary inflation or the amount of sales, maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges) during the remaining term of that lease (including any period for which that lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended).
Attributable Debt
          "" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Base Indenture
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Change of Control
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Change of Control Repurchase Event
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01.
Comparable Treasury Issue
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01.
Comparable Treasury Price
          "" means the total of all the assets appearing on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries, less the following: (A) current liabilities; (B) intangible assets such as goodwill, trademarks, trade names, patents and unamortized debt discount and expense; and (C) appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other Persons holding stock in any Subsidiary of the Company.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
          "" means indebtedness for money borrowed.
Debt
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 2.03.
Depositary
          "" means a Subsidiary formed under the laws of, or conducting its principal operations within, the United States or any State or territory thereof.
Domestic Subsidiary
 
          "" means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of any Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such Person (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation of such other Person (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, or by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to take-or-pay, or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (ii) entered into for purposes of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Debt or other obligation of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof, in whole or in part; that the term "Guarantee" does not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The term "Guarantee" used as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
provided
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01.
Independent Investment Banker
          "" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Indenture
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 2.04.
Interest Payment Date
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Investment Grade
          "" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge or security interest of any kind, excluding certain liens relating to taxes, easements and similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business.
Lien
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Moody's
          "" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Notes
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01.
Primary Treasury Dealer
          "" means any manufacturing plant or other similar facility owned by the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary, the book value of the real property, plant and equipment of which (as shown, without deduction of any depreciation reserves, on the books of the owner or owners) is not less than two percent of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets except (A) any such plant or facility which the Board of Directors determines is not of material importance to the total business conducted, or assets owned, by the Company and its Domestic Subsidiaries as an entirety or (B) any portion of any such plant or facility which the Board of Directors determines not to be of material importance to the use or operation thereof.
Principal Property
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Purchase Price
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Rating Agency
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Rating Category
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Rating Date
 
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Ratings Event
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Redemption Date
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01.
Reference Treasury Dealer
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 2.04.
Regular Record Date
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01.
Remaining Life
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
S&P
          "" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing to the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary of any Principal Property or portion thereof (except for temporary leases for a term, including any renewal thereof, of not more than 36 months and except for leases between the Company and a Subsidiary or between Subsidiaries), which Principal Property (or portion thereof) has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Domestic Subsidiary to such Person.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
          "" means with respect to any Person, any corporation, association or other business entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person (or combination thereof). Unless otherwise specified, "Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary of the Company.
Subsidiary
          "" has the meaning provided in the preamble.
Supplemental Indenture
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01.
Treasury Rate
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.02.
Voting Stock
          SECTION 2.01. The Notes are hereby authorized and are designated the 9.375% Senior Notes due 2019, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $350,000,000. The Notes issued on the date hereof pursuant to the terms of this Indenture shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $350,000,000, which amount shall be set forth in the Company Order for the authentication and delivery of the Notes pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Base Indenture. In addition, the Company may issue, from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture, additional Notes having the same terms and conditions as the Notes issued on the date hereof in all respects (except for the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such additional Notes), so that such additional Notes
Designation and Principal Amount.
 
shall be consolidated and form a single series with the Notes issued on the date hereof and shall be governed by the terms of the Indenture.
          SECTION 2.02. The principal amount of the Notes shall be due and payable on June 1, 2019.
Maturity.
          SECTION 2.03. The Notes shall be issued in substantially the form set forth on Exhibit A hereto and shall have the terms set forth in such form and shall initially be Global Securities for purposes of the Base Indenture. The Notes shall be issued in fully registered book-entry form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Form and Payment.
          The Depositary in respect of the Notes represented by Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company. The Global Securities representing the Notes shall be deposited with, or on behalf of, the Depositary and shall be registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co. Except as otherwise set forth in Section 3.05 of the Base Indenture, the Global Securities may be transferred, in whole and not in part, only to another nominee of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or its nominee.
          The Trustee shall act as Paying Agent for the Notes. The Company may choose to pay interest by mailing checks or making wire transfers. All money paid by the Company to any Paying Agent that remains unclaimed at the end of two years after the amount is due to Holders shall be repaid to the Company, subject to any applicable abandoned property laws. After such two-year period, Holders may look only to the Company for payment and not to the Trustee, any other Paying Agent or anyone else. The Company may also arrange for additional payment offices, and may cancel or change these offices, including any use of the Trustee's Corporate Trust Office. The Company may appoint and change the Paying Agent without prior notice to the Holders.
          SECTION 2.04. Interest on the Notes shall accrue at the rate of 9.375% per annum. Interest on the Notes shall accrue from June 1, 2009 or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest was paid or duly provided for. Interest on the Notes shall be payable semiannually in arrears on June 1 and December 1, commencing on December 1, 2009 (each an ""), to the Holders in whose names the Notes are registered at the close of business on the May 15 and November 15 immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (each a ""). Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
Interest.
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
          SECTION 2.05. . The provisions of Article XII of the Base Indenture shall not be applicable to the Notes.
No Sinking Fund
 
          In addition to the covenants set forth in Article X of the Base Indenture, the Company also covenants and agrees for the benefit of Notes, but not Securities of any other series, as follows:
          SECTION 3.01. The Company shall not, and will not permit any of its Domestic Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, to issue, assume or guarantee any Debt if that Debt is secured by any Lien upon any Principal Property (or portion thereof) of the Company or of any Domestic Subsidiary of the Company or any shares of stock or Debt of any of its Domestic Subsidiaries, whether owned on June 1, 2009 or thereafter acquired, without effectively securing the Notes equally and ratably with that Debt, so long as such Debt is so secured. The foregoing restriction does not apply to:
Limitation on Liens.
     (i) Liens on any property acquired, constructed or improved by the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary of the Company after June 1, 2009, which are created or assumed contemporaneously with or within three years after its acquisition, or completion of construction or improvement (or within six months thereafter pursuant to a firm commitment for financing arrangements entered into within that three-year period) to secure or provide for the payment of the Purchase Price or cost thereof, or Liens existing on any property at the time of its acquisition;
     (ii) Liens existing on any property, shares of stock or indebtedness acquired from a Person merged with or into the Company or a Domestic Subsidiary of the Company after June 1, 2009;
     (iii) with respect to any corporation that becomes a Domestic Subsidiary of the Company after June 1, 2009, Liens on property of, or shares of stock or indebtedness issued by, any such corporation existing at the time it becomes a Domestic Subsidiary and not incurred in connection with or in anticipation of such corporation becoming a Domestic Subsidiary;
     (iv) Liens to secure Debt of a Domestic Subsidiary owed to the Company or Debt of one of the Domestic Subsidiaries of the Company owed to another Domestic Subsidiary of the Company;
     (v) Liens in favor of governmental bodies to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute;
     (vi) any Lien existing on June 1, 2009; or
     (vii) Liens for the sole purpose of extending, renewing or replacing Debt, in whole or in part, secured by any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (i) to (vi), inclusive; , , that the principal amount of Debt secured by that Lien shall not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or
provided
however
 
replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to the property that secured the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property).
          The limitation on Liens described in this Section 3.01 shall not apply to the issuance, assumption or guarantee by the Company or any Domestic Subsidiary of the Company of Debt secured by a Lien which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions up to an aggregate amount which, together with all other Debt of the Company and of the Domestic Subsidiaries of the Company secured by Liens (not including Liens permitted under the foregoing exceptions) and the Attributable Debt with respect to Sale and Leaseback Transactions existing at that time (other than Sale and Leaseback Transactions in which the property involved would have been permitted to be subject to a Lien under clause (i) above), does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
          SECTION 3.02. The Company and the Domestic Subsidiaries of the Company are prohibited from entering into Sale and Leaseback Transactions unless:
Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
     (i) the Company or such Domestic Subsidiary of the Company would be entitled to incur Debt secured by a Lien on the Principal Property to be leased without equally and ratably securing the Notes, pursuant to clauses (i)  (vii) under Section 3.01 above; or the Attributable Debt with respect thereto would be an amount permitted under the last paragraph of Section 3.01 above; or
     (ii) the Company or such Domestic Subsidiary of the Company shall, within 180 days of the effective date of any such arrangement, apply an amount equal to the proceeds from such Sale and Leaseback Transaction to the payment or other retirement of Debt that ranks senior to or equal with the Notes (other than, in either case, Debt owed by the Company or any Subsidiary), or to the purchase of other Principal Property.
          SECTION 3.03. The Company and the Domestic Subsidiaries of the Company are prohibited from entering into any agreement pursuant to which any such Domestic Subsidiary of the Company guarantees the payment of Debt incurred by the Company without providing that the Notes be equally and ratably guaranteed by such Domestic Subsidiary of the Company.
Limitation on Guarantees.
          SECTION 4.01. The Company may redeem the Notes, at its option, at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, at a price equal to the greater of:
Optional Redemption.
     (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued interest to the Redemption Date; or
 
     (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed, exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption, discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest to the Redemption Date.
          For purposes of determining the optional redemption price, the following definitions are applicable:
          "" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (the "") of the Notes that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
          "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations obtained by the Company for that Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or, if the Company is unable to obtain at least four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations obtained by the Company.
Comparable Treasury Price
          "" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., and their respective successors, as selected by the Company or, if such firms are unwilling or unable to select the applicable Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
          "" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and their respective successors and at least two other primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City (each, a "") selected by the Independent Investment Banker; , , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
provided
however
          "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date for the Notes, the average, as determined by the Company, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue, expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount, quoted in writing to the Trustee by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding the Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
          "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities", for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining
Treasury Rate
 
Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounded to the nearest month) or (ii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
          SECTION 4.02.    If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes as described under Section 4.01 above, the Company will be required to make an offer to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (in a principal amount of $2,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes at a repurchase price (the "") in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to, but not including, the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice (the ""), which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice. The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached the Company's obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes by virtue of such conflict.
Purchase of Notes Upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event.
Purchase Price
Repurchase Date
          On the Repurchase Date following a Change of Control Repurchase Event, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
     (i) accept for payment all the Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Company's offer;
     (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the aggregate Purchase Price in respect of all the Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered; and
     (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes being purchased by the Company.
 
          The Paying Agent will promptly deliver to each Holder of Notes properly tendered, the Purchase Price for the Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered.
          The Company will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
          For purposes hereof, the following definitions are applicable:
          "" means the occurrence of any one of the following:
Change of Control
     (i) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person (including any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act)) other than to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries;
     (ii) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any Person (including any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act)) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
     (iii) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
     (iv) the first day on which the majority of the members of the Board of Directors cease to be Continuing Directors; or
     (v) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
          "" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Ratings Event.
Change of Control Repurchase Event
          "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on June 1, 2009 or (2) was
Continuing Director
 
nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election.
          "" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor Rating Categories of Moody's), a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor Rating Categories of S&P) and the equivalent Investment Grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
Investment Grade
          "" means Moody's Investors Service Inc.
Moody's
          "" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the control of the Company, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-l(e)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
Rating Agency
          "" means (i) with respect to S&P, any of the following categories: BBB, BB, B, CCC, CC, C and D (or equivalent successor categories); (ii) with respect to Moody's, any of the following categories: Baa, Ba, B, Caa, Ca, C and D (or equivalent successor categories); and (iii) the equivalent of any such category of S&P or Moody's used by another Rating Agency. In determining whether the rating of the Notes has decreased by one or more gradations, gradations within Rating Categories (+ and  for S&P; 1, 2 and 3 for Moody's; or the equivalent gradations for another Rating Agency) shall be taken into account (, with respect to S&P, a decline in a rating from BB+ to BB, as well as from BB- to B+, will constitute a decrease of one gradation).
Rating Category
e.g.
          "" means the date that is 60 days prior to the earlier of (i) a Change of Control or (ii) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or of the intention by the Company to affect a Change of Control.
Rating Date
          "" means the occurrence of the events described in (a) or (b) of this definition on, or within 60 days after the earlier of, (i) the occurrence of a Change of Control or (ii) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the intention by the Company to effect a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies): (a) if the Notes are rated by both Rating Agencies on the Rating Date as Investment Grade, the rating of the Notes shall be reduced so that the Notes are rated below Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies or (b) if the Notes are rated below Investment Grade by at least one Rating Agency, the ratings of the Notes by both Rating Agencies shall be decreased by one or more gradations (including gradations within Rating Categories, as well as between Rating Categories) and the Notes are then rated below Investment Grade by both Rating Agencies.
Ratings Event
          "" means Standard & Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
 
          "" of any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
          In addition to the Events of Default set forth in Section 5.01 of the Base Indenture, the Notes, but not Securities of any other series, shall also be subject to the following Events of Default:
     (i) a failure by the Company to repurchase Notes tendered for repurchase following the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event in conformity with Section 4.02 above; and
     (ii) a failure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to pay any Debt, within any applicable grace period after final maturity or the acceleration by the holders thereof, if the total amount of such Debt unpaid or accelerated exceeds $50,000,000.
          SECTION 6.01. The Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Base Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Ratification of Base Indenture.
          SECTION 6.02. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Section 310 through 317 of the Trust Indenture Act, the imposed duties shall control.
Trust Indenture Act Controls.
          SECTION 6.03. To the extent not expressly amended or modified by this Supplemental Indenture, the Base Indenture shall remain in full force and effect. If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture relating to the Notes is inconsistent with any provision of the Base Indenture, the provision of this Supplemental Indenture shall control.
Conflict with Indenture.
          SECTION 6.04. THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law.
          SECTION 6.05. All agreements of the Company in the Base Indenture, this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors.
Successors.
 
          SECTION 6.06. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
          SECTION 6.07. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes other than the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication. The recitals and statements herein and in the Notes are deemed to be those of the Company and not the Trustee. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use by the Company of the proceeds of the Notes.
Trustee Disclaimer.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties to this Supplemental Indenture have caused it to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED TO, OR REGISTERED OR EXCHANGED FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF, ANY PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF AND NO SUCH TRANSFER MAY BE REGISTERED, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE. EVERY NOTE AUTHENTICATED AND DELIVERED UPON REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER OF, OR IN EXCHANGE FOR OR IN LIEU OF, THIS NOTE SHALL BE A GLOBAL SECURITY SUBJECT TO THE FOREGOING, EXCEPT IN SUCH LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
          ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the "Company", which term includes any successor under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, promises to pay to [the order of []][if global notes: CEDE & CO.], or its registered assigns, the principal sum of [] DOLLARS ($[])[if global note: the amount set forth on the Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note attached hereto] on June 1, 2019.
 - 
 - 
 - 
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of the Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within mentioned Indenture.
 
1.
Principal and Interest.
          The Company promises to pay the principal of this Note on June 1, 2019.
          The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note on each Interest Payment Date, as set forth on the face of this Note, at the rate of 9.375% per annum.
          Interest will be payable semiannually (to the Holders of record of the Notes at the close of business on each Regular Record Date, as set forth on the face of this Note, immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date) on each Interest Payment Date, commencing December 1, 2009.
          Interest on this Note will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid on this Note (or, if there is no existing default in the payment of interest and if this Note is authenticated between a Regular Record Date and the next Interest Payment Date, from such Interest Payment Date) or, if no interest has been paid, from June 1, 2009. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
2.
Indenture.
          This Global Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes") issued under the Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture", and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee. Capitalized terms used herein are used as defined in the Indenture unless otherwise indicated. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act for a statement of all such terms. To the extent permitted by applicable law, in the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Note and the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Indenture will control.
          The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company. The Indenture limits the original aggregate principal amount of the Notes to $350,000,000, but additional Notes may be issued pursuant to the Indenture, and the originally issued Notes and all such additional Notes vote together for all purposes as a single class.
 
3.
Redemption and Repurchase; Discharge Prior to Redemption or Maturity.
          This Note is subject to redemption by the Company at any time, as further described in the Indenture. There is no sinking fund or mandatory redemption applicable to this Note.
          If the Company deposits with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Securities sufficient to pay the then Outstanding principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest on the Notes to redemption or maturity, the Company may in certain circumstances be discharged from the Indenture and the Notes or may be discharged from certain of its obligations under certain provisions of the Indenture.
4.
Registered Form; Denominations; Transfer; Exchange.
          The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 principal amount and any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. A Holder may register the transfer or exchange of Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Company or Security Registrar may require a Holder to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. Pursuant to the Indenture, there are certain periods during which the Company will not be required to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Note or certain portions of a Note.
5.
Defaults and Remedies.
          If an Event of Default (other than certain bankruptcy defaults), as defined in the Indenture, occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. If certain bankruptcy defaults with respect to the Company occur and are continuing, the Notes automatically become due and payable. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Notes. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of remedies.
6.
Amendment and Waiver.
          Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture and the Notes may be amended, or default may be waived, with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes. Without notice to or the consent of any Holder, the Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement the Indenture or the Notes to, among other things, cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency.
7.
Authentication.
          This Note is not valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
 
8.
Abbreviations.
          Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian) and U/G/M/A/ (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
The Company will furnish a copy of the Indenture to any Holder upon written request and without charge.
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below and have your signature guaranteed:
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
Signature Guarantee:
(Signature must be guaranteed by a participant in a recognized Signature Guarantee Medallion Program or other signature guarantor program reasonably acceptable to the Trustee)
 
          The initial principal amount of this Global SECURITY is $[]([] DOLLARS). The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:
 - 
 - 

Exhibit 4.3
 
 
 
     SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 2, 2009 (this ""), to the Indenture (defined below) between ALLEGHENY TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee under the Indenture (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
          WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009 (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of its Securities (as defined in the Base Indenture), to be issued in one or more series as therein provided ("");
Base Indenture
Securities
          WHEREAS, Sections 2.01, 3.01 and 9.01 of the Base Indenture provide that the Company, when authorized by an Establishment Action (as defined in the Base Indenture), and the Trustee may, without the consent of the Holders (as defined in the Base Indenture) of Securities, enter into one or more supplemental indentures, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series permitted by the Base Indenture;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Base Indenture, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009 (the ""), the Company duly authorized the creation and issuance of a series of its Securities designated as the 9.375% Senior Notes due 2019, of which $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount were issued and are Outstanding on the date hereof;
Base Indenture, as heretofore supplemented
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of its Securities to be known as its 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the ""), the form and substance of such Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture (together, the "");
Notes
Indenture
          WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized the creation and issuance of such Notes under the Base Indenture, and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture to supplement the Base Indenture and to provide certain additional provisions as hereinafter described; and
          WHEREAS, the Company has requested that the Trustee execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture, and all requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid instrument in accordance with its terms, and to make the Notes, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, the valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, and all acts and things necessary have been done and performed to make this Supplemental Indenture enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized in all respects.
 
          NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises contained herein, each party agrees for the benefit of each other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes, as follows:
          SECTION 1.01. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Base Indenture.
Capitalized Terms.
          SECTION 1.02. References in this Supplemental Indenture to article and section numbers shall be deemed to be references to article and section numbers of this Supplemental Indenture unless otherwise specified.
References.
          SECTION 1.03. For purposes of this Supplemental Indenture, the following terms have the meanings ascribed to them as follows:
Definitions.
          "" means all amounts, if any, payable pursuant to Section 6.02.
Additional Interest
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.04(a).
Additional Shares
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.02(l).
Adjustment Event
          "" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Base Indenture
          "" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Base Indenture, as heretofore supplemented
          "" means any person who is considered a beneficial owner of a security in accordance with Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the SEC under the Exchange Act.
Beneficial Owner
          "" means Clearstream Banking S.A.
Clearstream
          "" means the Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, of the Company existing on the Issue Date or any other shares of capital stock into which such Common Stock shall be reclassified or changed.
Common Stock
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01(b).
Company Notice
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01(b).
Company Notice Date
 
          "" means the office or agency appointed by the Company where Notes may be presented for conversion. The Conversion Agent shall initially be the Trustee.
Conversion Agent
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.01(a).
Conversion Date
          "" means, in respect of each $1,000 principal amount of Notes, $1,000 divided by the Conversion Rate, as may be adjusted from time to time as set forth herein.
Conversion Price
          "" means, in respect of each $1,000 principal amount of Notes, initially 23.9263 shares of Common Stock, subject to adjustment as set forth herein.
Conversion Rate
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 2.07.
Depositary
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.02(l).
Determination Date
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.04(c).
Effective Date
          "" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System.
Euroclear
          "" means the first date on which the shares of the Common Stock trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive the issuance or distribution in question.
Ex-Dividend Date
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.02(e).
Expiration Time
          "" means the amount that a willing buyer would pay a willing seller in an arm's length transaction.
Fair Market Value
          A "" shall be deemed to have occurred at the time after the Notes are originally issued that any of the following occurs:
Fundamental Change
     (1) a "" or "" within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act other than the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company or any employee benefit plans of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company files a Schedule 13D or Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) pursuant to the Exchange Act disclosing that such person has become the direct or indirect "Beneficial Owner," as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of the Company's common equity representing more than 50% of the voting power of all shares of the Company's common equity entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, unless such Beneficial Ownership arises as a result of a revocable proxy delivered in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act; that no person or group shall be deemed to be the Beneficial Owner of any securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on
person
group
provided
 
behalf of such person or group until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange under such offer;
     (2) consummation of (A) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of the Common Stock (other than changes resulting from a subdivision or combination) as a result of which the Common Stock would be converted into, or exchanged for, stock, other securities, other property or assets or (B) any statutory share exchange, consolidation or merger involving the Company pursuant to which the Common Stock shall be converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and the Company's Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person other than one or more of the Company's Subsidiaries, other than any transaction:
     (a) involving a consolidation or merger that does not result in a reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of the outstanding Common Stock;
     (b) where the Holders of more than 50% of all classes of the Company's common equity immediately prior to such transaction that is a statutory share exchange, consolidation or merger own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all classes of common equity of the continuing or surviving entity or transferee or the parent entity thereof immediately after such transaction; or
     (c) that is effected solely to change the Company's jurisdiction of incorporation and results in a reclassification, conversion or exchange of outstanding shares of Common Stock solely into shares of common stock of the surviving entity; or
     (3) the Common Stock (or other capital stock or American Depositary Receipts into which the Notes are then convertible pursuant to the terms of the Indenture) ceases to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market or the Nasdaq Global Market (or their respective successors);
, , that a Fundamental Change as a result of clause (2) above shall not be deemed to have occurred if 90% or more of the consideration received or to be received by the holders of Common Stock (excluding cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made pursuant to dissenters' appraisal rights) in connection with the transaction or transactions constituting the Fundamental Change consists of shares of capital stock or American Depositary Receipts traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market or the Nasdaq Global Market (or their respective successors) or which shall be so traded when issued or exchanged in connection with the transaction that would otherwise be a Fundamental Change (these securities being referred to as "") and as a result of this transaction or
provided
however
Publicly Traded Securities
 
transactions the Notes become convertible into such Publicly Traded Securities, excluding cash payments for fractional shares.
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01(a).
Fundamental Change Purchase Date
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01(c).
Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 4.01(a).
Fundamental Change Purchase Price
          "" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Indenture
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.02(d).
Initial Dividend Threshold
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 2.08(a).
Interest Payment Date
          "" means June 2, 2009.
Issue Date
          "" of the Common Stock on any Trading Day means the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and average ask prices) of the Common Stock on that Trading Day as reported in composite transactions for the principal United States national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed for trading on a United States national or regional securities exchange on the relevant Trading Day, the Last Reported Sale Price shall be the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant Trading Day as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization selected by the Company. If the Common Stock is not so listed or quoted, the Last Reported Sale Price shall be the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Company for such purpose.
Last Reported Sale Price
          "" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Notes
          "" means the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary of the Company.
Officer
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 2.07.
Paying Agent
          "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
          "" has the meaning provided in the definition of Fundamental Change in this Section 1.03.
Publicly Traded Securities
          "" means, in respect of a dividend or distribution to holders of Common Stock, the date fixed for determination of holders of Common Stock entitled to receive such dividend or distribution.
Record Date
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.03(a).
Reference Property
          "" for the payment of interest on the Notes (including Additional Interest, if any), means the May 15 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date on June 1 and the November 15 (whether or not a Business Day) immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date on December 1.
Regular Record Date
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.03(a).
Reorganization Event
          "" means a day that is scheduled to be a Trading Day on the primary securities exchange or market on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading. If the Common Stock is not so listed or admitted to trading, "" means a Business Day.
Scheduled Trading Day
Scheduled Trading Day
          "" has the meaning provided in the recitals.
Securities
          "" means the Trustee.
Security Registrar
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.01(a).
Settlement Date
          "" has the meaning provided in Section 5.02(c).
Spin-Off
          "" means June 1, 2014.
Stated Maturity Date
          "" means, with respect to a Fundamental Change, (i) if such Fundamental Change is a transaction described in clause (1) or (2) of the definition thereof and holders of Common Stock receive only cash as a result of such Fundamental Change, the cash amount paid per share of the Common Stock and (ii) in all other cases, the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Effective Date.
Stock Price
          "" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity owning a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or another governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both by the parent.
Subsidiary
parent
 
          "" has the meaning provided in the preamble.
Supplemental Indenture
          "" means a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the principal United States national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or admitted to trading or, if the Common Stock is not then listed or admitted to trading on a United States national or regional securities exchange, in the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded; , , that if the Common Stock is not so listed or traded, "" means a Business Day.
Trading Day
provided
however
Trading Day
          "" means the office or agency appointed by the Company to withhold the appropriate amount from any payment, to which withholding applies, made by the Company to a Holder in respect of the Notes. The Withholding Agent appointed by the Company shall initially be the Trustee.
Withholding Agent
          "" means United States dollars.
$
          SECTION 2.01. The Notes are hereby authorized and are designated the 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $402,500,000. The Notes issued on the date hereof pursuant to the terms of this Indenture shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $350,000,000, which amount shall be set forth in the Company Order for the authentication and delivery of the Notes pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Base Indenture. in addition, the Company may issue, from time to time in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture, additional Notes having the same terms and conditions as the Notes issued on the date hereof in all respects (except for the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of such additional Notes), so that such additional Notes shall be consolidated and form a single series with the Notes issued on the date hereof and shall be governed by the terms of the Indenture[; , , that any such additional Notes must be part of the same issue as the previously issued Notes for U.S. Federal income tax purposes].
Designation and Principal Amount.
provided
however
          SECTION 2.02. The principal amount of the Notes shall be payable on June 1, 2014.
Maturity.
          SECTION 2.03. The Notes issued under this Supplemental Indenture shall not be redeemable at the election of the Company prior to their Stated Maturity.
No Optional Redemption.
          SECTION 2.04. No sinking fund will be provided with respect to the Notes.
No Sinking Fund.
 
          SECTION 2.05. The Notes shall not be subject to Article XIII of the Base Indenture.
No Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance.
          SECTION 2.06. The Notes shall not be subject to Section 4.01(1)(B)of the Base Indenture.
Limited Satisfaction and Discharge.
          SECTION 2.07. The Notes shall be issued in substantially the form set forth on Exhibit A hereto and shall have the terms set forth in such form and shall initially be Global Securities for purposes of the Base Indenture. The Notes shall be issued in fully registered book-entry form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Form and Payment.
          The Depositary in respect of the Notes represented by Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company (""). The Global Securities representing the Notes shall be deposited with, or on behalf of, the Depositary and shall be registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co. Except as otherwise set forth in Section 3.05 of the Base Indenture, the Global Securities may be transferred, in whole and not in part, only to another nominee of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or its nominee.
DTC
          The Trustee shall act as Paying Agent for the Notes. The Company may choose to pay interest by mailing checks or making wire transfers. All money paid by the Company to any Paying Agent that remains unclaimed at the end of two years after the amount is due to Holders shall be repaid to the Company, subject to any applicable abandoned property laws. After such two-year period, Holders may look only to the Company for payment and not to the Trustee, any other Paying Agent or anyone else. The Company may also arrange for additional payment offices, and may cancel or change these offices, including any use of the Trustee's Corporate Trust Office. The Company may appoint and change the Paying Agent without prior notice to the Holders.
          SECTION 2.08. (a) Interest on the Notes shall accrue at the rate of 4.25% per annum from and including the date specified on the face of such Notes until the principal thereof is paid, deemed paid, or made available for payment. Interest on the Notes shall be payable semiannually in arrears on June 1 and December 1, commencing on December 1, 2009 (each an ""). Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. If any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date coinciding with the Stated Maturity Date or earlier required repurchase date upon a Fundamental Change) of a Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from the Interest Payment Date to the next succeeding Business Day. If the Stated Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, any required payments of interest and principal shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest (or Additional Interest) on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after the Stated Maturity Date to such next succeeding Business Day. If a Fundamental Change Purchase Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the Company shall purchase the Notes tendered for purchase on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest (or Additional
Interest.
Interest Payment Date
 
Interest) on such Notes shall accrue for the period from and after the earlier Fundamental Change Purchase Date to such next succeeding Business Day.
          (b) Holders of Notes at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on a Regular Record Date shall receive payment of interest (including any Additional Interest) payable on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion of such Notes at any time after 5:00 p.m., New York City time on such Regular Record Date. Notes surrendered for conversion during the period after 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on any Regular Record Date to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the corresponding Interest Payment Date must be accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the interest (including any Additional Interest) that the Holder is to receive on the Notes on such Interest Payment Date; , , that no such payment need be made (i) for conversions following the Regular Record Date immediately preceding the Stated Maturity Date; (ii) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Purchase Date that is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date or (iii) to the extent of any overdue interest (including any overdue Additional Interest), if any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Note. The Company's delivery to the Holder of the shares of Common Stock, together with any cash payment for any fractional shares into which a Note is convertible, shall be deemed to satisfy in full the Company's obligation to pay (i) the principal amount of the Note and (ii) accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to, but not including, the Conversion Date.
provided
however
          SECTION 4.01. (a)  If a Fundamental Change occurs at any time, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase any or all of the Holder's Notes, or any portion of the principal amount thereof, that is equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional Interest, if any, to but excluding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date (the ""); , , that if the Fundamental Change Purchase Date occurs after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, the Company shall pay accrued and unpaid interest plus Additional Interest, if any, to but excluding the Fundamental Change Purchase Date to the record Holder on the Regular Record Date corresponding to such Interest Payment Date and the Fundamental Change Purchase Price payable to the Holder who presents the Note for repurchase shall be 100% of the principal amount of such Note. The
Purchase of Notes at the Option of Holders upon a Fundamental Change.
Fundamental Change Purchase Price
provided
however
 
Fundamental Change Purchase Date shall be a Business Day specified by the Company that is no later than the 35th calendar day following the date of the Company Notice delivered in connection with such Fundamental Change pursuant to Section 4.01(b) (subject to extension to comply with applicable law, as provided in Section 4.02(d)) (the ""). Any Notes purchased by the Company shall be paid for in cash.
Fundamental Change Purchase Date
          (b) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered in accordance with the last paragraph of this Section 4.01(b), notice of the occurrence of a Fundamental Change and of the purchase rights arising as a result thereof (each, a "") to the Holders at their addresses shown in the Security Register maintained by the Security Registrar, and to the Trustee and the Paying Agent, on or before the 20th calendar day after the occurrence of the Fundamental Change (each such date of delivery, a ""). Each Company Notice shall include a form of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice to be completed by a Holder and shall state:
Notice of Fundamental Change.
Company Notice
Company Notice Date
     (i) the events causing the Fundamental Change;
     (ii) the date of the Fundamental Change;
     (iii) the last date on which a Holder may exercise its repurchase rights under Section 4.01;
     (iv) the Fundamental Change Purchase Price;
     (v) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date;
     (vi) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
     (vii) the applicable Conversion Rate and, if applicable, any adjustments to the applicable Conversion Rate as a result of such Fundamental Change;
     (viii) that the Notes with respect to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been delivered by a Holder may be converted only if the Holder withdraws the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in accordance with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture; and
     (ix) the procedures that a Holder must follow to require the Company to purchase its Notes pursuant to Section 4.01.
          Simultaneously with providing such Company Notice, the Company shall publish a notice containing the information in such Company Notice in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or publish such information on its then existing website or through such other public medium as it may use at that time.
          (c) For a Note to be so purchased at the option of the Holder, the Holder must deliver, on or before the Business Day immediately preceding
Exercise of Option.
 
the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, subject to extension to comply with applicable law, the Notes to be purchased, duly endorsed for transfer, together with a written purchase notice (a "") in the form entitled "Form of Fundamental Change Purchase Notice" on the reverse side of the Notes duly completed, to the Paying Agent. The Fundamental Change Purchase Notice must include the following information:
Fundamental Change Purchase Notice
     (i) if the Notes are certificated, the certificate numbers of the Holder's Notes to be delivered for purchase;
     (ii) the portion of the principal amount of the Holder's Notes to be purchased, which portion must be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof; and
     (iii) that the Holder's Notes shall be purchased as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date pursuant to applicable provisions of the Notes and this Supplemental Indenture.
          (d) The Company shall purchase from a Holder on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, subject to extension to comply with applicable law, pursuant to this Section 4.01, Notes if the principal amount of such Notes is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof if so requested by such Holder.
Procedures.
          The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all cash held by the Paying Agent for the payment of the Fundamental Change Purchase Price and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. If the Company or an Affiliate of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the cash held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to deliver all cash held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by the Paying Agent. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the cash delivered to the Trustee.
          SECTION 4.02. (a) Upon receipt by the Company of the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice specified in, and the Notes to be purchased as provided in, Section 4.01(c), the Holder of the Notes in respect of which such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in this Section 4.02(a)) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Fundamental Change Purchase Price with respect to such Notes. Such Fundamental Change Purchase Price shall be paid by the Paying Agent, solely from funds received from the Company for such purpose, to such Holder promptly following the later of (x) the Fundamental Change Purchase Date with respect to such Notes (provided the conditions in this Article IV have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery or book-entry transfer of such Notes to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 4.01. Notes in respect of which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted on or after the date of the delivery of such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice unless such Fundamental
Further Conditions and Procedures for Purchase at the Option of the Holder upon a Fundamental Change.
 
Change Purchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in this Section 4.02(a). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice contemplated by Section 4.01(c), shall have the right at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately prior to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date to withdraw such Fundamental Change Purchase Notice (in whole or in part) by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 4.02(a).
          The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Fundamental Change Purchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof.
          On or before 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) cash sufficient to pay the aggregate Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Notes to be purchased pursuant to Section 4.01. If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with the terms of this Supplemental Indenture, cash sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of such Notes on the second Business Day after the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, then (i) the Notes tendered for purchase and not withdrawn shall cease to be Outstanding, and interest, including Additional Interest, if any, shall cease to accrue on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date (whether or not book-entry transfer of such Notes is made or whether or not the Note is delivered to the Paying Agent); and (ii) all other rights of the Holders with respect to Notes tendered for purchase shall terminate on the Fundamental Change Purchase Date (other than the right to receive the Fundamental Change Purchase Price upon delivery or transfer of the Notes). Nothing herein shall preclude any withholding of tax required by law.
          A Fundamental Change Purchase Notice may be withdrawn, in whole or in part, by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately prior to the Fundamental Change Purchase Date. The notice of withdrawal shall state:
     (i) the principal amount of the withdrawn Notes;
     (ii) if certificated Notes have been issued, the certificate numbers of the withdrawn Notes, or if not certificated, the notice must comply with appropriate DTC, Clearstream and/or Euroclear procedures; and
     (iii) the principal amount, if any, which remains subject to the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice.
          If the Notes are certificated, the Paying Agent shall promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Notes with respect to which a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Supplemental Indenture.
          (b) Any Notes that are to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form
Notes Purchased in Part.
 
satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Notes, without service charge, a new Note or Notes, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Notes so surrendered which is not purchased.
          (c) In connection with any offer to purchase, or purchase of, Notes under Section 4.01, the Company shall, to the extent applicable, (a) comply with Rules 13e-4 and 14e-1 (and any successor provisions thereto) under the Exchange Act; (b) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act; and (c) otherwise comply with all applicable Federal and state securities laws. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture as described in this Article IV, compliance by the Company with such laws and regulations shall not in and of itself cause a breach of the Company's obligations described in this Article IV.
Compliance with Securities Laws upon Purchase of Notes.
          (d) The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash or property that remains unclaimed at the end of two years after the amount is due to Holders, together with interest that the Trustee or Paying Agent, as the case may be, has expressly agreed in writing to pay, if any, that is held by them for the payment of a Fundamental Change Purchase Price; , , that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash or property deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 4.02(b), as applicable, exceeds the aggregate Fundamental Change Purchase Price of the Notes or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, then promptly on and after the second Business Day following the Fundamental Change Purchase Date, the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return any such excess to the Company together with interest that the Trustee or Paying Agent, as the case may be, has expressly agreed in writing to pay, if any.
Repayment to the Company.
provided
however
          (e) At least three Business Days (or such lesser period as agreed to by the Trustee) before the Company Notice Date, the Company shall deliver an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee specifying whether the Company desires the Trustee to give the Company Notice required by Section 4.02(a) hereof.
Officers' Certificate.
          SECTION 5.01. Subject to the procedures for conversion set forth in this Article V and at any time prior to the close of business on the second Scheduled Trading Day preceding the Stated Maturity Date of the Notes, a Holder may convert its Notes at their full principal amount, or any portion of their principal amount that is equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, into shares of Common
Conversion of Notes.
 
Stock at the Conversion Rate in effect at the time of conversion. No payment or adjustment shall be made for dividends on, or other distributions with respect to, any Common Stock, except as expressly provided in this Article V.
          (a) The following procedures shall apply to convert Notes:
Conversion Procedures.
     (i) in respect of a beneficial interest in a Global Security, a Beneficial Owner must comply with the procedures of the Depositary for converting a beneficial interest in a Global Security and, if required pursuant to Section 2.08(b), pay funds equal to interest and Additional Interest payable on the next Interest Payment Date to which such Beneficial Owner is not entitled, and if required, pay all taxes or duties, if any; and
     (ii) in respect of a certificated Note, the Holder must (A) complete and manually sign the conversion notice on the back of the note, or a facsimile of the conversion notice; (B) deliver such conversion notice, which is irrevocable, and the Note to the Conversion Agent; (C) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents as may be required by the Conversion Agent; (D) if required pursuant to Section 5.02(c), pay all transfer or similar taxes; and (E) if required pursuant to Section 2.08(b), pay funds equal to interest and Additional Interest payable on the next Interest Payment Date to which such Holder is not entitled.
          The date a Holder complies with the foregoing requirements is the "" hereunder. At the Conversion Date the rights of the Holders of such converted Notes as Holders shall cease, and the Person or Persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such Common Stock as and after such time. The Company shall issue and shall deliver at such office or agency a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion, together with payment in cash in lieu of any fractional shares, as provided in Section 5.01(b), by the third Business Day immediately following the Conversion Date (the ""). A Holder may convert a portion of its Notes only if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof.
Conversion Date
Settlement Date
          In the case of any Note that is converted in part only, upon such conversion the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Note or Notes of authorized denominations in aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the principal amount of such Note.
          If a Holder has already delivered a Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in connection with a Fundamental Change, with respect to a Note, the Holder may not surrender that Note for conversion until the Holder has validly withdrawn the Fundamental Change Purchase Notice in accordance with this Supplemental Indenture.
 
          If more than one Note shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (or specified portions thereof) so surrendered.
          (b) The Company shall not issue fractional shares of Common Stock upon conversion of Notes. Instead the Company shall deliver cash, rounded to the nearest whole cent, for such fractional shares based on the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the applicable Conversion Date.
Cash Payments in Lieu of Fractional Shares.
          (c) If a Holder converts Notes, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon such conversion; , , the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares of Common Stock to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which shall be due because the shares are to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name, but the Conversion Agent shall have no duty to determine if any such tax is due. Nothing herein shall preclude any withholding of tax required by law.
Taxes on Conversion.
provided
however
          (d) (i) The Company shall, prior to issuance of any Notes hereunder, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock or shares of Common Stock held in treasury, sufficient number of shares of Common Stock, free of preemptive rights, to permit the conversion of the Notes, calculated assuming the maximum number of Additional Shares are issuable upon conversion of the Notes pursuant to Section 5.04.
Certain Covenants of the Company.
     (ii) All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Notes shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim.
     (iii) The Company shall endeavor to comply promptly with all applicable Federal and state securities laws regulating the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock upon the conversion of Notes.
     (iv) Before taking any action that would cause an adjustment increasing the Conversion Rate to an amount that would cause the Conversion Price to be reduced below the then par value per share of the Common Stock, if any, of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, the Company shall take all corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue shares of such Common Stock at such adjusted Conversion Rate.
 
          SECTION 5.02. The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Company as described below, except that the Company shall not make any adjustments to the Conversion Rate if Holders of the Notes participate (as a result of holding the Notes, and at the same time as holders of the Common Stock participate) in any of the transactions described in this Section 5.02 as if such Holders of the Notes held a number of shares of the Common Stock equal to the applicable Conversion Rate, multiplied by the principal amount (expressed in thousands) of Notes held by such Holders, without having to convert their Notes.
Adjustments to Conversion Rate.
          (a) If the Company issues shares of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution on shares of Common Stock, or if the Company effects a share split or share combination, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where,
CR = the conversion rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date of such dividend or distribution or the effective date of such share split or combination, as applicable;
0
CR = the conversion rate in effect immediately after such Ex-Dividend Date or effective date, as applicable;
1
OS = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Ex-Dividend Date or effective date, as applicable; and
0
OS = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Ex-Dividend Date or effective date, as applicable, after giving effect to such dividend, distribution, share split or share combination.
1
pro forma
          Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day following the Record Date for such dividend or distribution, or the date fixed for determination for such share split or share combination. The Company shall not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in treasury by the Company. If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 5.02(a) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
          (b) If the Company distributes to holders of all or substantially all the Common Stock any rights or warrants entitling them for a period of not more than 45 calendar days to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading-Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding
 
the date of announcement of such distribution, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where,
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution;
0
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after such Ex-Dividend Date;
1
OS = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such Ex-Dividend Date;
0
X = the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to such rights or warrants; and
Y = the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the aggregate price payable to exercise such rights or warrants divided by the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading-Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of the distribution of such rights or warrants.
          Such adjustment shall be successively made whenever any such rights or warrants are issued and shall become effective immediately after 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day following the date fixed for such determination. The Company shall not issue any such rights, options or warrants in respect of shares of Common Stock held in treasury by the Company. To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered after the expiration of such rights or warrants, or such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. If such rights or warrants are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants had not been fixed.
          In determining whether any rights or warrants entitle the Holders to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at less than such average Last Reported Sale Price, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights or warrants and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Company's Board of Directors.
 
          (c) If the Company distributes shares of its capital stock, evidences of its indebtedness or other assets or property of the Company to holders of all or substantially all the Common Stock, excluding:
     (i) dividends or distributions and rights or warrants referred to in Section 5.02(a) or (b) above;
     (ii) dividends or distributions paid exclusively in cash; and
     (iii) as described below in this Section 5.02(c) with respect to Spin-Offs,
then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
where,
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution;
0
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after such Ex-Dividend Date;
1
SP = the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading-Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution; and
0
FMV = the Fair Market Value (as determined by the Company's Board of Directors) of the shares of capital stock, evidences of indebtedness, assets or property distributed with respect to each outstanding share of Common Stock on the Record Date for such distribution.
          Such adjustment shall become effective immediately prior to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution. With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this clause (c) where there has been a payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock in shares of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit (a ""), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the effective date of such Spin-Off shall be increased based on the following formula:
Spin-Off
 
where,
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Effective Date of the Spin-Off;
0
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the effective date of the Spin-Off;
1
FMV = the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the capital stock or similar equity interest distributed to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock over the first 10 consecutive Trading-Day period from, and including, the effective date of the Spin- Off; and
0
MP = the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of Common Stock over the first 10 consecutive Trading-Day period from, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off.
0
          Such adjustment shall occur on the tenth Trading Day from, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off and shall be applied on a retroactive basis from, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off; , , that in respect of any conversion occurring prior to the effective date of the Spin-Off with respect to which the Settlement Date would occur during the 10 Trading Days from, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off, references with respect to the Spin-Off to the consecutive Trading-Day period shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the effective date of such Spin-Off and the Settlement Date in determining the applicable Conversion Rate.
provided
however
          (d) (i) If any regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution made to the holders of all or substantially all of the Common Stock is in excess of $0.18 per share (the ""), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
Initial Dividend Threshold
where,
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;
0
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;
1
SP = the Last Reported Sale Price of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution; and
0
 
C = the amount in cash per share distributed by the Company to holders of Common Stock in excess of the Initial Dividend Threshold.
          The Initial Dividend Threshold shall be adjusted at any time the Conversion Rate is adjusted in a manner inversely proportional to adjustments to the Conversion Rate; that no adjustment shall be made to the Initial Dividend Threshold for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate under this Section 5.02(d)(i).
provided
     (ii) If the Company pays any cash dividend or distribution that is not a regular, quarterly cash dividend or distribution to holders of all or substantially all of the Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
     where,
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;
0
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution;
1
SP = the Last Reported Sale Price of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such dividend or distribution; and
0
C = the amount in cash per share distributed by the Company to holders of Common Stock.
          (e) If the Company or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment in respect of a tender or exchange offer for Common Stock, to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (such last date, the ""), the Conversion Rate shall be increased based on the following formula:
Expiration Time
where,
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the effective date of the adjustment;
0
 
CR = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the effective date of the adjustment;
1
AC = the aggregate value of all cash and any other consideration (as determined by the Company's Board of Directors) paid or payable for shares accepted for purchase or exchange in such tender or exchange offer;
OS = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the date such tender or exchange offer expires;
0
OS = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the date such tender or exchange offer expires (after giving effect to the reduction of shares accepted for purchase or exchange in such tender or exchange offer); and
1
SP = the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of Common Stock over the 10 consecutive Trading-Day period commencing on the Trading Day next succeeding the date such tender or exchange offer expires.
1
          Such adjustment shall occur on the tenth Trading Day from, and including, the Trading Day next succeeding the date such tender or exchange offer expires and shall be applied on a retroactive basis from, and including, the Trading Day next succeeding the date such tender or exchange offer expires; , , that in respect of any conversion occurring prior to the date such tender or exchange offer expires with respect to which the Settlement Date would occur during the 10 Trading Days from, and including, the Trading Day next succeeding the date such tender or exchange offer expires, references with respect to the tender or exchange offer to the 10 consecutive Trading Day period shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of Trading Days as have elapsed between the Trading Day next succeeding the date such tender or exchange offer expires and the Settlement Date in determining the applicable Conversion Rate.
provided
however
          If the Company is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but the Company is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made.
          Except as stated herein, the Company shall not adjust the Conversion Rate for the issuance of shares of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock or the right to purchase shares of Common Stock or such convertible or exchangeable securities.
          (f) The Company may (but is not required to) increase the Conversion Rate to avoid or diminish income tax to holders of Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock in connection with a dividend or distribution of shares (or rights to acquire shares) or any similar event treated as such for income tax purposes.
 
          (g) To the extent permitted by applicable law and the rules of any stock exchange or market upon which the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading, the Company may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for a period of at least 20 days if the Company's Board of Directors determines that such increase would be in the best interest of the Company, which determination shall be conclusive.
          (h) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5.02, the applicable Conversion Rate will not be adjusted:
     (i) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the securities of the Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan;
     (ii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
     (iii) upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security not described in clause (ii) above and outstanding as of the Issue Date;
     (iv) for a change in the par value of the Common Stock; or
     (v) for accrued and unpaid interest (including Additional Interest, if any).
          (i) All calculations under this Section 5.02 shall be made by the Company and shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a share, as the case may be. The Company shall not be required to make an adjustment in the Conversion Rate unless the adjustment would require a change of at least 1% in the Conversion Rate; , , that the Company shall carry forward any adjustments that are less than 1% of the Conversion Rate that the Company elects not to make and take them into account upon the earlier of (i) any conversion of Notes or (ii) such time as all adjustments that have not been made prior thereto would have the effect of adjusting the Conversion Rate by at least 1%. Except as provided in this Section 5.02 and Sections 5.03 and 5.04, the Company shall not adjust the Conversion Rate.
provided
however
          (j) Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as provided in this Supplemental Indenture, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. Unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee such Officers' Certificate, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Conversion Rate and may assume that the last Conversion Rate of which it has knowledge is still in effect. Promptly after delivery of such certificate, the Company shall prepare a notice of such
 
adjustment of the Conversion Rate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate and the date on which such adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate to the Holder of each Note at such Holder's last address appearing on the Security Register. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
          (k) In any case in which this Section 5.02 provides that an adjustment shall become effective immediately after (i) an Ex-Dividend Date for an event, (ii) the date fixed for the determination of a share split or combination pursuant to Section 5.02(a), or (iii) the Expiration Time for any tender or exchange offer pursuant to Section 5.02(e), (each a ""), the Company may elect to defer until the occurrence of the applicable Adjustment Event (x) issuing to the Holder of any Note converted after such Determination Date and before the occurrence of such Adjustment Event, the Additional Shares of Common Stock or other securities issuable upon such conversion by reason of the adjustment required by such Adjustment Event over and above the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion before giving effect to such adjustment and (y) paying to such Holder any amount in cash in lieu of such Additional Shares of Common Stock or other securities or in lieu of any fraction pursuant to Section 5.01(b). For purposes of this Section 5.02, the term "" shall mean:
Determination Date
Adjustment Event
     (1) in any case referred to in clause (i) above, the occurrence of such event,
     (2) in any case referred to in clause (ii) above, the date any such dividend or distribution is paid or made, and
     (3) in any case referred to in clause (iii) above, the date a sale or exchange of Common Stock pursuant to such tender or exchange offer is consummated and becomes irrevocable.
          (l) For purposes of this Section 5.02, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock. The Company shall not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company.
          (m) Whenever any provision of this Article V requires a calculation of an average of Last Reported Sale Prices over a span of multiple days, the Company shall make appropriate adjustments (determined in good faith by the Company's Board of Directors) to account for any adjustment to the Conversion Rate that becomes effective at any time during the period from which the average is to be calculated. Such adjustments shall be effective as of the Effective Date of the adjustment to the Conversion Rate.
          SECTION 5.03. (a)  If any of the following events occur: (i) any recapitalization, reclassification or change of the Common Stock (other than a subdivision or combination) as a result of
Effect of Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale.
 
which the Common Stock would be converted into, or exchanged for, stock, other securities or other property or assets (or any combination thereof) or (ii) any statutory share exchange, consolidation or merger involving the Company pursuant to which the Common Stock shall be converted into cash, securities or other property (or any combination thereof) or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of related transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person (other than one or more of the Subsidiaries of the Company) as a result of which the Common Stock shall be converted into cash, securities or other property (or any combination thereof) (any such event or transaction, a ""), then the Company or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture) providing that at the effective time of the Reorganization Event each Note shall be convertible into, with respect to each $1,000 in principal amount of such Note, the kind and amount of shares of stock, other securities or other property or assets (including cash or any combination thereof) that a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate immediately prior to such Reorganization Event would have owned or been entitled to receive upon such Reorganization Event (the ""). For purposes of the foregoing, the type and amount of consideration that a holder of Common Stock would have been entitled to receive in the case of any such Reorganization Event that causes the Common Stock to be converted into the right to receive more than a single type of consideration (determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election) shall be deemed to be the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock that affirmatively make such an election. Such supplemental indenture shall provide for provisions and adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the provisions and adjustments provided for in this Article V and in Article IV of this Supplemental Indenture and in the definition of "" herein, as appropriate, as determined in good faith by the Company (which determination shall be conclusive), to make such provisions apply to such other Person if different from the original issuer of the Notes. If, in the case of any Reorganization Event, the cash, securities or other property receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock includes cash, securities or other property of a Person other than the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, in such Reorganization Event, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Holders of the Notes as the Company's Board of Directors shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing.
Reorganization Event
Reference Property
Fundamental Change
          (b) The Company shall cause notice of the execution of any supplemental indenture required by this Section 5.03 to be mailed to each Holder of Notes, at its address appearing on the Security Register, within 20 calendar days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture.
          (c) The above provisions of this Section 5.03 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events.
 
          (d) None of the foregoing provisions shall affect the right of a Holder of Notes to convert the Notes into shares of Common Stock as set forth in Section 5.02 prior to the effective time of such Reorganization Event.
          SECTION 5.04. (a)  If a Holder elects to convert Notes at a time when a Fundamental Change has occurred, the Conversion Rate for such Notes so converted shall be increased by an additional number of shares of Common Stock (the "") as described below. Any conversion of Notes shall be deemed to have occurred in connection with such Fundamental Change only if (i) in the case of a Fundamental Change described in clause (2) of the definition of Fundamental Change, such Notes are surrendered for conversion from and after the date that is 30 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated Effective Date of such Fundamental Change through and including the Business Day immediately preceding the related Fundamental Change Purchase Date, or (ii) in the case of a Fundamental Change described in clause (1) or (3) of the definition of Fundamental Change, such Notes are surrendered for conversion from and after the Effective Date of such Fundamental Change through and including the Business Day immediately preceding the related Fundamental Change Purchase Date. The Company shall notify Holders and issue a press release (x) at least 30 Scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated Effective Date of any Fundamental Change described in clause (2) of the definition of Fundamental Change and (y) no later than five Business Days after the Effective Date of any other Fundamental Change.
Adjustment upon Certain Fundamental Changes.
Additional Shares
          (b) Upon surrender of Notes for conversion in connection with a Fundamental Change, the Company shall deliver to a converting Holder shares of Common Stock, including Additional Shares, in accordance with Section 5.04(e) below. If the consideration for the Common Stock in any Fundamental Change described in clause (2) of the definition of Fundamental Change is comprised entirely of cash, for any conversion of Notes following the Effective Date of such Fundamental Change, the conversion obligation shall be calculated based solely on the "" for the transaction and shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the applicable Conversion Rate (including any adjustment to the Conversion Rate described in this Section 5.04) multiplied by such Stock Price. In such event, the conversion obligation shall be determined and paid to Holders in cash on the third Business Day following the conversion date.
Stock Price
          (c) The number of Additional Shares by which the Conversion Rate shall be increased shall be determined by reference to the table attached as Schedule A hereto, based on the date on which the Fundamental Change occurs or becomes effective (the "") and the Stock Price paid or deemed paid per share of Common Stock in the Fundamental Change. If a Holder elects to convert its Notes prior to the Effective Date of any Fundamental Change, and the Fundamental Change does not occur, such Holder shall not be entitled to an increased Conversion Rate in connection with such conversion.
Effective Date
          (d) The Stock Prices set forth in the column headings of the table in Schedule A hereto and in clauses (ii) and (iii) of the immediately succeeding paragraph
 
shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Notes is adjusted pursuant to Section 5.02. The adjusted Stock Prices shall equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to such adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Additional Shares set forth in such table shall be adjusted in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 5.02.
          The exact Stock Prices and Effective Dates may not be set forth in the table in Schedule A, in which case:
     (i) if the Stock Price is between two Stock Price amounts in the table or the Effective Date is between two Effective Dates in the table, the number of Additional Shares by which the Conversion Rate shall be increased shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Additional Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Price amounts and the two dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year;
     (ii) if the Stock Price is greater than $150.00 per share (subject to adjustment), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate; and
     (iii) if the Stock Price is less than $32.15 per share (subject to adjustment), no Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion exceed 31.1041 per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustments in the same manner as the Conversion Rate under Section 5.02.
          (e) Upon effectiveness of any Fundamental Change described under clause (2) of the definition of Fundamental Change, the Notes will be convertible only into Reference Property, if applicable. If the Company is required to increase the Conversion Rate for Notes converted in connection with such Fundamental Change by Additional Shares as a result of the Fundamental Change, Notes so surrendered for conversion shall be settled as follows: (i) if the date on which the Notes are surrendered for conversion is prior to the third Trading Day immediately preceding the Effective Date of the Fundamental Change, the Company shall (A) deliver the amount of shares of Common Stock, based on the Conversion Rate then in effect without regard to the number of Additional Shares to be added to the Conversion Rate as described above in this Section 5.04, on the third Trading Day immediately following the applicable Conversion Date; and (B) as soon as practicable following the Effective Date of the Fundamental Change, deliver an amount of Reference Property equal to the amount of Reference Property that would have been issuable in respect of the Additional Shares pursuant to such Fundamental Change; and (ii) if the date on which the Notes are surrendered for conversion is on or after the third Trading Day immediately preceding the Effective Date of the Fundamental Change, the Company shall deliver an amount of Reference Property equal to the amount of Reference Property that would have been
 
issuable upon conversion of the Notes immediately after giving effect to the Fundamental Change based on the Conversion Rate as increased by the Additional Shares on the Settlement Date.
          SECTION 5.05. To the extent that the Company has a rights plan in effect upon conversion of the Notes into Common Stock, Holders that convert their Notes shall receive, in addition to the Common Stock, the rights under the rights plan, unless prior to any conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, in which case, and only in such case, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Company distributed to all holders of Common Stock shares of the Company's capital stock evidences of indebtedness or assets as described in Section 5.02(b) above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights. In lieu of any such adjustment, the Company may amend such applicable stockholder rights agreement to provide that upon conversion of the Notes the Holders shall receive, in addition to the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, the rights which would have attached to such Common Stock if the rights had not become separated from the Common Stock under such applicable stockholder rights agreement.
Stockholder Rights Plan.
          SECTION 5.06. The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article V should be made, how it should be made or what it should be or to otherwise calculate the Conversion Price, and shall be protected in relying upon an Officers' Certificate with request to same. The Trustee has no duty to determine whether a supplemental indenture under Section 5.03 need be entered into or whether any provisions of any supplemental indenture are correct. The Trustee shall not be accountable for and makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Notes. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to make any cash payment or to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock or share certificates or other securities or property upon the surrender of any Security for the purpose of conversion or otherwise comply with this Article V. Each Conversion Agent (other than the Company or an affiliate of the Company) shall have the same protection under this Section 5.06 as the Trustee.
Trustee Adjustment Disclaimer.
          SECTION 6.01. In addition to the Events of Default set forth in Section 5.01 of the Base Indenture, each of the following shall also constitute Events of Default:
Additional Events of Default.
     (i) a failure by the Company to convert the Notes in accordance with the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture upon exercise of a Holder's conversion right which default shall continue for a period of three Business Days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or
 
by such Holder, a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" under this Supplemental Indenture;
Notice of Default
     (ii) a failure by the Company to deliver a Company Notice when due;
     (iii) a failure by the Company to repurchase Notes of such series tendered for repurchase following the occurrence of a Fundamental Change in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Supplemental Indenture; and
     (iv) a failure by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to pay any indebtedness for borrowed money, within any applicable grace period after final maturity or the acceleration by the holders thereof, if the total amount of such indebtedness unpaid or accelerated exceeds $50,000,000.
          SECTION 6.02. Notwithstanding anything in this Supplemental Indenture or the Base Indenture to the contrary, to the extent elected by the Company, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to the failure by the Company to comply with the reporting obligations set forth in Section 7.04 of the Base Indenture and for any failure to comply with the requirements of Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act shall, for the first 120 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default, consist exclusively of the right of Holders to receive additional interest on the Notes at an annual rate equal to 0.50% of the principal amount of the Notes (the ""). If the Company so elects, such Additional Interest shall be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated interest payable on the Notes. The Additional Interest shall accrue on all Outstanding Notes from and including the date on which the Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with the reporting obligations in the Base Indenture or the failure to comply with the requirements of Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act first occurs to but not including the 120th day thereafter (or such earlier date on which such Event of Default is cured or waived by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes). On such 120th day (or earlier, if the Event of Default relating to the reporting obligations under the Base Indenture or the failure to comply with the requirements of Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act is cured or waived by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes prior to such 120th day), such Additional Interest shall cease to accrue and, if the Event of Default relating to reporting obligations or the failure to comply with Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act has not been cured or waived prior to such 120th day, the Notes shall be subject to acceleration as provided in the Base Indenture. The provisions of this Section 6.02 shall not affect the rights of Holders of Notes in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default. In the event the Company does not elect to pay the Additional Interest upon an Event of Default in accordance with this Section 6.02, the Notes shall be subject to acceleration as provided in the Base Indenture. In order to elect to pay the Additional Interest on the Notes as the sole remedy during the first 120 days after the occurrence of an Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with the reporting obligations in Section 7.04 of the Base Indenture or the failure to comply with Section 314(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act in accordance with this Section 6.02, the Company must notify all Holders of Notes, the
Exception to Remedies.
Additional Interest
 
Trustee and the Paying Agent of such election on or before the close of business on the date on which such Event of Default first occurs, stating (i) the amount of such Additional Interest that is payable and (ii) the date on which such Additional Interest is payable.
          SECTION 7.01. (a)  In addition to the provisions set forth in Section 9.01 and Section 9.02 of the Base Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may, without the consent of the Holders, enter into one or more supplemental indentures to conform the provisions of the Indenture or the Notes to the Description of the Notes provided in the final prospectus supplement of the Company for the Notes dated May 27, 2009 and filed with the Commission.
Modification and Amendment.
          (b) In addition to the provisions set forth in Section 9.01 and Section 9.02 of the Base Indenture, without the consent of each Holder of an Outstanding Note affected thereby, the Company and the Trustee may not:
     (i) make any change that adversely affects the conversion rights of any Note; or
     (ii) reduce the Fundamental Change Purchase Price of any Note or amend or modify in any manner adverse to the holders of Notes the Company's obligation to make such payment, whether through an amendment or waiver of provisions in the covenants, definitions or otherwise.
          SECTION 8.01. The Base Indenture, as heretofore supplemented, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Base Indenture, as heretofore supplemented, in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Ratification of Base Indenture.
          SECTION 8.02. The provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall take effect immediately upon its execution in accordance with Section 9.04 of the Base Indenture; , , that the provisions set forth in this Supplemental Indenture shall apply only in respect of the Notes issued under this Supplemental Indenture and not to any past or future series of Securities established under the Base Indenture or any other supplemental indenture.
Application of Supplemental Indenture.
provided
however
 
          SECTION 8.03. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by Sections 310 through 317 of the Trust Indenture Act, the imposed duties shall control.
Trust Indenture Act Controls.
          SECTION 8.04. To the extent not expressly amended or modified by this Supplemental Indenture, the Base Indenture shall remain in full force and effect. If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture relating to the Notes is inconsistent with any provision of the Base Indenture, as heretofore supplemented, the provision of this Supplemental Indenture shall control.
Conflict with Base Indenture.
          SECTION 8.05. (a)  The Company (through the Withholding Agent or otherwise) shall be entitled to reduce or otherwise set-off against any payments made or deemed made by the Company to Holders in respect of the Notes or the Common Stock for any amounts the Company believes it is required to withhold by law. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Company pays any withholding taxes on behalf of a Holder as a result of an adjustment to the Conversion Rate of the Notes, the Company may, at its option, set-off such payments against payments to such Holder of cash and Common Stock in respect of the Notes. Any amounts withheld pursuant to this Section 8.06 shall be paid over by the Company (through the Withholding Agent or otherwise) to the appropriate taxing authority.
Withholding Offset.
          (b) Prior to or upon the occurrence of any event that results in an actual or deemed payment by the Company to Holders in respect of the Notes or the Common Stock, the Company (through the Trustee, Paying Agent, Withholding Agent or otherwise) may request a Holder to furnish any appropriate documentation that may be required in order to determine the Company's withholding obligations under applicable law (including, without limitation, a United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-9, Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI, as appropriate).
          SECTION 8.06. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Company shall make all calculations called for in respect of the Notes. These calculations include, but are not limited to, determinations of the Last Reported Sale Price, accrued interest payable on the Notes and the Conversion Rate. The Company shall make all calculations in good faith and, absent manifest error, such calculations shall be final and binding on the Holders. The Company shall provide a schedule of its calculations to each of the Trustee and the Conversion Agent, and each of the Trustee and Conversion Agent is entitled to rely conclusively upon the accuracy of such calculations without independent verification. The Trustee shall forward the Company's calculations to any Holder upon such Holder's request.
Calculations in Respect of Notes.
          SECTION 8.07. THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law.
          SECTION 8.08. All agreements of the Company in the Base Indenture, as heretofore supplemented, this Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successors.
Successors.
 
          SECTION 8.09. This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
          SECTION 8.10. The Company hereby appoints the Trustee as Conversion Agent, and the Trustee hereby accepts such appointment.
Appointment of Conversion Agent.
          SECTION 8.11. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes other than the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication. The recitals and statements herein and in the Notes are deemed to be those of the Company and not the Trustee. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use by the Company of the proceeds of the Notes.
Trustee Disclaimer.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties to this Supplemental Indenture have caused it to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
Schedule A
          The following table sets forth the hypothetical stock price and the number of Additional Shares to be received per $1,000 principal amount of Notes:
 
Exhibit A
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE ""), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN.
DEPOSITARY
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED TO, OR REGISTERED OR EXCHANGED FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF, ANY PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF AND NO SUCH TRANSFER MAY BE REGISTERED, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE. EVERY NOTE AUTHENTICATED AND DELIVERED UPON REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER OF, OR IN EXCHANGE FOR OR IN LIEU OF, THIS SECURITY SHALL BE A GLOBAL SECURITY SUBJECT TO THE FOREGOING, EXCEPT IN SUCH LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
 
No.
                    
CUSIP No. ISIN No.
                    
                    
     Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to [the order of []] [if Global Securities, CEDE & CO.], or its registered assigns, the principal sum of $[] ([] Dollars) on June 1, 2014, and to pay interest thereon from and including June 2, 2009 or from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year, commencing December 1, 2009, at the rate of 4.25% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be on May 15 or November 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Company
                    
                    
                    
                    
                     
     Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated by it for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register; , , that any such payment in respect of a Global Security shall be made by wire transfer of same-day funds to the applicable Depositary.
provided
however
provided further
however
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
2
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
3
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by its duly authorized officers.
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within mentioned Indenture.
 
4
1.
Indenture
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of June 1, 2009 (the ""), as heretofore supplemented, include as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 2, 2009 (the "", and together with the Base Indenture as so supplemented, the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (herein called the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. If any provision of this Security is inconsistent with any provision of the Indenture, the provision in the Indenture shall control. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof.
Securities
Base Indenture
Second Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Trustee
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
2.
No Optional Redemption; No Sinking Fund; No Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
     The Securities are not subject to redemption at the election of the Company. The Securities are not subject to a sinking fund or mandatory redemption. The Securities are not subject to Article XIII of the Base Indenture.
3.
Purchase of Securities at the Option of Holders upon a Fundamental Change
     If a Fundamental Change occurs at any time, subject to the provisions set forth in the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase all of such Security, or any portion of the principal amount thereof, that is equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, at the Fundamental Change Purchase Price specified in the Indenture. Article IV of the Second Supplemental Indenture sets forth the procedures, obligation, conditions and other terms of such repurchase option upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change.
4.
Conversion
     Subject to the procedures for conversion set forth in Article V of the Second Supplemental Indenture and at any time prior to the close of business on the second Scheduled Trading Day preceding the Stated Maturity Date of the Securities, a Holder may convert its Securities at their full principal amount, or any portion of their principal amount that is equal to
 
5
$1,000 or an integral multiple thereof, into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Rate then in effect at the time of conversion.
5.
Amendment; Waiver
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
6.
Remedies
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
7.
Registered Form; Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any Place of Payment, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain
 
6
limitations therein set forth, Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company or the Security Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
8.
Limited Satisfaction and Discharge
     The Securities are not subject to Section 4.01(1)(B) of the Base Indenture.
9.
Abbreviations
     Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian) and U/G/M/A/ (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
10.
Governing Law
     THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below and have your signature guaranteed:
I or we assign and transfer this Security to:
agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
          The initial principal amount of this Global Security is $[] ([] DOLLARS). The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:
                    
                    
                     
 
To: Allegheny Technologies Incorporated
The undersigned registered Holder of this Security hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the "") as to the occurrence of a Fundamental Change with respect to the Company and requests and instructs the Company to repurchase this Security, or the portion hereof (which is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) designated below, in accordance with the terms of the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture referred to in this Security and directs that the check or wire or other electronic funds transfer of the Company in payment for this Security or the portion thereof and any portion of this Security representing any unrepurchased principal amount hereof be issued and delivered to the registered Holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. If any portion of this Security not repurchased is to be issued in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned shall pay all transfer taxes payable with respect thereto.
Company
Principal amount to be converted (if less than all):
$
                    
                    
Certificate number (if Securities in certificated form):
                    
                    
                    
Fill in if a check is to be issued, or Securities are to be issued, other than to and in the name of registered holder:
 
To: Allegheny Technologies Incorporated
The undersigned registered Holder of this Security hereby exercises the option to convert this Security, or portion hereof (which is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) designated below, for shares of the Common Stock of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated, in accordance with the terms of the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture referred to in this Security, and directs that the shares issuable and deliverable upon such conversion, cash in lieu of fractional shares and any portion of this Security representing any unconverted principal amount hereof, be issued and delivered to the registered Holder hereof unless a different name has been indicated below. If shares or any portion of this Security not converted are to be issued in the name of a Person other than the undersigned, the undersigned shall pay all transfer taxes payable with respect thereto. Any amount required to be paid by the undersigned on account of interest accompanies this Security. The undersigned acknowledges that the conversion of the specified Securities is subject to the requirements established by the Company in the Second Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture, as applicable, as well as the procedures of any Depositary, each as in effect from time to time.
This notice shall be deemed to be an irrevocable exercise of the option to convert this Security.
Principal amount to be converted (if less than all):
$[]
                    
                    
Fill in if a check is to be issued, or Securities are to be issued, other than to and in the name of registered holder:

Exhibit 10.1
     This First Amendment to Credit Agreement is dated May 29, 2009, by and among ATI Funding Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("ATI Funding"), TDY Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("TDYH") (ATI Funding and TDYH are each, a "Borrower" and collectively, the "Borrowers"), the Guarantors (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined)) party hereto, the Lenders (as hereinafter defined) party hereto and PNC Bank, National Association ("PNC Bank") as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent") (the "First Amendment").
     WHEREAS, the Borrowers, the Guarantors, PNC Bank and various other financial institutions party thereto (PNC Bank and such other financial institutions are each, a "Lender" and collectively, the "Lenders") and the Administrative Agent entered into that certain Credit Agreement, dated July 31, 2007 (as amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"); and
     WHEREAS, the Borrowers and the Guarantors desire to amend certain provisions of the Credit Agreement and the Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall permit such amendments pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises contained herein and other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1. All capitalized terms used herein that are defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the same meaning herein as in the Credit Agreement unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
     2. Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete therefrom the following definition:
     
Leverage Ratio (Pricing)
     3. Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by restating the following definitions in their entirety as set forth below:
      shall mean, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the highest of (i) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (ii) the Federal Funds Open Rate in effect on such day plus one half of one percent (0.50%) and (iii) the Daily LIBOR Rate plus one percent (1.00%).
Base Rate
      for any period of determination shall mean the sum of (i) net income (or loss) (excluding extraordinary gains or losses including, without limitation, those items created by
Consolidated EBIT
 
mandated changes in accounting treatment), plus (ii) net interest expense, (iii) plus all charges against or minus credits to income for federal, state and local taxes, (iv) plus or minus, as applicable, any other non-cash non-recurring items of gain or loss with respect to such fiscal period not already excluded hereunder, (v) plus or minus, as applicable, any non-cash pension expense or income, provided, however, that voluntary pension contributions shall not be included in calculating pension expense or income, in each case of ATI and its Subsidiaries for such period determined and consolidated in accordance with GAAP.
      shall mean (a) Consolidated Total Indebtedness minus (b) (i) cash that is not subject to a Lien, plus (ii) Permitted Investments that are not subject to a Lien, minus (iii) Fifty Million and 00/100 Dollars ($50,000,000.00), in each case determined and consolidated for ATI and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Indebtedness
      shall mean as of the date of determination, the ratio of (A) Consolidated Net Indebtedness on such date to (B) Consolidated EBITDA (i) for the four (4) fiscal quarters ending if such date is a fiscal quarter end or (ii) for the four (4) fiscal quarters most recently ended if such date is not a fiscal quarter end.
Leverage Ratio
      shall mean this Agreement, the Administrative Agent's Letter, the First Amendment Administrative Agent's Letter, the Guaranty Agreements, the Intercompany Subordination Agreement, the Notes, the Letters of Credit and any other instruments, certificates or documents delivered in connection herewith or therewith, as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance herewith or therewith, and shall mean any of the Loan Documents.
Loan Documents
Loan Document
     4. Section 1.2 of the Credit Agreement is hereby further amended by inserting the following defined terms in appropriate alphabetical order:
      shall mean, for any day, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent by dividing (x) the Published Rate by (y) a number equal to 1.00 minus the Libor Rate Reserve Percentage.
Daily Libor Rate
      shall mean that certain Administrative Agent's fee letter dated the First Amendment Closing Date by and between the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and PNC Capital Markets LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company.
First Amendment Administrative Agent's Letter
 
      shall mean May 29, 2009.
First Amendment Closing Date
      shall mean the base commercial lending rate of PNC Bank as publicly announced to be in effect from time to time, such rate to be adjusted automatically, without notice, on the effective date of any change in such rate. This rate of interest is determined from time to time by PNC Bank as a means of pricing some loans to its customers and is neither tied to any external rate of interest or index nor does it necessarily reflect the lowest rate of interest actually charged by PNC Bank to any particular class or category of customers of PNC Bank.
Prime Rate
      shall mean, the rate of interest published each Business Day in The Wall Street Journal "Money Rates" listing under the caption "London Interbank Offered Rates" for a one (1) month period (or, if no such rate is published therein for any reason, then the Published Rate shall be the eurodollar rate for a one (1) month period as published in another publication determined by the Administrative Agent).
Published Rate
     5. The references to "three hundred sixty five (365) or three hundred sixty six (366) days, as the case may be," in Section 3.1.1(i) of the Credit Agreement and Section 3.1.2 of the Credit Agreement are hereby deleted in their entirety and in their stead are inserted the following: "three hundred sixty (360) days".
     6.  to the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and in its stead is inserted attached hereto.
Schedule 1.1(A)
Schedule 1.1(A)
     7.  to the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and in its stead is inserted attached hereto.
Exhibit 7.3.3
Exhibit 7.3.3
     8. The provisions of Sections 2 through 7 of this First Amendment shall not become effective until the Administrative Agent has received the following items, each in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent and its counsel:
     (a) this First Amendment, duly executed by each of the Loan Parties and the Required Lenders;
     (b) the documents listed in the Preliminary Closing Agenda set forth on attached hereto and made a part hereof and evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that all conditions set forth in such Preliminary Closing Agenda have been satisfied;
Exhibit A
     (c) payment of all fees and expenses owed to the Lenders, the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent's counsel in connection with this First Amendment; and
 
     (d) such other documents as may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent.
     9. Each Loan Party hereby reconfirms and reaffirms all representations and warranties, agreements and covenants made by it pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, except as such representations and warranties, agreements and covenants may have heretofore been amended, modified or waived in writing in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
     10. Each Loan Party acknowledges and agrees that each and every document, instrument or agreement, which at any time has secured the Obligations including, without limitation, the Guaranty Agreements, hereby continues to secure the Obligations.
     11. Each Loan Party hereby represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that (i) such Loan Party has the legal power and authority to execute and deliver this First Amendment, (ii) the officers of such Loan Party executing this First Amendment have been duly authorized to execute and deliver the same and bind such Loan Party with respect to the provisions hereof, (iii) the execution and delivery hereof by such Loan Party and the performance and observance by such Loan Party of the provisions hereof and of the Credit Agreement and all documents executed or to be executed therewith, do not violate or conflict with the organizational agreements of such Loan Party or any law applicable to such Loan Party or result in a breach of any provision of or constitute a default under any other agreement, instrument or document binding upon or enforceable against such Loan Party, and (iv) this First Amendment, the Credit Agreement and the documents executed or to be executed by such Loan Party in connection herewith or therewith constitute valid and binding obligations of such Loan Party in every respect, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
     12. Each Loan Party represents and warrants that (i) no Event of Default exists under the Credit Agreement, nor will any occur as a result of the execution and delivery of this First Amendment or the performance or observance of any provision hereof, (ii) the schedules attached to and made a part of the Credit Agreement, are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof, except as such schedules may have heretofore been amended or modified or updated in writing in accordance with the Credit Agreement, and (iii) it presently has no known claims or actions of any kind at law or in equity against any Lender or the Administrative Agent arising out of or in any way relating to the Credit Agreement or the other Loan Documents.
     13. Each reference to the Credit Agreement that is made in the Credit Agreement or any other document executed or to be executed in connection therewith shall hereafter be construed as a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
     14. The agreements contained in this First Amendment are limited to the specific agreements made herein. Except as amended hereby, all of the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect. This First Amendment amends the Credit Agreement and is not a novation thereof.
 
     15. This First Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the different parties hereto on separate counterparts each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
     16. This First Amendment shall be governed by, and shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, the Laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania without regard to the principles of the conflicts of law thereof. Each Loan Party hereby consents to the jurisdiction and venue of the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania and the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania with respect to any suit arising out of or mentioning this First Amendment.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto have caused this First Amendment to be duly executed by their duly authorized officers the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Pittsburgh, PA, June 1, 2009 Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE:ATI) announced today that it has completed its previously announced public offering of senior notes due 2019. The offering was made pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the offering, ATI issued and sold $350,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 9.375% Senior Notes due 2019 (the "Senior Notes"). ATI intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Senior Notes to purchase any and all of its outstanding 8.375% Notes due 2011 (the "8.375% Notes") pursuant to the terms of a tender offer by ATI for those 8.375% Notes. As of today, there were $300 million in aggregate principal amount of 8.375% Notes outstanding. Any net proceeds from the offering of Senior Notes not used to purchase the 8.375% Notes will be used for general corporate purposes.
Citi and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. were the joint book-running managers for the offering.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of any Senior Notes in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. A registration statement relating to the Senior Notes has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Copies of the prospectus and prospectus supplement meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, may be obtained from Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Prospectus Department, Brooklyn Army Terminal, 140 58 Street, 8 Floor, Brooklyn, New York 11220 or by telephone at 877-858-5407 and at www.sec.gov.
th
th
ATI's obligation to accept any 8.375% Notes due 2011 tendered in its tender offer and to pay the applicable consideration for them are set forth solely in the related Offer to Purchase and the Letter of Transmittal. This news release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell any 8.375% Notes due 2011. The tender offer is made only by, and pursuant to the
 
terms of, the Offer to Purchase, and the information in this news release is qualified by reference to the Offer to Purchase and the related Letter of Transmittal. Subject to applicable law, ATI may amend, extend or, subject to certain conditions, terminate the tender offer.
The Company also announced that it has amended certain definitions and financial covenants in its $400 million senior unsecured domestic revolving credit facility to provide additional financial flexibility. The amendment restates the definition of consolidated earnings before interest and taxes and consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization as used in the interest coverage and leverage ratios to exclude any non-cash pension expense or income and restates the definition of consolidated indebtedness used in the leverage ratio, which previously was based on gross indebtedness, to be net of cash on hand in excess of $50 million. The Company has not drawn upon its credit facilities in the last ten years.
This news release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in this news release relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including credit market conditions and related issues, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
 
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of $5.3 billion during 2008. ATI has approximately 9,600 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, chemical process industry/oil and gas, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, and niobium, tungsten materials, and forgings and castings.

Exhibit 99.2
Pittsburgh, PA, June 2, 2009 Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE:ATI) announced today that it has completed its previously announced public offering of convertible notes due 2014. The offering was made pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the offering, ATI issued and sold $402,500,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Convertible Notes"), including $52,500,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes sold pursuant to an option granted to the underwriters of the offering of Convertible Notes to purchase up to an additional $52,500,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes to cover over-allotments, which was exercised in full. ATI intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of Convertible Notes to manage its liabilities and other obligations, such as by making voluntary contributions to its defined benefit pension trust and contributions to trusts established to fund retiree medical benefits, and the balance for general corporate purposes.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Citi were the joint book-running managers for the offering.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of any Convertible Notes in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. A registration statement relating to the Convertible Notes has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Copies of the prospectus and prospectus supplement meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, may be obtained from J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., National Statement Processing, Prospectus Library, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, New York 11245 or by telephone at 718 242-8002 and at .
www.sec.gov
This news release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in this news release relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates,"
 
"expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including credit market conditions and related issues, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, construction and mining, automotive, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of $5.3 billion during 2008. ATI has approximately 9,600 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, chemical process industry/oil and gas, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, and niobium, tungsten materials, and forgings and castings.


