FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20090722135349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 22, 2009, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its second quarter 2009 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, including credit market conditions and related issues, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical, automotive, construction and mining, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 22, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies earnings conference call for the second quarter 2009.
This conference call is being broadcast on our website at www.alleghenytechnologies.com. Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
Participating in the call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
All references to net income and earnings in this conference call mean net income and earnings "attributable to ATI common stockholders."
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line. Please note that all forward-looking statements this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
Pat Hassey:
Thanks, Dan. And thank you to everyone listening on today's call.
Before we get into the details of the quarter, I would like to summarize ATI's current thinking about how the company is now positioned, and further positioning itself, in this difficult market:
First of all, we recognize that:
 
Now, moving to some details of the quarter, the markets, and further opportunities for ATI...
Success in this environment begins with a strong financial position, and the ability to generate cash. We have both.
Excluding special non-recurring charges from our recent capital market transactions, ATI was profitable in the second quarter. Before special charges, we earned $0.03 per share... not great, but with $54 million of operating profit. We ended the quarter with a significant amount of cash on hand, and an improved balance sheet giving us financial flexibility.
 
During the first half of the year, ATI was able to:
In June, we completed several capital market transactions. The offerings were well-received by the investment community. As a result of these proactive liability management actions, we were able to return our U.S. defined benefit pension plan to a well-funded position and retire $183 million of ATI notes due in 2011.
We have been able to navigate this business environment by:
 
Sales of our high-value products were 81% of first half 2009 sales compared to 73% for the full-year 2008. Digging deeper, sales of our key high-value products  titanium, grain-oriented electrical steel, nickel-based alloys and specialty alloys, and exotic alloys  represented 65% of first half sales as compared to 52% of sales in the first half 2008.
We have been able to move our titanium mill products to diversified global markets. For example, total titanium shipments were nearly 10 million pounds during the second quarter 2009, and over 20 million pounds in the first half 2009, even in this severe economic downturn, and even with the aerospace slowdown.
For perspective, ATI shipped 20.8 million pounds of titanium for the full-year 2003, which was our trough in the previous cycle. So, this is a different, larger, more efficient, and more global company than the last time around.
Titanium shipments in our Flat-Rolled Products segment, including conversion for our Uniti titanium joint venture, were 7.3 million pounds during the first half 2009. Titanium shipments in this segment were up by over 100,000 pounds compared to the first half 2008, when market conditions were much better.
 
Again for perspective, titanium flat-rolled product shipments for the full-year 2003, the last cyclical trough, were 2.4 million pounds. That's 7.3 million in the first half 2009 compared to 2.4 million for the full year 2003. It's truly a different company.
Stainless steel demand appears to be in an early stage of recovery. ATI Allegheny Ludlum successfully implemented two base-price increases:
Base prices remain low, but we are seeing improvement from this historic bottom of the first half of 2009.
Industry data released last week indicates that service center inventories of stainless products remained near historically low levels in June at a seasonally adjusted rate of 2.5 months. Many of our service center customers tell us that they continue to keep their inventories at lower levels in order to avoid raw material risk and to conserve cash.
Turning to ATI markets, we remain confident in the intermediate and long-term growth potential of these core global markets:
 
Our strategy to become more global is working. Direct international sales were nearly 33% of sales in the second quarter 2009. For comparison, direct international sales were 28% of total sales for the full year 2008.
We were well represented at the Paris Air Show in June. We had important meetings with the highest level of management at many key aerospace customers. All meetings were productive and representative of ATI's position as an important specialty metals supplier.
The message from our customers was clear; they want to be aligned with suppliers who will be able to respond when the aerospace cycle improves. They particularly like ATI because we plan to have the next generation of capabilities  new and improved alloys and unsurpassed manufacturing equipment with new capabilities.
They also like ATI because of our financial strength and our global reach. We are working on several agreements intended to develop or expand strategic relationships with these key global customers.
 
The aerospace supply chain is responding to reduced 2009 build rates, possibly lower 2010 build rates due to available financing, and current reduced demand for aftermarket spare parts reflective of the global recession.
So, this resulted in demand for our jet engine metals being lower than expected in the second quarter. There still remains uncertainty in aerospace supply chain, because the jet engine forecast appears very conservative as compared to the OEM airframe build forecast.
Customers seem to be hesitant to make purchases to inventory due to their own economic conditions. They also see a perceived or potential negative impact on the future build schedule, due to the potential of reduced builds caused by the lack of available financing.
With historical precedent as a guide, the aerospace supply chain may very well overcorrect. If so, it would then need to quickly adjust to confirmed build schedules, or increasing lead-times, or both, which would include the ramp of Boeing's 787.
The defense non-aeroengine market is a new focus for ATI. It is a market where our sales grew in the first half 2009 compared to the first half 2008. For us, this new market includes applications in:
 
During the second quarter, ATI continued to gain supplier and product qualification with a variety of global customers. These defense contractors work on an array of defense platforms.
We like the large growth opportunities for our products in the defense market.
In the electrical energy market:
 
In the oil and gas market, overall activity remained sluggish during the second quarter. The drill rig count was low, but recovered somewhat late in the quarter. The deepwater market has held up well due to the long-term nature of these projects. Several large pipeline jobs remain on track.
ATI received certification and qualification from Achilles JQS in Norway. This means ATI is a fully qualified supplier on North Sea and Norwegian projects with major oil and gas companies.
We have and will continue to increase our focus on the global oil and gas market and believe this is another market that provides growth potential for ATI, particularly in deepwater applications.
Here are some other insights on ATI infrastructure markets. We ended 2008 with a considerable backlog of orders from large chemical process, oil and gas, and electrical energy projects from several areas of the world.
When the global financial melt down occurred in the fourth quarter 2008, our backlog remained steady, but new orders then stalled as projects were pushed out due in great part to financing issues. Our backlog for these projects was drawn down during the first half 2009 as new orders were not replacing shipments one for one.
 
However, we are recently encouraged by reports from customers, mainly fabricators in Asia who have exposure to the oil and gas and power generation markets, that their order entry rates have begun to improve. We understand that several stalled projects have financing in place and are beginning to move forward.
Turning to capital expenditures, we continue deploying our cash for the long-term position of ATI in unsurpassed equipment and facilities:
 
We anticipate that business conditions in the third quarter will remain challenging. While we see some signs of stabilization in a few markets, particularly in stainless sheet, demand for many of our products remains at very low levels, the pricing environment remains challenging, and visibility is limited.
To be very clear, recovering volume and the resulting revenue are the necessary keys to significantly improved financial results.
We do not see the market fundamentals for this to happen in the third quarter of 2009, and therefore we expect ATI's third quarter performance to be at or near break even. We expect to end the third quarter with a significant amount of cash while continuing to self fund our strategic capital projects.
We have prepared ATI for this downturn. Our financial position is strong and our cost structure is the best in the company's history. We have the capability to invest in the future and are doing so. Our product mix has improved; and we are focused on key global markets.
So, we are not standing still during this economic downturn, but are gaining ground for the future.
We are managing through the downturn and preparing ATI to be better positioned to grow when the economy and our markets recover.
 
We remain confident in the long-term growth potential of our core aerospace and infrastructure markets. These are the right markets for ATI. Therefore, our strategic direction and vision remain intact.
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of the Conference Call
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. Thanks to all of the listeners for joining us today. That concludes our
conference call.


