FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20101229161937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On December 22, 2010, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") amended its $400 million senior unsecured domestic revolving credit facility to extend the expiration date of the commitments of the lenders thereunder to December 22, 2015.
     The amendment is evidenced by a Second Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated December 22, 2010 (the "Second Amendment"), by and among ATI Funding Corporation, TDY Holdings, LLC, the guarantors party thereto, the lenders party thereto and PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent for the lenders. The foregoing is a summary of the material terms and conditions of the Second Amendment and not a complete discussion of the document. Accordingly, the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Second Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
     The disclosure set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: December 29, 2010

Exhibit 10.1
     This Second Amendment to Credit Agreement is dated December 22, 2010, by and among ATI Funding Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("ATI Funding"), TDY Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("TDYH") (ATI Funding and TDYH are each, a "Borrower" and collectively, the "Borrowers"), the Guarantors (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined)) party hereto, the Lenders (as hereinafter defined) party hereto and PNC Bank, National Association ("PNC Bank") as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent") (the "Second Amendment").
     WHEREAS, the Borrowers, the Guarantors, PNC Bank and various other financial institutions party thereto (PNC Bank and such other financial institutions are each, a "Lender" and collectively, the "Lenders") and the Administrative Agent entered into that certain Credit Agreement, dated July 31, 2007, as amended by First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated May 29, 2009, among the Borrowers, the Guarantors, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (as further amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"); and
     WHEREAS, the Borrowers and the Guarantors desire to amend certain provisions of the Credit Agreement and the Lenders and the Administrative Agent shall permit such amendments pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises contained herein and other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1. All capitalized terms used herein that are defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the same meaning herein as in the Credit Agreement unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
     2. Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by restating the following definitions in their entirety as set forth below:
      shall mean, with respect to the Revolving Credit Commitments, December 22, 2015.
Expiration Date
     3. Schedule 1.1(A) to the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "200.0" contained in Level IV below the heading "Revolving Credit Base Rate Spread" and replacing the same with the following reference: "125.0".
     4. The provisions of Sections 2 and 3 of this Second Amendment shall not become effective until the Administrative Agent has received the following items, each in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent and its counsel:
 
     (a) this Second Amendment, duly executed by each of the Loan Parties and the each of the Lenders;
     (b) the documents listed in the Preliminary Closing Agenda set forth on attached hereto and made a part hereof and evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that all conditions set forth in such Preliminary Closing Agenda have been satisfied;
Exhibit A
     (c) payment of all fees and expenses owed to the Lenders, the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent's counsel in connection with this Second Amendment; and
     (d) such other documents as may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent.
     5. Each Loan Party hereby reconfirms and reaffirms all representations and warranties, agreements and covenants made by it pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, except as such representations and warranties, agreements and covenants may have heretofore been amended, modified or waived in writing in accordance with the Credit Agreement.
     6. Each Loan Party acknowledges and agrees that each and every document, instrument or agreement, which at any time has secured the Obligations including, without limitation, the Guaranty Agreements, hereby continues to secure the Obligations.
     7. Each Loan Party hereby represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent that (i) such Loan Party has the legal power and authority to execute and deliver this Second Amendment, (ii) the officers of such Loan Party executing this Second Amendment have been duly authorized to execute and deliver the same and bind such Loan Party with respect to the provisions hereof, (iii) the execution and delivery hereof by such Loan Party and the performance and observance by such Loan Party of the provisions hereof and of the Credit Agreement and all documents executed or to be executed in connection herewith or therewith, do not violate or conflict with the organizational agreements of such Loan Party or any law applicable to such Loan Party or result in a breach of any provision of or constitute a default under any other agreement, instrument or document binding upon or enforceable against such Loan Party, and (iv) this Second Amendment, the Credit Agreement and the documents executed or to be executed by such Loan Party in connection herewith or therewith constitute valid and binding obligations of such Loan Party in every respect, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
     8. Each Loan Party represents and warrants that (i) no Event of Default exists under the Credit Agreement, nor will any occur as a result of the execution and delivery of this Second Amendment or the performance or observance of any provision hereof, (ii) the schedules attached to and made a part of the Credit Agreement, are true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof, except as such schedules may have heretofore been amended or modified or updated in writing in accordance with the Credit Agreement, and (iii) it presently has no
 
known claims or actions of any kind at law or in equity against any Lender or the Administrative Agent arising out of or in any way relating to the Credit Agreement or the other Loan Documents.
     9. Each reference to the Credit Agreement that is made in the Credit Agreement or any other document executed or to be executed in connection therewith shall hereafter be construed as a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
     10. The agreements contained in this Second Amendment are limited to the specific agreements made herein. Except as amended hereby, all of the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect. This Second Amendment amends the Credit Agreement and is not a novation thereof.
     11. This Second Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the different parties hereto on separate counterparts each of which, when so executed, shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
     12. This Second Amendment shall be governed by, and shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, the Laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania without regard to the principles of the conflicts of law thereof. Each Loan Party hereby consents to the jurisdiction and venue of the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania and the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania with respect to any suit arising out of or mentioning this Second Amendment.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto have caused this Second Amendment to be duly executed by their duly authorized officers the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     This preliminary closing agenda contains the documents to be delivered in connection with a second amendment to the credit facility provided to , a Delaware corporation ("ATI Funding"), and , a Delaware limited liability company ("TDYH") (ATI Funding and TDYH are each, a "Borrower" and collectively, the "Borrowers"), by ("PNC Bank"), and various other financial institutions from time to time (PNC Bank and such other financial institutions are each, a "Lender" and collectively, the "Lenders"), , as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"), and , a Pennsylvania limited liability company, as lead arranger (the "Lead Arranger") (the "Credit Facility").
ATI Funding Corporation
TDY Holdings, LLC
PNC Bank, National Association
PNC Bank
PNC Capital Markets LLC
 
 
 
 
 
 


