FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20100728135519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 28, 2010, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its second quarter 2010 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical, automotive, construction and mining, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 28, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies earnings conference call for the second quarter 2010. This conference call is being broadcast on our website at . Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
www.ATIMetals.com
Participating in the call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
All references to net income and earnings in this conference call mean net income and earnings "attributable to ATI".
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
Pat Hassey:
Thanks, Dan. And, thanks to everyone for joining today's call.
Our key global markets are performing well. Our strategy has been to target certain markets that we believe deliver in long-term secular growth trends that are greater than GDP. The fundamentals of these markets remain intact even during a time of general economic uncertainty primarily in the U.S. and Europe.
We continue to see 2010 as a transition year to the resumption of growth.
Here are some highlights of our second quarter 2010 performance:
ATI is not immune from short-term economic conditions. Caution and uncertainty best describe our stainless business, which is primarily driven by U.S. and global economic conditions.
 
Some additional second quarter highlights:
 
We continue to introduce innovative new products and achieved several major new product milestones in the second quarter:
 
How do we see the impact of ATI 425 alloy?
 
Now, let's turn to comments on our key markets:
Throughout 2009, when the aerospace supply chain was destocking, we had said that we expected the aerospace market to recover in 2010. That scenario is playing out for ATI even better than we had expected as aircraft build rates are increasing.
 
 
 
 
Turning to our businesses that are more dependent on the general economy of the United States:
Second quarter 2010 shipments of our standard stainless sheet and plate products increased 17% compared to the first quarter 2010.
 
Moving to our strategic capital projects:
We continue to invest in unsurpassed manufacturing capabilities.
 
Before we open the call for questions, a last comment about the third quarter and the second half 2010:
In the second half, we expect our High Performance Metals segment to improve quarter on quarter at about 7% to 8%. We see the aerospace market and this segment's other markets beginning to accelerate throughout 2011 to a robust level in 2012 and beyond.
Our Engineered Products segment businesses continue to improve. We expect a lower third quarter due to normal seasonality, particularly the vacation period in Europe. Growth should resume in the fourth quarter and continue into 2011.
In the third quarter, our Flat-Rolled Products segment is experiencing raw materials costs to out-of-phase surcharges due to:
These conditions are expected to significantly reduce third quarter Flat-Rolled Products operating profit. However, we expect a rapid rebound in the fourth quarter due to renewed stocking. We do not believe end-use demand for our standard stainless products is deteriorating.
 
By 2011 and beyond, we expect to grow faster than our core global markets because we have improved our market position with:
Operator, we will now open the call for any questions.
Q&A Portion of the Conference Call
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. Thanks to all of the listeners for joining us today. That concludes our conference call.


