FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20100428140029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On April 28, 2010, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its first quarter 2010 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
          Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical, automotive, construction and mining, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
          The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 28, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies earnings conference call for the first quarter 2010. This conference call is being broadcast on our website at . Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
www.ATImetals.com
Participating in the call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
All references to net income and earnings in this conference call mean net income and earnings "attributable to ATI".
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
Pat Hassey:
Thanks, Dan. And, thanks to everyone for joining today's call.
Let's start by discussing our first quarter performance and some positive implications for our business going forward:
These are all signs that we are recovering from the global contraction that impacted our business in 2009.
 
In our business, recovery begins with volume, which improves capacity utilization. We are seeing continued positive signs of recovery and improving volume. Second quarter production schedules are basically booked full at our current utilization rates, lead times are extending, and scrap is in short supply.
Based on these continued market conditions, we believe there may be opportunities for improving base prices in the second half of 2010 as the business cycle continues to recover.
Raw materials surcharges for second quarter shipments will be higher due to rising raw materials costs. However, in our Flat-Rolled Products segment, base prices for many products, particularly stainless sheet and plate, remain low because of these rapidly rising raw materials surcharges. The customer's total transaction price is up, but the base, or conversion price, is still very low. We believe we could see some moderation of raw material prices, coupled with increasing base prices, in the second half 2010.
These are all signs that a true business cycle recovery is underway. With steady quarter-on-quarter improvement, we continue to see 2010 as the transition year to the resumption of secular growth in our key markets.
 
One more point  our direct international sales increased to approximately 34% of sales in the first quarter 2010. Today, ATI is more globally focused than ever before. A particularly important note, our Flat-Rolled Products segment achieved a record 35% of direct international sales in the first quarter 2010.
Of note, and comment, is ATI's total first quarter 2010 titanium mill product shipments  this includes our High Performance Metals, plus Flat-Rolled Products, plus Uniti joint venture conversion. ATI's total titanium mill products shipments for the first three months 2010 were 9.2 million pounds. We now believe we will ship over 40 million pounds of titanium products in 2010. Stay tuned for more as we go forward.
Moving to our segments  all figures are comparisons of first quarter 2010 to the fourth quarter 2009, since this is the most current indication of cyclical recovery:
 
In our High Performance Metals segment:
 
 
Now, moving to our Flat-Rolled Products segment:
 
Our Engineered Products segment was profitable in the first quarter 2010 as we continue to see improving conditions for many of our products, particularly in the oil & gas market, due to increasing demand for our tungsten drilling products.
 
Today, I will focus on two of our key markets: (1) aerospace and defense, and (2) oil and gas. We believe these markets are showing not only signs of recovery, but we are seeing early signs of secular growth.
In the aerospace market, sentiment changed dramatically in late February and March:
 
We like the way ATI is positioned to benefit from these aircraft production rate increases of both the legacy and the new airplane programs. We also are very well positioned to benefit from the next-generation airframe and jet engine programs.
 
 
Turning to the oil and gas market:
The world continues to use, and need, more energy as developing and advanced nations grow their per-capita GDP and their citizens move to modern conveniences and life-improvement. According to a respected industry source, to meet growing global demand, "We need to find and get into production one new Saudi Arabia every three years".
Oil and gas exploration has moved to extremely demanding locations, such as deep water offshore, and to unconventional sources, such as shale gas and LNG deep in the earth. These environments require the strong and highly corrosion resistant alloys that we make.
Here are some facts that indicate ATI's first quarter 2010 penetration and performance in the oil and gas market:
We not only like the growth in rig count, we like the faster-than-trend-growth in wells associated with shale gas and high-pressure, high-temperature exploration and production. Offshore projects
 
continue to be engineered around the globe, and ATI is well positioned to benefit. We are:
Finally, a quick update on our remaining strategic capital projects:
 
 
Before we open the call for questions, a final comment:
Our first quarter performance, as well as execution, as well as an improving rate of order entry for most of our products, re-enforces our view that 2010 will be a year of steady quarter-on-quarter improvement.
We continue to believe 2010 is the transition year from 2009's global contraction to the resumption of the secular growth trends previously achieved in our key global markets.
We expect to recover and grow faster than our core global markets because we have improved our market position as demonstrated by:
Operator, we will now open the call for any questions.
Q&A Portion of the Conference Call
 
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. Thanks to all of the listeners for joining us today. That concludes our conference call.


