FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20100127143428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 27, 2010, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its fourth quarter 2009 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical, automotive, construction and mining, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
     The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 27, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies earnings conference call for the fourth quarter and full-year 2009. This conference call is being broadcast on our website at . Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
www.alleghenytechnologies.com
Participating in the call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer and Rich Harshman, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer.
All references to net income and earnings in this conference call mean net income and earnings "attributable to ATI".
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
Pat Hassey:
Thanks, Dan. And, thank you to everyone listening on today's call. 2009 is now behind us and I have a few things I would like to share with you that demonstrate that ATI is a different company. This business cycle's trough in 2009 revealed the benefits of the transformation process we began in 2004.
 
 
 
 
Our strategic emphasis on high-value products continues. 2009 sales of our high-value products were nearly 78% of sales.
 
73% of 2009 sales were to our core, global markets. We remain confident in the intermediate and long-term secular growth potential of these markets:
Defense was a growth market for ATI in 2009. Not many metals companies can report that they had a growth market last year. This accomplishment further reveals our ability to "move our periscope" to key markets, particularly to markets where ATI has traditionally been underrepresented. The defense market for armored vehicles and naval structures provides ATI with new growth opportunities. These are outside of the traditional military aircraft applications and utilize our titanium alloys, specialty alloys, and engineered products.
We entered 2009 with a goal to come out of the recession an even stronger and better company. We believe this goal was accomplished and our direction and vision remain intact.
 
The fourth quarter 2009 was by far our best quarter of the year as we began to see modest recovery in many of our markets. ATI earned $0.36 per share in the fourth quarter on 108 million shares outstanding.
Comparing fourth quarter 2009 to third quarter 2009 performance, ATI sales improved by nearly 17%:
 
 
In the 4 quarter, ATI earned segment operating profit of over $118 million. This was accomplished under circumstances that, while improved from the third quarter 2009, had two significant challenges:
th
 
Finally, a quick update on our remaining strategic capital projects:
 
Now, my closing comments before we take questions.
First, some numbers:
In 2010, we expect to see gradual and steady improvement in most of our markets during the year:
 
 
We think 2009 results demonstrate that we have taken the right actions to make ATI a better company. As a result, we expect to recover and grow faster than our core global markets because we have improved our market position with:
We are seeing stabilization and the early signs of cyclical recovery in our core markets. On top of that, intermediate and long-term secular trends are occurring in these markets that require more of our advanced alloys than ever before. Lastly, we continue to expand our international and new market segment penetration.
Recovering volume and the resulting revenue are the necessary keys to significantly improved financial results for ATI. We are optimistic that 2010 is a year of gradual and steady improvement  quarter-on-quarter.
Operator, may we have the first question, please.
Q&A Portion of the Conference Call
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. Thanks to all of the listeners for joining us today. That concludes our conference call.


