FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20101026160129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On October 26, 2010, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its third quarter 2010 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
          Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical, automotive, construction and mining, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from strategic investments, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD.
          The disclosure furnished above under Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference into and furnished under this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 26, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you .................... Good afternoon and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies earnings conference call for the third quarter 2010. This conference call is being broadcast on our website at . Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
www.ATIMetals.com
Participating in the call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Rich Harshman, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Dale Reid, Senior Vice President Finance and Principal Financial Officer.
All references to net income and earnings in this conference call mean net income and earnings "attributable to ATI".
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey
 
Thanks, Dan.
And, thanks to everyone for joining today's call.
Our key global markets are performing well.
Our strategy has been to target certain market sectors that we believe are in long-term secular growth trends that are greater than average global GDP.
We still see 2010 as a transition year to the resumption of strong secular growth in those key global markets.
Order entry and optimism has improved from several markets. We recently announced price increases for our nickel-based alloys and specialty alloys, both long products and flat-rolled products. In addition, Uniti, our industrial titanium joint venture, announced a price increase for CP titanium products. Because of extending lead times, these price increases are expected to impact 2011 performance, beginning in the first quarter.
As we previously announced, third quarter operating profit was negatively impacted by certain issues:
 
 
While these start-up costs have been a headwind to 2010 operating profit, we expect our strategic capital projects to benefit ATI performance in 2011 and beyond.
Strength in our key markets is providing the foundation for the resumption of strong secular growth beginning in 2011:
 
 
ATI is innovating for the future. We are adding innovative new products to improve customer productivity and so they can make their products better and faster. We have a robust pipeline of new products.
 
During the first nine months of 2010, we have been navigating through some choppiness and uncertainty that often characterizes a recovery year.
We still see 2010 as a transition year to the resumption of strong secular growth in our key global markets. Our new assets and innovative new products are setting a solid foundation for growth.
 
The actions we have taken allow us to improve our share and grow faster than the markets we have identified that have secular growth trends that are greater than global average GDP.
Frankly, we feel very good about 2011 and beyond. However, factors beyond our control impact our short-term visibility. Because of so much uncertainty, particularly in the U.S., and the volatility of many raw materials prices, we cannot predict the actions of our customers, particularly in the final weeks of the year. It is just uncertain. For example, will customers:
We have strong conviction that 2011 will be far better for ATI than 2010...that 2012 will be better than 2011...and that 2013 continues and will be far better than 2012.
So we have a very optimistic view of our prospects beginning in 2011.
 
Operator, we will now open the call for any questions.
Q&A Portion of the Conference Call
Pat Hassey:
Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. Thanks to all of the listeners for joining us today. That concludes our conference call.


