FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20110126134607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On January 26, 2011, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its fourth quarter 2010 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical, automotive, construction and mining, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from our proposed acquisition of Ladish Co., Inc. and other strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 26, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies earnings conference call for the fourth quarter and full year 2010. This conference call is being broadcast on our website at . Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
www.ATIMetals.com
Participating in the call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Rich Harshman, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Dale Reid, Senior Vice President Finance and Principle Financial Officer.
All references to net income and earnings in this conference call mean net income and earnings "attributable to ATI". Comments on our expectations for 2011 and beyond do not include any impact from our pending acquisition of Ladish. In addition, as I am sure you appreciate, we cannot comment or entertain questions regarding Ladish since the acquisition is not yet complete.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
 
Please note that all forward-looking statements this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
Pat Hassey:
Thanks, Dan. And, thanks to everyone for joining today's call.
Overall, 2010 was a much better year than 2009 with sales up 33% to back over $4 billion in revenue. 2009 net income was up 125% to $0.72 per share. 2010 turned out to be the transition year we had forecasted. Improvements in our markets are the basis for our 2011 outlook.
Disappointing as the fourth quarter may appear at $0.15 per share, it was a greatly improved bookings quarter and good start for 2011. High Performance Metals has increased its backlog by 40% to over $650 million, and Flat Rolled Products revenues are forecasted up 15% for the first quarter 2011. Engineered Products bookings are stronger and are growing.
It was a quarter where we were impacted by $19.5 million in LIFO Inventory Reserve Charges for nickel and other raw materials, and it was the quarter where we took added one-time charges on start-up delays at our Rowley titanium facility, of $20.0 million. Overall, a negative $0.26 per share impact.
Our key global markets are performing well. 2010 was the transition year to the resumption of strong secular growth in our key global markets beginning in 2011. We see the second half 2011as stronger than the first half due to a ramping aerospace market beginning in the third quarter and continuing in 2012.
 
For 2010, we saw strong year-on-year recovery... some key measures:
 
While start-up costs were a short-term headwind in 2010, we expect our strategic capital projects to benefit ATI performance in 2011 and beyond.
 
As we look at growth opportunities in 2011, our strategy continues to increase our participation in selected market sectors that demonstrate long-term secular growth trends greater than average global GDP.
These key global markets represented 67% of ATI sales in 2010:
The performance of our key global growth markets in 2010 demonstrates the advantage of ATI's diversified global reach. As I have said, we can move our periscope to find the best available market for our products...and we do.
 
Strong fourth quarter order receipts provide a lot of momentum going into 2011.
 
 
Other trends in Flat-Rolled Products:
 
Most of the markets served by our Engineered Products segment continued to recover in 2010. Our steel forgings business stands out:
 
We continue to have a strong balance sheet:
On January 7, 2011, ATI issued $500 million of investment-grade senior notes. The new senior notes along with $432 million cash-on-hand at the end of the year, and a $400 million undrawn, unsecured domestic credit facility, provide ATI with ample liquidity to meet our cash needs in 2011, which we expect to include:
 
Strength in our key markets gives us confidence in 2011:
Single-aisle aircraft production rates are growing.
Double-aisle aircraft production rates, such as for Boeing's 777 and 747-8, are also growing.
Recently, Boeing reset the first delivery for its 787 Dreamliner to the third quarter 2011and restarted the flight test schedule.
 
ATI is innovating for the future of aerospace. We have introduced new products to improve customer productivity and cost:
 
Turning to the oil and gas market/chemical process industry:
 
ATI is innovating for the future of the oil and gas/chemical process industry:
 
The strategic growth initiatives we have taken allow us to (1) improve our share and (2) grow in 2011:
In total,
Operator, we will now open the call for any questions.
Q&A Portion of the Conference Call
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you, Pat. Thanks to all of the listeners for joining us today. That concludes our conference call.


