FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20110427142100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On April 27, 2011, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated held its first quarter 2011 earnings conference call, broadcast live by webcast. The conference call script is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Certain statements in the script contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain statements in the script relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "would," "should," "will," "will likely result," "forecast," "outlook," "projects," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include: (a) material adverse changes in economic or industry conditions generally, and global supply and demand conditions and prices for our specialty metals; (b) material adverse changes in the markets we serve, including the aerospace and defense, electrical energy, chemical process industry, oil and gas, medical, automotive, construction and mining, and other markets; (c) our inability to achieve the level of cost savings, productivity improvements, synergies, growth or other benefits anticipated by management, including those anticipated from our proposed acquisition of Ladish Co., Inc. and other strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses, whether due to significant increases in energy, raw materials or employee benefits costs, the possibility of project cost overruns or unanticipated costs and expenses, or other factors; (d) volatility of prices and availability of supply of the raw materials that are critical to the manufacture of our products; (e) declines in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that govern pension plan funding; (f) significant legal proceedings or investigations adverse to us; and (g) other risk factors summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
     (d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to the Allegheny Technologies earnings conference call for the first quarter 2011. This conference call is being broadcast on our website at . Members of the media have been invited to listen to this call.
www.ATIMetals.com
Participating in the call today are Pat Hassey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Rich Harshman, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Dale Reid, Senior Vice President, Finance and Principal Financial Officer.
All references to net income and earnings in this conference call mean net income and earnings "attributable to ATI". Comments on our expectations for 2011 and beyond do not include any impact from our pending acquisition of Ladish. In addition, as I am sure you appreciate, we cannot comment or entertain questions regarding Ladish since the acquisition is not yet complete.
After some initial comments, we will ask for questions. During the question and answer session, please limit yourself to two questions to be considerate of others on the line.
Please note that all forward-looking statements this afternoon are subject to various assumptions and caveats as noted in the earnings release. Actual results may differ materially.
Here is Pat Hassey.
 
Pat Hassey:
Thanks, Dan. And, thanks to everyone for joining today's call.
I have said that 2010 was the transition year and 2011 would be the year when strong secular growth resumes. We are off to a good start:
 
Our key global markets are strong and represent 70% of ATI first quarter sales:
Orders continued to be strong in the first quarter:
Market strength along with ATI's improved capabilities and expanded capacities give me confidence in our beliefs that:
 
This is an extraordinary time in the specialty metals business. It is the beginning of a period of sustained growth unlike anything I have seen in my 40-plus-year career.
ATI is very well positioned for the future and for profitable growth. As you know, I will retire after our annual meeting this Friday.
Now is the right time for a change in leadership at ATI. I am confident that Rich Harshman is the right person for the job. Rich and I have been working together for nearly 8 years, developing and implementing ATI's strategies for profitable growth. We have an outstanding team in place to support Rich. I am confident that under Rich's leadership, ATI can continue the transformation that we started in 2004, taking ATI to new levels of performance.
Before I turn the call over to Rich, let me tell you how much I enjoyed my time leading ATI. I enjoyed the many conversations that I had with you, our investors and analysts. I particularly liked those of you who questioned our strategies and theories. Good management must be open to opinions that test our thinking. You required us to be more thoughtful and look at our positions from a different perspective. ATI is a better company because of you. My personal thanks.
Now, here is Rich Harshman.
 
Rich Harshman:
Thank you, Pat. We are optimistic that 2011 will indeed be the year when strong secular growth resumes for ATI. This optimism is supported by our performance in the first quarter.
It is important to note that, while we are focused on our four key global markets, 48% of our first quarter 2011 revenue came from our two largest markets  aerospace and defense, and oil and gas/chemical process industry. This becomes 54% of sales when the medical market is included. These three markets require high-value, high-quality products. They are global, have current robust demand, and are expected to get stronger over the next several years, and ATI is very well-positioned to continue to grow in these markets.
 
First, let's look at the aerospace market:
 
 
 
Titanium sponge and scrap availability is tight. We understand that Chinese titanium sponge prices are now about $7.00 per pound, and we know that 6-4 premium grade bulk weldable scrap is at the same level. The ability to have our own titanium sponge supply, with the Rowley facility, and the available additional capacity from our Albany sponge operations will enable ATI to continue to grow.
 
Turning to the oil and gas/chemical process industry:
 
 
Turning to the electrical energy market:
 
We believe an inflection point to secular growth from the electrical energy market could develop as Japan recovers and rebuilds.
 
All of these factors all point to the resumption of strong secular growth in our key markets. In addition, we are seeing cyclical recovery in most of our other markets. As a result:
 
Moving to our Engineered Products segment, the first quarter was strong. Sales increased over 45% compared to the first quarter 2010 as a result of improved demand and higher prices for our tungsten products and carbon alloy steel forgings. More importantly, segment operating profit was a respectable 11.4% of sales.
 
In summary, we are building momentum across our businesses and continue to see 2011 as the year where secular growth returns in our key global markets. We remain focused on improving our cost structure, with $26 million of gross cost reductions in the first quarter. This combined with growing demand and improved pricing for most of our specialty metals results in our expectations of:
Before we move to the question and answer session  I hope everyone stays on line after the Q&A session for special closing comments about Pat Hassey.
Operator, we will now open the call for any questions.
Q&A Portion of the Conference Call
 
Rich Harshman:
As always, thank you for joining us today and thank you for your continuing interest in ATI.
This is a day of mixed emotions for me and all of us at ATI. As you know, Pat Hassey has announced his retirement effective May 1. Pat has been our inspirational and visionary leader for over seven years. He is quite simply the best person I have ever worked for and with. I think that it is the goal of every CEO to leave his or her company in a better position than when they became CEO. Pat has most certainly accomplished this at ATI.
Pat has agreed to continue to provide his unique insights to ATI for the next couple of years as a senior advisor to me.
On behalf of ATI's Board of Directors, management and employees I would like to thank Pat for his leadership and for leaving ATI in a strong position for the future.
On a personal note, I would like to thank Pat for his guidance and support, but most importantly for his friendship, which I know will continue.
Pat, we wish you and Marsha well in your retirement.
Dan Greenfield:
Thank you. Thanks to all of the listeners for joining us today. That concludes our conference call.


