FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20110727164136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 26, 2011, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated announced that the tentative agreements that were reached on June 30, 2011 between ATI Allegheny Ludlum and ATI's Albany, OR titanium operations and the United Steelworkers (USW) were not ratified by the USW-represented employees. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 27, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
Pittsburgh, PA, July 26, 2011  Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) announced that the tentative agreements that were reached on June 30, 2011, between ATI Allegheny Ludlum and ATI's Albany, OR titanium operations and the United Steelworkers (USW) were not ratified by USW-represented employees. The existing labor agreements covering employees of Allegheny Ludlum and the Albany, OR titanium operations are currently set to expire on August 1, 2011.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statement.
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues, including Ladish, of approximately $4.8 billion for the last twelve months. ATI has approximately 11,000 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, oil and gas/chemical process industry, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, niobium, tungsten materials, forgings, castings, and fabrication and machining capabilities. The ATI website is www.ATImetals.com.


