FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20110505092601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
As previously announced, Richard J. Harshman became Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") effective May 1, 2011. In addition, on April 29, 2011, the Company announced that the Board of Directors has appointed Dale G. Reid, previously the Company's Senior Vice President, Finance and Principal Financial Officer, to serve as the Company's Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, effective May 1, 2011. In connection with their increased responsibilities, the Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company has approved adjustments to the base salaries of Messrs. Harshman and Reid to $900,000 and $375,000, respectively, effective May 1, 2011. The base salary of Terry L. Dunlap increased to $425,000, effective May 1, 2011, upon his promotion to Executive Vice President, Flat-Rolled Products and President, ATI Allegheny Ludlum.
(e)
The Company and L. Patrick Hassey, former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, entered into a consulting and noncompetition agreement dated as of May 1, 2011, pursuant to which Mr. Hassey will serve as a consultant to the Company for three years, after which time the agreement may be extended for additional monthly periods upon the mutual agreement of the parties. Mr. Hassey will provide consulting services related to various matters, including corporate strategy, acquisitions, operations, industry, and board of directors matters. Mr. Hassey will be paid at the rate of $83,333 per month for the first year, at the rate of $41,667 per month for the second year, and at the rate of $20,834 per month for the third year. Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Hassey is subject to a confidentiality covenant and is bound by a noncompetition provision during the term of his consultancy. The foregoing is a summary of the material terms and conditions of the agreement and not a complete discussion of the document. Accordingly, the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the agreement which will be filed with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.
In addition, the Company and Jon D. Walton, former Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Chief Legal and Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary, entered into a consulting and noncompetition agreement dated as of May 1, 2011, pursuant to which Mr. Walton will serve as a consultant to the Company for three years, after which time the agreement may be extended for additional monthly periods upon the mutual agreement of the parties. Mr. Walton will provide consulting services related to various matters, including corporate governance, ethics, corporate secretary, executive compensation, and labor relations matters. Mr. Walton will be paid at the rate of $62,500 per month for the first year, at the rate of $31,250 per month for the second year, and at the rate of $15,625 per month for the third year. Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Walton is subject to a confidentiality covenant and is bound by a noncompetition provision during the term of his consultancy. The foregoing is a summary of the material terms and conditions of the agreement and not a complete discussion of the document. Accordingly, the foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the agreement which will be filed with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.
Table of Contents
     On April 29, 2011, the Company held its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting"). The final voting results for each matter submitted for a vote of the Company's stockholders at the Annual Meeting are provided below.
     In accordance with the voting results on this item, the Company has determined to hold an advisory vote to approve the compensation of the Company's named officers every year until the next stockholder vote on the frequency of such advisory votes. A stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder advisory votes to approve the compensation of the Company's named officers is required to be held at least once every six years.
     There were no broker non-votes with respect to this matter.
Table of Contents
     On April 29, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing certain senior management promotions. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 5, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
Pittsburgh, PA, April 29, 2011  Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE:ATI) announced that Richard J. Harshman, 54, has become Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ATI succeeding L. Patrick Hassey who has retired. Mr. Harshman also has been elected to serve as a member of ATI's Board of Directors. This is consistent with ATI's announcement on February 28, 2011.
Mr. Harshman has been with the Company for 33 years. Prior to being named President and Chief Operating Officer in August 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer since 2003; he began serving as CFO in 2000.
In addition, the Company announced a number of title changes reflecting the roles and responsibilities of executives reporting to Mr. Harshman:
Also reporting to Mr. Harshman are Lauren S. McAndrews in her role as ATI's Vice President, Labor Relations; Mary Beth Moore, Vice President Human Resources; Phil Morton, Marketing, Communication and Brand Management Leader; and Darin Sarin, Project Manager Hot Rolling Processing Facility.
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of $4.0 billion during 2010. ATI has approximately 9,300 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, oil and gas/chemical process industry, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, and niobium, tungsten materials, and forgings and castings. The Allegheny Technologies website is www.ATImetals.com.


