FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20111005172032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On October 5, 2011, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated announced that it has extended the term of its long-term titanium products supply agreement with The Boeing Company through December 31, 2018.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(d)      Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Allegheny Technologies and Boeing Extend Long-Term Titanium Products Supply Agreement
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 5, 2011--Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) today announced that it has extended the term of its long-term titanium products supply agreement with The Boeing Company (NYSE: BA) through December 31, 2018. The extension agreement covers value-added titanium mill products and provides opportunity for greater use of ATI's highly engineered titanium cast and forged products.
We are pleased to extend our titanium products supply agreement with Boeing, said Rich Harshman, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The extension agreement solidifies our key-supplier position at The Boeing Company and recognizes todays supply chain requirement to provide more value-added titanium products. ATIs strategic investments and acquisitions over the past several years provide the capacity and capability to produce titanium products from raw material (titanium sponge) to value-added mill products, as well as highly engineered and technically complex forgings and castings. ATI is well positioned to benefit from the expected unprecedented growth in Boeings build rates during the years of this agreement.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to materially differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no duty to update our forward-looking statements.
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of approximately $4.7 billion for the last twelve months. ATI has approximately 11,300 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, oil and gas/chemical process industry, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, niobium, tungsten materials, forgings, castings, and fabrication and machining capabilities. The ATI website is .
Building the Worlds Best Specialty Metals Company
www.ATImetals.com
CONTACT: Allegheny Technologies Incorporated Dan L. Greenfield, 412-394-3004


