FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20120425090706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01.         Other Events.
On April 25, 2012, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the Company) issued a press release with respect to its long-term sourcing agreement with GE Aviation for the supply of Rene 65 Alloy for jet engine applications.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.          Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1      Press Release dated April 25, 2012.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
ATI Announces Long-Term Agreement for Rene 65 Alloy
PITTSBURGH--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 25, 2012--Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) announced today that it has signed a long-term sourcing agreement with GE Aviation, an operating unit of General Electric Company (NYSE: GE), for the supply of Rene 65 Alloy. Rene 65 Alloy, a future-generation alloy, is the newest nickel-based superalloy developed by ATI in collaboration with GE Aviation. The agreement covers Rene 65 Alloy disc-quality mill products sold to GE Aviation and its suppliers by ATI Allvac, an operating unit of Allegheny Technologies.
We are pleased to announce the signing of this long-term agreement for Rene 65 Alloy with GE Aviation, said Rich Harshman, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of ATI. This cooperative development effort between ATI and GE Aviation to create a cost-effective disc-quality product for use in jet engines operating at increasingly higher temperatures began just over four years ago. GE and its supply chain partners are in the process of taking advantage of the cost benefits and capabilities of Rene 65 Alloy by implementing the alloy in both legacy and next-generation jet engines.
The short time involved in the development of Rene 65 Alloy is unprecedented and required a tremendous engineering effort by GE and ATI. This process illustrates the value that our integrated aerospace supply chain brings to new product development. We produce Rene 65 Alloy billet at our new Titanium and Superalloy Forging Facility (TSAF), which houses the largest and most powerful open-die forge presses in our industry. The Rene 65 Alloy billet is forged at ATI Ladish (& other forgers) using both isothermal forging and hot die forging into several jet engine components. The real-time technology exchange between GE Aviation and ATIs mill product and forging metallurgists significantly compressed the time it took to take Rene 65 Alloy from an idea to a qualified product.
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of approximately $5.3 billion for the last twelve months. ATI has approximately 11,500 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, oil and gas/chemical process industry, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, niobium, tungsten materials, forgings, castings, and fabrication and machining capabilities. The ATI website is .
Building the Worlds Best Specialty Metals Company
www.ATImetals.com
CONTACT: Allegheny Technologies Incorporated Dan L. Greenfield, 412-394-3004


