FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20120910163547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 7, 2012, Carolyn Corvi was elected to the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (the "Company") as a Class II director, effective immediately, in connection with the Board increasing the number of directors constituting the Board from ten to eleven. Effective as of the same date, the Board appointed Ms. Corvi to serve on the Audit Committee and the Technology Committee of the Board. Ms. Corvi will stand for election at the Company's 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
(d)
The Board has determined that Ms. Corvi is an independent director under applicable New York Stock Exchange listing requirements and the Company's categorical Board independence standards, which are set forth in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
As a non-employee director of the Board, Ms. Corvi will receive the standard compensation paid to other non-employee directors for service on the Board and pro rata compensation for her service as a director in 2012, which includes 1,050 shares of restricted stock granted to Ms. Corvi on September 7, 2012 upon her election to the Board.
There were no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Corvi and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Corvi was elected as a director, and there are and have been no transactions since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year, or currently proposed, regarding Ms. Corvi that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
The Company issued a press release on September 7, 2012 to announce the election of Ms. Corvi to the Board. The press release is set forth in its entirety and attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On September 7, 2012, the Board adopted an amendment and restatement of the Company's prior Amended and Restated Bylaws. The principal differences between the Company's Second Amended and Restated Bylaws, which became effective as of September 7, 2012 (the "Second Amended and Restated Bylaws"), and the Company's prior Amended and Restated Bylaws are as follows:
Advance Notice Requirements
Section 2 of Article II of the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws explicitly provides that, other than nominations of directors (which must be made in compliance with Section 11 of Article III of the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws), Section 2 of Article II is the exclusive means by which a stockholder can submit business for an annual meeting of stockholders, other than proposals governed by Rule 14a-8 of the federal proxy rules. Section 2 of Article II of the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws requires a stockholder to provide the Company advance written notice of such business, generally between 75 and 90 days before the meeting. Section 2 of Article II also sets forth new required disclosures by a stockholder making such a proposal, including, among other things, disclosure of all derivative interests relating to securities of the Company held by such stockholder.
Section 11 of Article III of the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws requires a stockholder intending to make a director nomination at a meeting of stockholders to provide the Company advance written notice of such nominations, generally between 75 and 90 days before the meeting. Section 11 of Article III (i) explicitly provides that it is the exclusive means by which a stockholder can make such a nomination and (ii) sets forth new required disclosures with respect to a stockholder making such a nomination and the nominee, including, among other things, disclosure of all derivative interests relating to securities of the Company held by such stockholder and nominee.
Director Resignation Policy
Section 12 of Article III of the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws contains a newly adopted director resignation policy. Under this section, any nominee for director in an uncontested election who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" than votes "for" such nominee's election shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board. The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board, or such other committee as may be duly authorized by the Board, shall evaluate the director's tendered resignation and shall recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject such resignation or take other action. The Board shall act to accept or reject such a resignation within 90 days following the certification of the election results for the stockholder meeting at which the election of directors was held, and the Company thereafter shall publicly disclose the Board's decision and its reasons therefor in accordance with Section 12 of Article III. Any director who tenders his resignation pursuant to Section 12 of Article III shall not participate in any consideration or action with respect to such resignation by the Board, the Nominating and Governance Committee or any other committee duly authorized by the Board to evaluate such resignation.
Miscellaneous
The Second Amended and Restated Bylaws also contain a number of conforming and other non-material changes, such as providing for electronic transmission of communications and clarifying the applicability of certain provisions to uncertificated shares as permitted by Delaware law, and other clarifications.
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws, which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 10, 2012

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. . The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
Section 1
Registered Office
. . The corporate headquarters of the Corporation shall be in the City of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Section 2
Corporate Headquarters
. . The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Section 3
Other Offices
. . Meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or the officer of the Corporation calling the meeting as authorized by the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as it may be amended, restated and/or supplemented from time to time (the "Certificate of Incorporation") and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.
Section 1
Place of Meetings
. . Each Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, at which meeting the stockholders shall elect by a plurality vote one or more directors in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation, and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
Section 2
Annual Meeting
At an Annual Meeting of Stockholders, only such business (other than nominations of directors, which must be made in compliance with, and shall be exclusively governed by, Section 11 of Article III of these Bylaws) shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting (i) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of the meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a
 
stockholder of record at the time of giving the notice provided for in this Section 2 and at the time of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders, who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting and who shall have complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2. Clause (iii) in the immediately preceding sentence shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to submit such business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and included in the Corporation's notice of such meeting) before an Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
For any such business to be properly brought before an Annual Meeting of Stockholders by a stockholder pursuant to this Section 2, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary and such matter must be a proper matter for stockholder action under applicable law. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not less than seventy-five (75) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's Annual Meeting of Stockholders; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders is advanced by more than thirty (30) days or delayed by more than sixty (60) days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the ninetieth (90
th
) day prior to such Annual Meeting of Stockholders and not later than the close of business on the later of the sixtieth (60
th
) day prior to such Annual Meeting of Stockholders or the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an Annual Meeting of Stockholders or the announcement thereof commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Such stockholder's notice shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the Annual Meeting of Stockholders (i) a brief description of the business to be brought before the Annual Meeting of Stockholders and the reasons for conducting such business at such meeting, and the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these Bylaws or the Certificate of Incorporation, the text of the proposed amendment); (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (A) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such stockholder and of such beneficial owner, (B) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation's stock which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (C) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder or beneficial owner and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (D) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder or beneficial owner has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Corporation, (E) any short interest of such stockholder or beneficial owner in any security of the Corporation (for purposes
 
of this Section 2, a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (F) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder or beneficial owner that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (G) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder or beneficial owner is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner, (H) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) to which such stockholder or beneficial owner is entitled based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's or beneficial owner's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), and (I) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; (iii) any material interest of the stockholder, and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, in such business; (iv) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by the stockholder; (v) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation, entitled to vote at such meeting, and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business; and (vi) a representation as to whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends, or is or intends to be part of a group (within the meaning ascribed to that term under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) that intends, (A) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal and/or (B) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal.
Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an Annual Meeting of Stockholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2 (other than nominations of directors, which must be made in compliance with, and shall be exclusively governed by, Section 11 of Article III of these Bylaws). The Chairman of the Board may, if the facts warrant, determine that the business was not properly brought before the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2; and if the Chairman of the Board should so determine, the Chairman of the Board shall so declare to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and any such business not properly brought before the Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2; provided, however, that any references in these Bylaws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the
 
applicable requirements pursuant to this Section 2. Nothing in this Section 2 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act. The provisions of this Section 2 shall also govern what constitutes timely notice for purposes of Rule 14a-4(c) of the Exchange Act.
. . Special meetings of the stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated by the Board of Directors or the officer of the Corporation calling the meeting as authorized by the Certificate of Incorporation and stated in the notice of the meeting. Special meetings of the stockholders, other than those required by statute, may be called only as provided, and for the purposes specified, in the Certificate of Incorporation. Business transacted at a special meeting of the stockholders shall be confined to the matters stated in the notice of such meeting.
Section 3
Special Meetings
. . Written notice of the place (or if held by remote communications, the means of remote communications by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting), date, and time of all meetings of the stockholders shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date on which the meeting is to be held, to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or as required from time to time by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation. The notice of a special meeting shall also state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.
Section 4
Notice of Meetings; Waiver
No notice of any meeting of stockholders need be given to any stockholder who properly waives notice, whether before or after the meeting and whether in writing or by electronic transmission or otherwise. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any meeting need be specified in a waiver of notice. The attendance, whether in person or by proxy, of any stockholder at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except if the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of such meeting, to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
. . At any meeting of stockholders, the holders of a majority of all of the shares of the Corporation's stock entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for all purposes, unless or except to the extent that the presence of a larger number may be required by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation. If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, the chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the shares of the Corporation's stock entitled to vote thereat who are present, in person or by proxy, may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time without notice other than by announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. The stockholders present at any duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of sufficient stockholders to otherwise render the remaining stockholders less than a quorum.
Section 5
Quorum; Adjournment
 
When a meeting is adjourned to another place, date or time, written notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the place, date and time thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; provided, however, that if the date of any adjourned meeting is more than thirty (30) days after the date for which the meeting was originally noticed, or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, written notice of the place, date, and time of the adjourned meeting shall be given in conformity herewith. At any adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
. . At any meeting of the stockholders, every stockholder entitled to vote may vote in person or by proxy authorized by an instrument in writing or in any other manner as may be permitted under applicable law and filed with the Corporation in accordance with the procedure established for the meeting.
Section 6
Proxies and Voting
Each stockholder shall have one vote for every share of stock entitled to vote and registered in his name on the record date for the meeting, except as otherwise provided herein or required by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation.
All voting, including on the election of directors but excepting where otherwise provided herein or required by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation, may be by a voice vote; provided, however, that at the discretion of the chairperson of the meeting, a stock vote shall be taken. Every stock vote shall be taken by ballots, each of which shall state the name of the stockholder or proxy voting and such other information as may be required under the procedure established for the meeting. Every vote taken by ballots shall be counted by an inspector or inspectors appointed by the Board of Directors or the chairperson of the meeting.
Except as provided in Section 3 of Article III of these Bylaws, all elections of directors shall be determined by a plurality of the votes cast, and except as otherwise required by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation, all other matters shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast.
. . A complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders, arranged in alphabetical order for each class of stock and showing the address of each such stockholder (provided that the Corporation shall not be required to include electronic mail addresses or other electronic contact information for stockholders on such list) and the number of shares registered in such stockholder's name, shall be open to the examination of any such stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal executive office of the Corporation.
Section 7
Stock List
The list of stockholders shall also be kept at the place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and shall be open to the examination of any stockholder who is present. This list shall presumptively determine the identity of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting and the number of shares held by each of them.
 
. . The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 1
Duties and Powers
. . The Board of Directors shall consist of one (1) or more members. The number of directors shall be fixed and may be changed from time to time by resolution duly adopted by a majority of the directors then in office, except as otherwise provided by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Directors need not be stockholders.
Section 2
Number and Term of Office
The directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, shall be classified, with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, into three classes: Class I, Class II and Class III. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the whole number of the Board of Directors. The terms of office of the initial classes of directors shall be as follows: the Class I Directors shall be elected to hold office for a term to expire at the first annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, or until his or her earlier resignation or removal; the Class II Directors shall be elected to hold office for a term to expire at the second annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, or until his or her earlier resignation or removal; and the Class III Directors shall be elected to hold office for a term to expire at the third annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, or until his or her earlier resignation or removal, and in the case of each class, until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. At each annual meeting of stockholders the directors elected to succeed those whose terms have expired shall be identified as being of the same class as the directors they succeed and shall be elected to hold office for a term to expire at the third annual meeting of stockholders after their election, or until his or her earlier resignation or removal, and until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified. This paragraph of Article III, Section 2 is also contained in Article TEN, Section (A) of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, and accordingly, may be altered, amended or repealed only to the extent and at the time the comparable Certificate Article is altered, amended or repealed.
. . Except as otherwise fixed pursuant to the provisions of Article FOUR of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors:
Section 3
Vacancies
(a) In case of any increase in the number of directors, the additional director or directors, and in case of any vacancy in the Board of Directors due to death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other reason, the successors to fill the vacancies, shall be elected by a majority of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum, or by a sole
 
remaining director, and the director or directors so chosen shall hold office until the next Annual Meeting or special meeting of stockholders duly called for that purpose and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal.
(b) Directors appointed in the manner provided in paragraph (a) to newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other cause shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which the term of the class to which they have been elected expires.
(c) No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
This Article III, Section 3 is also contained in Article TEN, Section (B) of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, and accordingly, may be altered, amended or repealed only to the extent and at the time the comparable Certificate Article is altered, amended or repealed.
. . The Board of Directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the directors then in office. Notice thereof stating the place (or if held by remote communications, the means of remote communications by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting), date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the date of the meeting, by electronic mail or other electronic transmission, telephone, telegram, facsimile transmission or personal delivery on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. Meetings may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if all those not present waive such notice in accordance with Section 2 of Article VI of these Bylaws.
Section 4
Meetings
. . Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the directors then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. A majority of the directors present at a meeting, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn the meeting to another place or time. No notice need be given of any adjourned meeting unless the place and time of the adjourned meeting are not announced at the time of adjournment, in which case notice conforming to the requirements of Section 4 of this Article III of these Bylaws shall be given to each Director.
Section 5
Quorum; Adjournment
 
. . Unless otherwise provided by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or (to the extent possible) electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Section 6
Actions of Board Without a Meeting
. . Unless otherwise provided by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 7 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 7
Meetings by Means of Remote Communications
. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the directors then in office, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee, subject to applicable law. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member, subject to applicable law. Any committee, to the extent allowed by applicable law and provided in the Bylaw or resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
Section 8
Committees
. . Unless otherwise restricted by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
Section 9
Compensation
. Any director or directors may be removed from office only as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 10.
Removal
 
. . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Bylaws shall be eligible for election as directors. In addition to the right of the Board of Directors of the Corporation to make nominations for the election of directors, nominations for the election of directors may be made by any person who is a stockholder of record both at the time of giving of the notice provided for in this Section 11 and at the time of the applicable Annual Meeting of Stockholders and who shall be entitled to vote for the election of directors at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11.
Section 11
Nomination of Directors
To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director, the prospective nominee (whether nominated by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by a stockholder), or someone acting on such prospective nominee's behalf, must deliver (in accordance with any applicable time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under this Section 11) to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request). Upon request, the prospective nominee must also provide a written representation and agreement, in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request, that such prospective nominee: (A) is not and will not become a party to (i) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such prospective nominee, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such prospective nominee's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such prospective nominee's fiduciary duties under applicable laws; (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein; and (C) would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 11, a "nominee" shall include any person being considered to fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors.
For any proposed nomination by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not less than seventy-five (75) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's Annual Meeting of Stockholders; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders is advanced by more than thirty (30) days or delayed by more than sixty (60) days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered no earlier than then ninetieth (90
th
) day prior to such Annual Meeting of Stockholders and not later than the close of business on the later of the sixtieth (60
th
) day prior to such Annual Meeting of Stockholders or the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, (A) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (including such person's written consent to being named as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), and (B) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three (3) years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is being made, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation, all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, (A) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such stockholder and of such beneficial owner, (B) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation's stock which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record, by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (C) any Derivative Instrument directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder or beneficial owner and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (D) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder or beneficial owner has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Corporation, (E) any short interest of such stockholder or beneficial owner in any security of the Corporation (for purposes of this Section 11, a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (F) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder or beneficial owner that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (G) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder or beneficial owner is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner, (H) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) to which such stockholder or beneficial owner is entitled based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation, any such interests held by members of such stockholder's or beneficial owner's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), and (I) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the
 
Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such nomination; and (iv) a representation as to whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends, or is or intends to be part of a group that intends, (A) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to elect the nominee and/or (B) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such nomination. In addition, the stockholder making such nomination shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation, including, without limitation, information to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent Director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
. . Any nominee for director in an uncontested election who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" from his election than votes "for" such election shall promptly tender his resignation to the Board of Directors. The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Nominating and Governance Committee"), and/or such other committee as may be duly authorized by the Board of Directors, shall evaluate the director's tendered resignation and shall recommend to the Board of Directors whether to accept or reject such resignation or take other action. The Board of Directors shall act to accept or reject such resignation within ninety (90) days following the certification of the election results of the stockholder meeting at which the election of directors was held, and the Corporation shall promptly disclose the Board of Directors' decision and its reasons therefor in a press release, a Current Report on Form 8-K or other periodic filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any other broadly disseminated means of communication. The Nominating and Governance Committee (and any other committee as may be duly authorized by the Board of Directors to make a recommendation to the Board of Directors regarding such resignation) in evaluating such resignation and making its recommendation, and the Board of Directors in making its decision, may each consider any factors or other information that it considers appropriate and relevant.
Section 12
Effect of Withheld Votes in Uncontested Elections for Director
Any director who tenders his resignation pursuant to this policy shall not participate in any consideration of such resignation or any resulting action by the Board of Directors, the Nominating and Governance Committee or any other committee as may be duly authorized by the Board of Directors to consider such resignation or take any resulting action. If such director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until the expiration of such director's term and until his successor is duly elected, or his earlier death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal. If such director's resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors, then the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy or decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and these Bylaws.
 
. . The officers of the Corporation shall be appointed by the Board of Directors and shall consist of a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, such number of Vice Presidents as the Board of Directors shall elect from time to time, a Secretary, a Treasurer (or a position with the duties and responsibilities of a Treasurer) and such other officers and assistant officers (if any) as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws otherwise provide.
Section 1
General
. . Each officer of the Corporation shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors together with the powers and duties customarily exercised by such officer; and each officer of the Corporation shall hold office until such officer's successor is duly elected and qualified or until such officer's earlier death, resignation, retirement, or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. The Board of Directors may at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, remove any officer.
Section 2
Election; Term of Office
. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors and shall have such other duties and powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from time to time. The Board of Directors may also designate one of its members as Vice Chairman of the Board. The Vice Chairman of the Board (if any) shall, during the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, have the powers and perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 3
Chairman of the Board
. . The Chief Executive Officer shall have general charge and control over the affairs of the Corporation, subject to the Board of Directors, shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried out, shall report thereon to the Board of Directors, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 4
Chief Executive Officer
. . The President shall have general and active management of the business of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The President shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be specifically delegated to or vested in the President from time to time by these Bylaws or the Board of Directors. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board or the Vice Chairman of the Board (if any) or in the event of the inability of or refusal to act by the Chairman of the Board or the Vice Chairman of the Board (if any), or if the Board has not designated a Chairman or Vice Chairman, the President shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board, and when so acting, shall have all of the powers and be subject to all of the restrictions upon the Chairman of the Board.
Section 5
President
 
. . In the absence of the President or in the event of his inability or refusal to act, the Vice President (or in the event there be more than one vice president, the vice presidents in the order designated by the directors) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. The vice presidents shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors or the President may from time to time prescribe.
Section 6
Vice President
. . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for the standing committees when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the President. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the President may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest the affixing by his signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be.
Section 7
Secretary
. . Except as may be otherwise provided in these Bylaws, Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the President or the Secretary, and shall have the authority to perform all functions of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
Section 8
Assistant Secretaries
. . The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities, shall keep complete and accurate accounts of all receipts and disbursements of the Corporation, and shall deposit all monies and other valuable effects of the Corporation in its name and to its credit in such banks and other depositories as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or any designee of the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation, taking proper vouchers and receipts for such disbursements. The Treasurer shall, when and if required by the Board of Directors, give and file with the Corporation a bond, in such form and amount and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors, for the faithful performance of his duties as Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the President shall from time to time prescribe.
Section 9
Treasurer
 
. . Except as may be otherwise provided in these Bylaws, Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the President or the Treasurer, and shall have the authority to perform all functions of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer.
Section 10
Assistant Treasurers
. . Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Section 11
Other Officers
. . The shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares evidenced by registration in book-entry accounts, in accordance with applicable law. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock in the Corporation represented by a certificate, and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares of stock in the Corporation, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed, in the name of the Corporation (i) by the Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President and (ii) by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation.
Section 1
Form of Certificates; Uncertificated Shares
. . Any or all of the signatures on a certificate representing stock of the Corporation may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate representing stock of the Corporation shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, such certificate may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 2
Signatures
. . The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued or an appropriate book-entry to be recorded in place of any certificate representing stock of the Corporation theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or book-entry recording, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Section 3
Lost Certificates
 
. . Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these Bylaws. Transfers of such stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the person named in the applicable certificate or book-entry recording or by such person's attorney lawfully constituted in writing and upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, which shall be cancelled before a new certificate shall be issued, or upon the transfer of such stock by appropriate book-entry procedures. Subject to the provisions of applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation and these Bylaws, the Board of Directors may prescribe such additional rules and regulations as it may deem appropriate relating to the issue, transfer and registration of stock of the Corporation.
Section 4
Transfers
. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Section 5
Record Date
. . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law.
Section 6
Beneficial Owners
. . Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Section 7
Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation
 
. . Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, to be given to any director, member of a committee of the Board of Directors or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail or be given personally or by telegram, facsimile transmission, telex, cable or other electronic transmission. If any such notice is mailed, it shall be deemed to have been given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the recipient at the recipient's address as it appears in the records of the Corporation, or, if the recipient shall have filed with the Secretary a written request that notices to the recipient be mailed to another address, then directed to the recipient at such other address. Notice shall be deemed to be given (i) if given by facsimile, when directed to a facsimile number at which the recipient has consented to receive notices; (ii) if given by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the recipient has consented to receive notices; (iii) if given by posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the recipient of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice in accordance with this Section 1; and (iv) if given by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the recipient in a manner reasonably expected to cause the recipient to receive such notice. For purposes of these Bylaws, "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
Section 1
Notices
. . Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws to be given to any director, member or a committee or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing or submitted by an electronic transmission, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice.
Section 2
Waiver of Notice
. . Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting or by any committee of the Board of Directors having such authority at any meeting thereof, and may be paid in cash, in property, in shares of the capital stock or in any combination thereof. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Section 1
Dividends
 
. . All notes, checks, drafts and orders for the payment of money issued by the Corporation shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by such officers or such other persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Section 2
Disbursements
. . The corporate seal, if the Corporation shall have a corporate seal, shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware". The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Section 3
Corporation Seal
Except as otherwise specifically stated within an Article to be altered, amended or repealed, these Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed and new Bylaws may be adopted at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting.
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall govern the construction of these Bylaws. Without limiting the generality of this provision, (i) the singular number includes the plural, (ii) the plural number includes the singular, (iii) the term "person" includes a natural person, a corporation or any other entity of any type, (iv) the masculine gender includes the feminine gender and vice versa and (v) all references in these Bylaws to officers with a particular title shall be to officers of the Corporation holding such title, unless the context of such reference provides otherwise. All restrictions, limitations, requirements and other provisions of these Bylaws shall be construed, insofar as possible, as supplemental and additional to all provisions of law applicable to the subject matter thereof and shall be fully complied with in addition to the said provisions of law unless such compliance shall be illegal. Any article, section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause or phrase of these Bylaws which upon being construed in the manner provided in this Article IX shall be contrary to or inconsistent with any applicable provisions of law, shall not apply so long as said provisions of law shall remain in effect, but such result shall not affect the validity or applicability of any other portions of these Bylaws, it being hereby declared that these Bylaws would have been adopted and each article, section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more articles, sections, subsections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses or phrases is or are illegal. All references in these Bylaws to any statute, law, regulation or rule also shall include any successor statute, law, regulation or rule, as the case may be.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Pittsburgh, PA  September 7, 2012  Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE: ATI) announced today that Carolyn Corvi has been elected to the ATI Board of Directors. Her election increases the number of directors to eleven.
Ms. Corvi, 60, retired from a thirty-four year career with The Boeing Company in December 2008, where she had most recently served as Vice President, General Manager of Airplane Programs, Boeing Commercial Airplanes. Ms. Corvi currently is a director of United Continental Holdings, Inc., parent company to United Airlines, and is a former director of Goodrich Corporation.
"We are pleased to welcome Carolyn to the ATI Board. Carolyn has extensive experience in the aerospace industry, one of ATI's key global end markets. Her depth of knowledge and management experience in commercial aircraft manufacturing is firmly aligned to support ATI's strategy for future growth," said Rich Harshman, ATI's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
Ms. Corvi has been appointed to serve on the Audit Committee and the Technology Committee and will stand for election at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of approximately $5.3 billion for the last twelve months. ATI has approximately 11,400 full-time employees worldwide who use innovative technologies to offer global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, oil and gas/chemical process industry, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, niobium, tungsten materials, forgings, castings, and fabrication and machining capabilities. The ATI website is .
www.ATImetals.com


