FILE:ATI/ATI-8K-20120314165535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 14, 2012, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated announced that its Rowley, UT titanium sponge facility has completed the standard-grade qualification process. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
99.1     Press Release dated March 14, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 14, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
Pittsburgh, PA, March 14, 2012  Allegheny Technologies Incorporated (NYSE:ATI) announced today that its Rowley, UT titanium sponge facility has completed the standard-grade qualification (SQ) process. Titanium sponge produced at the Rowley facility can now be applied to many products used for aerospace airframe, medical, and industrial applications.
"This is an important accomplishment as we continue the process of achieving our strategic goal of a cost-effective premium-titanium sponge facility," said Rich Harshman, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This approval follows an extensive series of audits, inspections, and qualifications to characterize the attributes of the sponge produced at the Rowley facility.
"The qualification comes at an historic time in the aerospace industry as OEMs increase production to unprecedented rates for both airframes and jet engines. We are also seeing increased demand from the jet engine aftermarket. In addition, demand remains strong for our titanium products from the medical and industrial markets."
Titanium sponge is a critical raw material used to produce titanium mill products. The ATI Rowley facility uses the Kroll reduction - vacuum distillation process, which reduces titanium tetrachloride with magnesium to produce the sponge.
Building the World's Best Specialty Metals Company
Allegheny Technologies Incorporated is one of the largest and most diversified specialty metals producers in the world with revenues of approximately $5.2 billion during 2011. ATI has approximately 11,400 full-time employees world-wide who use innovative technologies to offer global markets a wide range of specialty metals solutions. Our major markets are aerospace and defense, oil and gas/chemical process industry, electrical energy, medical, automotive, food equipment and appliance, machine and cutting tools, and construction and mining. Our products include titanium and titanium alloys, nickel-based alloys and superalloys, grain-oriented electrical steel, stainless and specialty steels, zirconium, hafnium, niobium, tungsten materials, forgings, castings, and fabrication and machining capabilities. The ATI website is www.ATImetals.com.


