FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20020906155831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 September 3, 2002 (Date of earliest event reported)
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure During Exelon's investor call on September 3, 2002, Exelon disclosed that anticipated savings from its Cost Management Initiative at Exelon Energy Delivery for 2002 could total approximately $90 million. These savings represent an internal target, which has not been validated. Additionally, the savings have only been partially booked and may included one-time savings rather than sustainable savings. As previously disclosed, Exelon believes that it is on track to exceed its $200 million goal for sustainable savings from its Cost Management Initiative in 2002, and has attained $133 million in savings through July 30, 2002. This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained herein. The forward-looking statements herein include statements about future financial and operating results of Exelon Corporation, Commonwealth Edison Company and PECO Energy Company (Registrants). Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Registrant's businesses generally could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, please see Exelon's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly those discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Outlook" in Exelon's 2001 Annual Report and those discussed in "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exelon Generation Company, LLC's Registration Statement on Form S-4, Reg. No. 333-85496. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Registrants do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. EXELON CORPORATION COMMONWEALTH EDISON COMPANY PECO ENERGY COMPANY /S/ Ruth Ann M. Gillis ----------------------------------- Ruth Ann M. Gillis Senior Vice President Exelon Corporation September 6, 2002


