FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20020918171332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 September 18, 2002 (Date of earliest event reported)
Item 9. Regulation FD On September 18, 2002, John W. Rowe, Chairman and CEO, made a presentation at the Merrill Lynch Global Power and Gas Leaders Conference in New York City. John Rowe commented that the outlook for Exelon's third quarter 2002 operating results looks positive. He also indicated that during the third quarter conference call on October 30, 2002, Exelon plans to tighten the range of its guidance for 2002 earnings and give a range of guidance for 2003 earnings. Exelon believes that it has the opportunity to meet current expectations for 2003. It expects that the current 2003 consensus estimate of $4.89 per share will be in the guidance range and may be closer to the upper end of the range that Exelon plans to provide during the conference call. As previously disclosed, Exelon believes the allocation of goodwill to ComEd's transmission and distribution business is in compliance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Several meetings have been held with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Chairman and Commissioners and accounting staff and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) staff. The FERC and the SEC are still reviewing the issue and are aware of the importance of the issue. Exelon hopes to hear from the commissions relatively soon and is optimistic about its discussions with the FERC and the SEC. This report contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations contained herein. The forward-looking statements herein include statements about future financial and operating results of Exelon Corporation, Commonwealth Edison Company, PECO Energy Company and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Registrants). Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Registrant's businesses generally could cause actual results to differ materially from those described herein. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, please see Exelon's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, particularly those discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Outlook" in Exelon's 2001 Annual Report and those discussed in "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Exelon Generation Company, LLC's Registration Statement on Form S-4, Reg. No. 333-85496. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Registrants do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. EXELON CORPORATION COMMONWEALTH EDISON COMPANY PECO ENERGY COMPANY EXELON GENERATION COMPANY, LLC /S/ Ruth Ann M. Gillis ------------------------------------ Ruth Ann M. Gillis Senior Vice President Exelon Corporation September 18, 2002


