FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20031031144245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 October 31, 2003 (Date of earliest event reported)
Item 5. Other Events A. On October 31, 2003, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) announced via news release the replacement of its $1.5 billion credit facility. A copy of Exelon's news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. B. Additional information regarding the outstanding debt of Exelon and its subsidiaries as of September 30, 2003 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. Exhibit Index Exhibit No. Description 99.1 News release announcing the replacement of Exelon's $1.5 billion credit facility 99.2 Additional information regarding the outstanding debt of Exelon and its subsidiaries This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant. Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K - ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K - ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon - Note 19, ComEd - Note 16, PECO - Note 18 and Generation - Note 13 and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. EXELON CORPORATION COMMONWEALTH EDISON COMPANY PECO ENERGY COMPANY EXELON GENERATION COMPANY, LLC /s/ Robert S. Shapard ---------------------- Robert S. Shapard Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Exelon Corporation October 31, 2003

Exhibit 99.1 [EXELON LOGO] - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- News Release From: Exelon Corporation For Immediate Release Corporate Communications --------------------- P.O. Box 805379 October 31, 2003 Chicago, IL 60680-5379 Contact: Linda Marsicano, 312.394.3099, Exelon Exelon Corporation Replaces $1.5 Billion Credit Facility Chicago (October 31, 2003) - Exelon Corporation (NYSE:EXC) announced today the replacement of its $1.5 billion credit facility, which expires in November. Exelon, along with ComEd, PECO and Exelon Generation, will participate in the new $1.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. The credit facility is equally split into a $750 million 364-day agreement and a $750 million 3-year agreement with twenty-three banks and was substantially over-subscribed. The facility will be used principally to support the commercial paper programs at the Exelon holding company level and at ComEd, PECO and Exelon Generation and the issuance of letters of credit. The credit facility also includes a term-out option that would allow Exelon to extend the 364-day agreement for an additional one year. "The strong credit support received from the banking community is indicative of the strength of our banking relationships," said Barry Mitchell, Exelon's Senior Vice President and Treasurer. "We continue to be committed to improving the financial performance of our core operations and strengthening our balance sheet." ### Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately 5 million customers and more than $15 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5 million customers in Illinois and Pennsylvania and gas to more than 440,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.

Exhibit 99.2 Exelon Corporation Long-Term Debt Outstanding By Issue As of September 30, 2003 (in millions)


