FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20030806084913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
On August 6, 2003, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) issued a news release reaffirming 2003 guidance and announcing workforce reductions related to The Exelon Way. The news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 6, 2003, Exelon held an investor conference in New York City. The slides and handouts used in the presentation are attached as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3.
Exhibit Index
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K  ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K  ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon  Note 19, ComEd  Note 16, PECO  Note 18 and Generation  Note 13 and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
(August 6, 2003)  Senior executives with Exelon Corporation met with investors and analysts today in New York City to update the financial community on progress of The Exelon Way, the company's program aimed to improve cash flow by $300  $600 million in cash savings annually by focusing on operational excellence, simplifying procedures and standardizing processes.
CHICAGO
Exelon reaffirmed its guidance for 2003 of earnings per share at the upper end of a range of $4.80 to $5.00 and provided guidance of between $5.15 and $5.45 per share for 2004.
As part of The Exelon Way, approximately 1,200 positions are targeted for elimination by 2004, and another 700 by 2006. Positions identified for elimination in 2003 will be complete by November. The majority of the reductions will come from professional and management employees. Overall, Exelon targets to reduce its workforce by about 1900 positions  or 10 percent  by 2006.
"Exelon is committed to treating its employees fairly and will facilitate voluntary separation agreements wherever possible, " says Chairman and CEO John Rowe. "To that end, we are providing an updated and improved severance package for all affected employees."
Eliminating redundancies in job functions is only one aspect of The Exelon Way. The program also focuses on streamlining operations, realigning our supply chain and information technology structure, and realizing opportunities for process improvements throughout the organization.
 
page 2

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rate Reductions
Direct Access Phase-In Schedule
     All C&I customers had supplier choice effective 12/31/00.
Transition Cost Recovery Provisions
(See current and proposed delivery rate schedules attached.)
Mitigation Factor
The mitigation factor is a credit averaging 0.5 cents/kWh offered by the utility to delivery service only customers.
 
Transition Period Provision
During the transition period utilities will be able to recognize, sell or assign assets; retire or remove plants from service; unbundle or restructure tariffs on a revenue neutral basis (with impact limitations described in Earnings and Viability below); accelerate depreciation or amortization or assets without ICC approval. The ICC could intercede if it believed the transaction jeopardized reliable service.
Earnings and Viability
The maximum allowable rate of return will be pegged to the 30-year T-Bond rate, plus 8.5%. If earnings exceed the allowed rate of return by more than 1.5%, 50% of the excess earnings would be shared with customers. If the rate of return is below the T-bond Rate, the utilities can apply to the ICC for a rate increase.
Securitization
Utilities are allowed to utilize securitization of transition period revenues as a means to mitigate stranded costs. The proceeds primarily are to be used to retire debt and equity, and to repay or retire fuel obligations if the Commission finds such use is the public interest.
Amount allowable for securitization is capped by 50% of capitalization. In December 1998, ComEd securitized $3.4 billion.
 
 
 
 
April 28, 2003 Attachment B1:p 1 of 1
Notes:
 
April 28, 2003 Attachment B1 R:p 1 of 1
Notes:
 
 
PECO ENERGY
This summary of the major elements of the 1998 settlement reflects amendments made in 2000 following announcement of the PECO Unicom merger.
 
PECO ENERGY
Schedule of Rates
Notes:
2
 
PECO ENERGY
CTC Amortization
Other Features
3
 
 
 


