FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20030506172153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 May 2, 2003 (Date of earliest event reported)
Item 5. Other Events. On May 2, 2003, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) issued a news release announcing that Richard H. Glanton has accepted the position as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, effective May 5, 2003. As he joins Exelon, Glanton will relinquish his directorship on the Exelon Board. The news release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. EXELON CORPORATION /s/ Robert S. Shapard ------------------------- Robert S. Shapard Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Exelon Corporation May 6, 2003

Exhibit 99 [Logo Omitted] - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- News Release FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE --------------------- From: Exelon May 2, 2003 Corporate Communications P.O. Box 805379 Chicago, IL 60680-5379 Contact: Linda Marsicano, Media Relations 312.394.3099 Richard H. Glanton Joins Exelon Corporation as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development Chicago (May 2, 2003) - Exelon Corporation announced today that Richard H. Glanton, 56, has accepted the position of Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, effective May 5, 2003. Glanton will have leadership responsibilities for corporate development issues and will report of Executive Vice President and General Counsel Randall E. Mehrberg. "As an Exelon Board Director, Richard has been fundamental in the success of the merger between Unicom and PECO Energy," said Exelon CEO John Rowe. "In his new position, I'm confident that Richard's expertise and knowledge will support Exelon in evaluating and prioritizing acquisition opportunities that best employ our resources in our consolidating industry." Prior to joining Exelon, Glanton was a partner in the General Corporate Group of the law firm of Reed, Smith, Shaw and McClay, LLP. Glanton had a broad practice representing public, private, non-profit and governmental agencies, institutions and organizations. He advised clients on a wide variety of corporate matters. Glanton was a member of the Board of PECO Energy for several years before it merged with Unicom to form Exelon. He has been a member of the Exelon Board since its inception, October 20, 2000. As he joins the corporation, Glanton will relinquish his directorship on the Exelon Board. Formerly, Glanton was Deputy Counsel to Richard L. Thornburgh, previous Governor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and managed approximately 150 lawyers assigned to the executive agencies of the Commonwealth. Glanton is Chairman of Philadelphia Television Network and a member of the board of directors of Philadelphia Suburban Corporation, and Wackenhut Corrections Corporation. He also served on the Board of General Accident Insurance Company. In addition, Glanton served as President of the Barnes Foundation, located in Lower Merion, Pennsylvania, from June of 1990 to February of 1998. He received his B.A. in English from West Georgia College in 1968, and his J.D. from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1972. ###
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately 5 million customers and more than $15 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5 million customers in Illinois and Pennsylvania and gas to more than 440,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.


