FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20030710202141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 July 3, 2003 (Date of earliest event reported)
Item 5. Other Events. As previously disclosed, Exelon Boston Generating, LLC (EBG), an indirect subsidiary of Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation), has $1.1 billion of debt outstanding under a $1.25 billion credit facility (EBG Facility). The EBG Facility was entered into primarily to finance the construction of the Mystic 8 and 9 and Fore River generating units. The EBG Facility requires that all of the projects achieve "Project Completion," as defined in the EBG Facility (Project Completion), by June 12, 2003. On June 11, 2003, EBG negotiated an extension of the Project Completion date to July 11, 2003. Mystic 8 and 9 are in commercial operation, although construction has not progressed to the point of Project Completion. Construction of Fore River is substantially complete and the unit is currently undergoing testing. EBG does not anticipate that the projects will achieve Project Completion by July 11, 2003. The EBG Facility is non-recourse to Exelon and Generation and an event of default under the EBG Facility does not constitute an event of default under any other debt instruments of Exelon or its subsidiaries. The lenders under the EBG Facility and EBG have executed a letter agreement as a result of which the lenders are precluded during the period July 11, 2003 through August 29, 2003 from exercising any remedies resulting from the failure of all of the projects to achieve Project Completion. EBG does not anticipate that the projects will achieve Project Completion by August 29, 2003. The agreement provides that the lenders' obligation to make advances to EBG will remain suspended during this period. EBG is continuing to monitor the projects and to assess all of its options relating to the projects, and is continuing discussions with the lenders. EBG cannot predict what actions may be taken prior to August 29, 2003, or what action the lenders may take subsequent to August 29, 2003. Generation's investment in EBG is approximately $700 million. Depending upon the ultimate outcome, Generation may incur an impairment related to its investment in EBG. Additionally, EBG has reclassified all borrowings under the EBG Facility as current liabilities. This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Exelon and Generation (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those discussed herein, as well as those discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K - ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K - ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon - Note 19, ComEd - Note 16, PECO - Note 18 and Generation - Note 13 and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. EXELON CORPORATION EXELON GENERATION COMPANY, LLC /S/ Robert S. Shapard ------------------------------------ Robert S. Shapard Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Exelon Corporation July 10, 2003


