FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20030917172725.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 17, 2003, John W. Rowe, Chairman and Chief Executive of Exelon Corporation (Exelon), spoke at a dinner during the Merrill Lynch Power and Gas Leaders conference held in New York City. Attached as Exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the slides and handouts used in the presentation, including reconciliations of operating earnings to GAAP earnings.
He commented that Exelon expects strong third quarter 2003 operating earnings, following strong first and second quarters. July and August 2003 were ahead of expectations. Accordingly, he indicated that Exelon expects that its third quarter operating earnings will exceed the current consensus estimate, and that Exelon anticipates that its operating earnings for the full year 2003 will be greater than the upper end of the range of $4.80-$5.00 that has been its operating earnings guidance. He said that when Exelon announces its results for the third quarter, it will raise its guidance for full year 2003 operating earnings and it will update its guidance for 2004 operating earnings.
Exhibit Index
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K  ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2002 Annual Report on Form 10-K  ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon  Note 19, ComEd  Note 16, PECO  Note 18 and Generation  Note 13 and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
2003 Earnings Guidance
Exelon's full year 2003 operating earnings are expected to be toward the top of a range of $4.80 to $5.00 per share. The earnings guidance is based on the assumption of normal weather for the second half of 2003 and excludes the first quarter $0.34 per share gain from the cumulative effect for the change in accounting principle (SFAS 143), the net $0.05 per share charge related to the March 3 ComEd settlement agreement and the $0.40 per share impairment of our Sithe Energies investment. Our operating earnings guidance also excludes the second quarter $0.09 per share loss related to the sale of our InfraSource business. Operating earnings guidance excludes any potential impairment related to Exelon Boston Generating.
2004 Earnings Guidance
Exelon's full year 2004 operating earnings are expected to be in the range of $5.15 to $5.45 per share. The earnings guidance is based on the assumption of normal weather and excludes any potential earnings or losses related to Exelon Boston Generating.


