FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20041220093322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Table of Contents
      
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[X] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Table of Contents
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events
On December 20, 2004, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) issued a joint news release announcing that they have entered into a definitive agreement for a merger of the two companies. The news release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
A webcast teleconference will be held by Exelon and PSEG for the investment community and the media on December 20, 2004, at 1:00 P.M. Eastern Time. The dial in number for the teleconference will be 800-289-0572 (domestic) or 913-981-5543 (international). The webcast can also be accessed through Exelon's website at www.exeloncorp.com' or PSEG's website at www.pseg.com'.
Exelon and PSEG will also host a press conference on December 20, 2004, at 2:30 P.M. Eastern Time at PSEG's headquarters located at 80 Park Plaza, rooms 206-207, Newark, NJ. The press conference will also be available by teleconference and webcast. The dial in numbers for the press call will be 800-406-5356 (domestic) or 913-981-5572 (international). A replay of the press call will be available by dialing 888-203-1112 (domestic) or 719-457-0820 (international) and using access code:175664.
A general description of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 20, 2004, between Exelon and PSEG, is included in the news release attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1, which is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Agreement and Plan of Merger will be filed in a separate report.
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (collectively, the Exelon Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Exelon Registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No individual Exelon Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Exelon Registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this report constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding benefits of the proposed merger, integration plans, and expected synergies, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth. These statements are based on the current expectations of management of the Exelon Registrants, and the current expectations of management of PSEG, Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEG Power LLC (PSEG Power), and PSEG Energy Holdings LLC (PSEG Holdings and together with PSEG, PSE&G and PSEG Power, the PSEG Registrants). There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this report. For example, (1) the companies may be unable to obtain shareholder approvals required for the merger; (2) the companies may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals required for the merger, or required regulatory approvals may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or cause the companies to abandon the merger; (3) conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied; (4) an unsolicited offer of another company to acquire assets or capital stock of Exelon or PSEG could interfere with the merger; (5) problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of the companies, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; (6) the combined company may be unable to achieve cost-cutting synergies or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; (7) the merger may involve unexpected costs or unexpected liabilities, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from the companies' expectations; (8) the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect; (9) the businesses of the companies may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the merger; (10) the companies may experience more difficulties than expected in achieving operating improvements at jointly owned nuclear generating
Table of Contents
facilities; (11) the companies may not realize the values expected to be obtained for properties expected or required to be divested; (12) the industry may be subject to future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and (13) the companies may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of the combined company. A discussion of some of these other important factors and assumptions is contained in the Exelon Registrants' and PSEG Registrants' respective filings with the SEC, including: (1) the Exelon Registrants' 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for Each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation; (2) the Exelon Registrants' 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon  Note 19, ComEd  Note 15, PECO  Note 14 and Generation  Note 13; and (3) the PSEG Registrants' Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2004  Forward Looking Statements. These risks, as well as other risks associated with the merger, will be more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Exelon will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this report may not occur. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. None of the Exelon Registrants or PSEG Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
December 20, 2004

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
News Release
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Michael Metzner, (312) 394-7696 Media Relations: Don Kirchoffner, (312) 394-3001
Exelon
Investor Relations: Brian Smith, (973) 430-6564 Media Relations: Paul Rosengren, (973) 430-5911
PSEG
Steven Lipin/Michael Buckley, 212-333-3810
Brunswick Group:
Exelon to Provide Operating Assistance for PSEG's Nuclear Plants Commencing January 2005
CHICAGO and NEWARK (December 20, 2004)Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC) and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (NYSE: PEG) announced today that they have entered into a definitive merger agreement to create Exelon Electric & Gas, the nation's largest utility. The merger, which has been unanimously approved by both companies' boards of directors, will create a combined company with total assets of approximately $79 billion, serving seven million electric customers and two million gas customers in Illinois, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The combination of three utility franchises in three different states with service areas encompassing more than 18 million people will also allow for improved service and reliability with greater earnings predictability. The transaction is anticipated to be immediately accretive to both companies' earnings per share after closing.
The new company will have approximately $27 billion in annual revenues and $3.2 billion in annual net income. With a generation portfolio of approximately 52 thousand megawatts of domestic capacity, including long-term contracts, the combined company will be the nation's largest power generator and will be a leading U.S. wholesale power marketer. By sharing resources and best
 
Page 2
practices, the merger will enhance operations and create efficiencies at all levels of the new company, including generation, transmission, distribution and power marketing.
Under the merger agreement, each common share of PSEG will be converted into 1.225 shares of Exelon. Following the merger, PSEG stockholders will own approximately 32%, or 306 million of Exelon Electric & Gas' pro-forma shares outstanding, and Exelon shareholders will own approximately 68%, or 650 million shares.
John W. Rowe, currently chairman, president and chief executive officer of Exelon, will become the president and chief executive officer of Exelon Electric & Gas upon completion of the merger and will be responsible for all operations of the combined company. Upon completion of the merger, E. James Ferland, currently chairman, president and chief executive officer of PSEG, will become non-executive chairman of the board of Exelon Electric & Gas until his planned retirement in the spring of 2007. The new board will be comprised initially of 12 members nominated by Exelon and 6 members nominated by PSEG.
Mr. Rowe said: "The combination of Exelon and PSEG is a compelling transaction that satisfies our stated criteria for a merger. It is accretive with sound returns, it can be accomplished without compromising our financial integrity, and it creates a strategic mix of assets. With complementary skills and common regulatory frameworks in three competitive state jurisdictions, all within the same regional transmission organization, we can create additional scale and scope that will provide operational synergies well into the future. This combination is a natural next step on the part of two companies whose assets, geography and strategies complement one another and whose partnership history is already established."
Mr. Ferland said: "This is a truly unique opportunity for two major companies. Exelon is the leader in the nuclear generation business and will have an immediate positive impact on our operations. By contrast, we are highly regarded for our expertise in transmission and distribution operations and retail auctions, which will be a valuable addition to Exelon's business. John Rowe will bring a wealth of executive experience and success to the new and larger organization. He is a good, strong leader who understands how to accomplish what we both envision: the creation of the ideal business model for the utility industry. Together with the talented employees of both companies, John will build a new business that will grow shareholder value and serve all our constituencies well."
Benefits of the Merger
The merger will deliver significant value to customers and shareholders of both companies:
 
Page 3
 
Page 4
 
Page 5
Dividend Policy
It is anticipated that the new company's Board of Directors will maintain Exelon's current dividend payout policy of 50% to 60% of earnings. The merger agreement stipulates that at closing, after giving effect to the exchange ratio in the merger, PSEG shareholders receive the same aggregate cash dividends on the Exelon Electric & Gas shares that they were receiving on their position in PSEG shares prior to the merger. In order to reflect a consistent payout, assuming a 4-cent annual dividend increase by PSEG in 2005 to $2.24 per share, Exelon would expect to raise its annual dividend from $1.60 to approximately $1.83 per share in 2005 immediately prior to the close of the merger, assuming a year-end 2005 close.
Headquarters
Following the merger, Exelon Electric & Gas will have its corporate headquarters in Chicago, the current location of Exelon's headquarters, and the company's energy trading operations and nuclear headquarters will be located in Pennsylvania. The headquarters of the combined generation company will be located in Newark, as will the PSE&G headquarters. This latter arrangement is similar to Exelon's continued significant presence in Philadelphia following the merger of Unicom Corporation (then parent company of ComEd) and PECO Energy in 2000.
Approvals and Timing
The merger is conditioned upon, among other things, the approval by shareholders of both companies, antitrust clearance and a number of regulatory approvals or reviews by federal and state energy authorities. These include the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission, the Illinois Commerce Commission (notice filing only), the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and either the Department of Justice (DOJ) or the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), depending upon which agency reviews the transaction. The companies intend to register the new company as a holding company with the SEC under the Public Utility Holding Company Act. The companies anticipate that the regulatory approvals can be obtained within 12  15 months and intend to seek shareholder approval in the second quarter of 2005.
The FERC and antitrust agency reviews will encompass a detailed review of the effect of the merger on wholesale competition and regulation. The company will work to secure necessary government approvals consistent with FERC's Merger Policy Statement and the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act.
Advisors
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc. are serving as financial advisors to Exelon, and Morgan Stanley is serving as financial advisor to PSEG. Sidley Austin Brown & Wood LLP is serving as transaction counsel to Exelon, and Pillsbury Winthrop LLP is serving as transaction counsel to PSEG. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is serving as regulatory counsel for Exelon, and Steptoe & Johnson LLP is serving as regulatory counsel to PSEG.
 
Page 6
Investor/Media Meeting and Webcast
Exelon and PSEG will hold a teleconference and webcast for the investment community and the media today at 1:00 PM EST. The dial in numbers for the call will be (800) 289-0572 (domestic) or ( 913)-981-5543 (international). It can also be accessed through both companies' websites at: www.exeloncorp.com and www.pseg.com.
A telephonic replay of the call will be available until December 28, 2004. The replay numbers are (888) 203-1112 and (719) 457-0820. The access code is 840128.
Exelon and PSEG will also host a press conference today, December 20, 2004 at 2:30 PM EST at PSEG's headquarters, located at 80 Park Plaza, Rooms 206-207, Newark, NJ. The press conference will also be available by teleconference and webcast. The dial in numbers for the press call will be (800) 406-5356 (domestic) or (913) 981-5572 (international). A replay of this call will be available by dialing (888) 203-1112 (domestic) or (719) 457-0820 (international) access code: 175664.
In addition, a satellite feed of today's press conference will be available simultaneously with the event. The details for the downlink are as follows and the feed is free for unrestricted use:
Satellite  Galaxy 11 Band  Ku Transponder  15 Orbital Slot  91 Degrees West DL Frequency  12003 MHz Polarity  Horizontal Audio Subcarrier  6.2/6.8
Corporate Profiles
Exelon is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately 5.1 million customers and more than $15 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.1 million customers in Illinois and Pennsylvania and gas to more than 460,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC. For more information visit the company's website at www.exeloncorp.com.
PSEG is a major integrated energy and generation company with more than $10 billion in annual revenues. It serves about 2 million electric and 1.6 million gas customers in New Jersey. The company operates a large fleet of generating stations with diverse fuel and dispatch characteristics, largely in the PJM interchange. PSEG is headquartered in Newark, New Jersey and trades on the NYSE under the ticker PEG. For more information, visit the company's website at www.pseg.com
 
Page 7
Additional Information
This communication is not a solicitation of a proxy from any security holder of Exelon or Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. Exelon intends to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement that will include a joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents to be mailed to security holders in connection with the proposed merger of Exelon and PSEG. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT EXELON, PSEG AND THE PROPOSED MERGER. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus (when it becomes available) may be obtained free of charge from Exelon, Investor Relations, 10 South Dearborn Street, P.O. Box 805398, Chicago, Illinois 60680-5398, or from PSEG, Investor Relations, 80 Park Plaza, P.O. Box 1171, Newark, New Jersey 07101-1171.
The respective directors and executive officers of Exelon and PSEG and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Exelon's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by Exelon on March 12, 2004, and information regarding PSEG's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by PSEG on March 10, 2004. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
This document includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, for example, statements regarding benefits of the proposed merger, integration plans and expected synergies, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made herein. A discussion of some of these risks and uncertainties is contained or referred to in the Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 20, 2004 by Exelon and PSEG, respectively. These risks, as well as other risks associated with the merger, will be more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Exelon will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document. Neither Exelon nor PSEG undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.


