FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20040819081303.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 19, 2004, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) will hold an investor conference in New York City. Attached as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K are a news release regarding the conference and the slides and handouts to be used at the meeting.
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K  ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K  ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon  Note 19, ComEd  Note 15, PECO  Note 14 and Generation  Note 13 and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
CHICAGO (Aug. 19, 2004)  Exelon today raised its guidance for 2004 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings per share to a range of $2.75 to $2.90. The company also provided guidance of between $2.85 and $3.05 for 2005 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings per share during a conference with analysts and investors today. The company's earnings guidance is based on the assumption of normal weather in the second half of 2004 and the full year of 2005.
Drivers of earnings growth in 2005 and beyond include continued savings from The Exelon Way, higher wholesale prices, load growth and lower interest expense.
Chief Financial Officer Bob Shapard said Exelon is also on track to meet its free cash flow goal and its Exelon Way cost savings targets for the year. The Exelon Way is the company's broad initiative to improve cash flow by $300 - $600 million annually by focusing on operational excellence, simplifying procedures and standardizing processes.
"Since its inception, Exelon has provided its shareholders with one of the best total returns in our industry. Moreover, we still have room to grow, both in share price and in dividend," said John W. Rowe, Exelon's chairman and chief executive officer.
Exelon expects to generate $3.7 billion of cash from 2004 through 2006 after funding capital expenditures and its current level of dividends. According to Shapard, roughly $2.7 billion of this cash will be used to retire debt, including $1.2 billion of ComEd debt retirements this year. More than $1 billion in cash will remain available for other uses such as increased dividends and stock buybacks. Exelon recently announced it will target a dividend payout of 50 to 60 percent of ongoing earnings beginning in 2005. The intended dividend payout rate depends on Exelon achieving its objectives, including planned cash flow and balance sheet strengthening, which Shapard said Exelon is well on its way to achieve. The Board of Directors must approve the dividends each quarter after review of Exelon's circumstances at the time.
Exelon also provided an update on Illinois' transition to a fully competitive electricity market at the end of 2006. Retail rates were cut by 20 percent in 1997 and have since been frozen. ComEd, along with other marketplace participants, is participating in a series of workshops hosted by the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) to resolve outstanding issues associated with the end of the transition
 
period. Workshops will be completed in September, with an ICC report to the Illinois General Assembly planned for this fall.
A Web cast of the investor conference will be archived and available on the Investor Relations section of Exelon's Web site (www.exeloncorp.com).

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix:
EPS figures reflect 2-for-1 stock split effective 5/5/04. Three-year 2003/2000 compound annual growth rate (CAGR): $1.38/$1.44 = - -1.4% based on GAAP reported results. Three-year 2003/2000 CAGR: $2.61/$1.93 = 10.6% based on adjusted (non-GAAP) operating results.
Note:
 
Appendix:
Stock OwnershipJohn W. Rowe
As of August 16, 2004:
Stock ownership goal under Exelon's stock ownership requirement: 229,446
Shares owned by Mr. Rowe (including deferred shares and shares held by his spouse): 387,780
Stock options held by Mr. Rowe:
Vested: 1,997,239
Unvested: 795,833
Note: Mr. Rowe has a 10b5-1 plan to exercise and sell before the end of February 2005 the remaining 171,872 options under the original option grant he received when he became Chairman and CEO of Unicom in March 1998.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PECO ENERGY
This summary of the major elements of the 1998 settlement reflects amendments made in 2000 following announcement of the PECO Unicom merger.
 
PECO ENERGY
Schedule of Rates
Notes:
 
PECO ENERGY
CTC Amortization
Other Features
 
 
Rate Reductions
     All C&I customers had supplier choice effective 12/31/00.
Transition Cost Recovery Provisions
     (See current and proposed delivery rate schedules attached.)
Mitigation Factor
The mitigation factor is a credit averaging 0.5 cents/kWh offered by the utility to delivery service only customers.
 
Transition Period Provision
During the transition period utilities will be able to recognize, sell or assign assets; retire or remove plants from service; unbundle or restructure tariffs on a revenue neutral basis (with impact limitations described in Earnings and Viability below); accelerate depreciation or amortization or assets without ICC approval. The ICC could intercede if it believed the transaction jeopardized reliable service.
Earnings and Viability
The maximum allowable rate of return will be pegged to the 30-year T-Bond rate, plus 8.5%. If earnings exceed the allowed rate of return by more than 1.5%, 50% of the excess earnings would be shared with customers. If the rate of return is below the T-bond Rate, the utilities can apply to the ICC for a rate increase.
Securitization
Utilities are allowed to utilize securitization of transition period revenues as a means to mitigate stranded costs. The proceeds primarily are to be used to retire debt and equity, and to repay or retire fuel obligations if the Commission finds such use is the public interest.
Amount allowable for securitization is capped by 50% of capitalization. In December 1998, ComEd securitized $3.4 billion.
 
 
 
 
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
Notes:
 
     
[Additional columns below]
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
Notes:
 
 
 
August 2004
 


