FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20050628080204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On June 28, 2005, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) will conduct meetings with investors using materials previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 18, 2005. The materials used on June 28 will include updates to the timelines for regulatory review of the proposed merger with Public Service Enterprises Group Incorporated and for Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) consideration of Commonwealth Edison's procurement case and delivery case. During these meetings, Exelon will affirm its guidance for 2005 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings per share of $2.90-$3.10.
The updated timelines are as follows:
Merger Regulatory Highlights:
Commonwealth Edison (ComEd) Procurement Case in Illinois (projected dates):
ComEd Delivery Case in Illinois (projected dates):
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
 
from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ExelonNote 20, ComEdNote 15, PECONote 14 and GenerationNote 16, (c) Exelon's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.2 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation " and Exhibit 99.3 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data", (d) Generation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.5 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and Exhibit 99.6 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and (e) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
June 28, 2005


