FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20050425170227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 25, 2005, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) announced via press release Exelon's results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy of Exelon's press release and the earnings release attachments are attached hereto as Exhibit 99. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Items 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ExelonNote 20, ComEdNote 15, PECONote 14 and GenerationNote 16 and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
(April 25, 2005)  Exelon Corporation's (Exelon) first quarter 2005 consolidated earnings prepared in accordance with GAAP were $521 million, or $0.77 per diluted share, compared with $412 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2004.
Chicago
Exelon's adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the first quarter of 2005 were $452 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, compared with $406 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, for the same period in 2004. The 10 percent increase in adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings per share was primarily due to higher margins at Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) and lower interest expense at Exelon Energy Delivery Company, LLC (Energy Delivery).
A non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the first quarter of 2005 do not include the following items that are included in reported GAAP earnings (all after-tax):
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the first quarter of 2004 did not include the following items that were included in reported GAAP earnings (all after-tax):
 
"Our robust results in the first quarter demonstrate the benefits of owning a large, low-cost and well-run fleet of nuclear plants in today's environment of high fossil fuel prices," said John W. Rowe, Exelon's chairman, president and CEO. "We continue to contain costs across all our businesses while maintaining safety and improving operations. As we prepare for the pending merger with PSEG, we look forward to continued earnings growth driven by improving wholesale energy margins, core load growth in our two utility service areas and a constant focus on cost management."
2005 Earnings Outlook
Rowe added, "We are confirming our 2005 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings guidance range of $2.90 to $3.10 per share, which reflects our confidence in continued earnings growth this year."
Exelon's outlook for adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings excludes unrealized mark-to-market adjustments from Generation's non-trading activities, income resulting from investments in synthetic fuel-producing facilities, the financial impact of the company's investment in Sithe and certain merger-related costs. Giving consideration to these factors, Exelon estimates 2005 GAAP earnings will fall in the range of $2.95 to $3.15 per share. This estimate does not include any impact of future changes to GAAP. Second quarter adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings are expected to be between $0.60 and $0.75 per share. Earnings guidance is based on the assumption of normal weather.
First Quarter Highlights
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
consists of the retail electricity transmission and distribution operations of ComEd and PECO Energy Company (PECO) and the natural gas distribution business of PECO. Energy Delivery's net income in the first quarter of 2005 was $198 million compared with net income of $315 million in the first quarter of 2004. First quarter 2005 net income included an after-tax cost of
Exelon Energy Delivery
 
$2 million related to the proposed merger with PSEG. Excluding the impact of this item, Energy Delivery's net income decreased $115 million compared with the same quarter last year, primarily due to higher purchased power expense attributable to a contractual increase in prices associated with ComEd's power purchase agreement with Generation, partially offset by lower interest costs across Energy Delivery.
Heating degree-days for the first quarter of 2005 in the ComEd service territory were down 4 percent relative to the same period in 2004 and were 6 percent below normal. In the PECO service territory, heating degree-days were down 1 percent compared with 2004 but were 3 percent above normal. Retail kWh deliveries were relatively unchanged in 2005 as compared with 2004 for ComEd, with a 1 percent increase in deliveries to the residential customer class. PECO's retail kWh deliveries were also relatively unchanged, with residential deliveries up 1 percent. Energy Delivery's first quarter 2005 revenues were $2,681 million, up 4 percent from $2,575 million in 2004. Weather had an unfavorable impact of $0.01 on first quarter 2005 earnings per share relative to 2004 but had no significant effect relative to the normal weather that was incorporated in earnings guidance.
consists of Exelon's electric generation operations, competitive retail sales and power marketing and trading functions. First quarter 2005 net income was $320 million compared with $102 million in the first quarter of 2004. First quarter 2005 net income included an after-tax unrealized mark-to-market gain of $39 million from non-trading activities and an after-tax gain of $16 million associated with the sale of Generation's investment in Sithe. First quarter 2004 net income included the after-tax effects of a gain of $32 million for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 46-R, an unrealized mark-to-market loss of $22 million from non-trading activities and losses of $18 million associated with ongoing operations of Boston Generating. Excluding the impact of the items listed above, Generation's net income increased $155 million compared with the same quarter last year, primarily due to a contractual increase in prices associated with its power sales agreement with ComEd, higher margins on wholesale sales and higher sales to Energy Delivery, partially offset by higher interest and depreciation expense.
Exelon Generation
Energy sales, exclusive of trading volumes, totaled 45,463 GWhs for the first quarter of 2005 compared with 51,447 GWhs (including 3,108 GWhs related to Boston Generating) in 2004. The GWh variance was primarily driven by lower fossil and nuclear generation and the expiration of the remaining Midwest Generation power purchase contracts, partially offset by higher sales to PECO and ComEd largely due to increased deliveries to their residential customers and to ComEd's large commercial and industrial customers.
Generation's revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased by $272 million in the first quarter of 2005 compared with the first quarter of 2004 excluding the mark-to-market impact in both years and the impact of Boston Generating in the first quarter of 2004. The increase in revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense quarter over quarter was primarily due to the contractual increase in prices associated with Generation's power sales agreement with ComEd along with higher realized margins on wholesale sales. The increased margins on wholesale sales compared with last year were partially due to having previously re-priced forward hedges at higher market prices and partially due to a combination of an unusual widening of price differentials between PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) East and PJM West and a steep increase in hydroelectric production, neither of which is expected to recur in subsequent quarters. Generation's average realized margin on all electric sales, including sales to affiliates and excluding trading activity, was $23.89 per MWh in the first quarter of 2005 compared with $16.48 per MWh in the first quarter of 2004.
 
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings, which generally exclude significant one-time charges or credits that are not normally associated with ongoing operations and unrealized mark-to-market adjustments from non-trading activities at Generation, are provided as a supplement to results reported in accordance with GAAP. Management uses such adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings measures internally to evaluate the company's performance and manage its operations. A reconciliation of GAAP to adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for historical periods is attached. Additional Earnings Release Attachments, which include this reconciliation on page 6, are posted on Exelon's web site: www.exeloncorp.com and have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K on April 25, 2005.
Exelon has scheduled a conference call for 9 AM ET (8 AM CT) on April 26, 2005. The call-in number in the U.S. is 888-802-8581, and the international call-in number is 973-935-8515. No password is required. Media representatives are invited to participate on a listen-only basis. The call will be web-cast and archived on Exelon's web site: www.exeloncorp.com. (Please select the Investor Relations page.)
Conference call information:
Telephone replays will be available until May 15. The U.S. call-in number for replays is 877-519-4471, and the international call-in number is 973-341-3080. The confirmation code is 5913665.
 
 
 
Certain of the matters discussed in this news release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in Exelon Corporation's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and (b) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ExelonNote 20, ComEdNote 15, PECONote 14 and GenerationNote 16, and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by Exelon Corporation, Commonwealth Edison Company, PECO Energy Company and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Registrants). A discussion of risks associated with the proposed merger of Exelon and Public Service Enterprise Group, Incorporated (PSEG) is included in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-122704) that Exelon has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this news release. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release.
This communication is not a solicitation of a proxy from any security holder of Exelon or PSEG. The above-referenced Registration Statement on Form S-4 contains a preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents regarding the proposed merger of Exelon and PSEG. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT EXELON, PSEG AND THE PROPOSED MERGER. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, http://www.sec.gov. In
 
addition, a copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus (when it becomes available) may be obtained free of charge from Exelon Corporation, Shareholder Services, 10 South Dearborn Street, P.O. Box 805398, Chicago, Illinois 60680-5398, or from Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated, Investor Relations, 80 Park Plaza, P.O. Box 1171, Newark, New Jersey 07101-1171.
The respective directors and executive officers of Exelon and PSEG and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Exelon's and PSEG's directors and executive officers and other participants in the solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, is available in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the above-referenced Registration Statement on Form S-4.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n/a  not applicable
 


