FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20051104172905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 6 -9, 2005, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) will participate in the Edison Electric Institute Financial Conference in Hollywood, Florida. Attached as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the slides and handouts to be used at the conference. The handouts include relevant excerpts from the Illinois Public Utilities Act relating to ComEd's energy procurement proposals; excerpts from testimony of experts of the Illinois Attorney General, Citizen's Utility Board and Cook County States' Attorney in ComEd's energy procurement case pending before the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC); three position papers summarizing the basis for ComEd's positions with respect to the ICC's authority to approve an auction in the energy procurement case, ComEd's right to recover its costs, and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's authority with respect to affiliate power contracts; and case schedules for various ComEd-related proceedings and merger regulatory proceedings.
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
This presentation includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results of Exelon Corporation (Exelon), Commonwealth Edison Company, PECO Energy Company, and Exelon Generation Company LLC (collectively, the Exelon Companies) to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) the Exelon Companies' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and (b) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon-Note 20, ComEd-Note 15, PECO-Note 14 and Generation-Note 16 and (2) Exelon's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005 in (a) Exhibit 99.2, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Exelon  Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business and (b) Exhibit 99.3, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Exelon Corporation and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by the Exelon Companies. The factors that could cause actual results of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), Public Service Electric and Gas Company, PSEG Power LLC, and PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (collectively, the PSEG Companies) to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) the PSEG Companies' Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2005, in (a) Forward Looking Statements and (b) ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (2) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the PSEG Companies. A discussion of risks associated with the proposed merger of Exelon and PSEG is included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that Exelon filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) on June 3, 2005 (Registration No. 333-122704). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this presentation. None of the Exelon Companies or the PSEG Companies undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this presentation.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
November 4, 2005

 
Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FFO Calculation and Ratios
Net Income Add back non-cash items: + Depreciation, amortization (including nucl fuel amortization), AFUDC/Cap Int + Change in Deferred Taxes + Gain on Sale and Extraordinary Items + Trust-Preferred Interest Expense  Transition Bond Principal Paydown FFO
 
FFO Interest Coverage
Net Interest Expense (Before AFUDC & Cap Interest)  Trust-Preferred Interest Expense  Transition Bond Interest Expense + 10% of PV of Operating Leases Adjusted Interest
 
FFO Debt Coverage
Debt: LTD STD  Transition Bond Principal Balance Add debt equivalents: + A/R Financing + PV of Operating Leases Adjusted Debt
 
Debt to Total Cap
Debt: LTD STD  Transition Bond Principal Balance Adjusted Book Debt
 
Capitalization: Total Shareholders' Equity Preferred Securities of Subsidiaries Adjusted Book Debt Total Adjusted Capitalization
 
Note: FFO and Debt related to non-recourse debt are excluded from the calculations.
 
ComEd Case Schedules
Procurement Case (# 05-0159: www.icc.illinois.gov):
 -  Filed February 2005
 -  June  Staff and Intervenor testimony
 -  Early July  ComEd rebuttal
 -  Early August  Staff and Intervenor rebuttals
 -  Late August-early September  Hearings
 -  October  Initial and Reply briefs
 -  Mid-to-late November  ALJ proposed order
 -  Late January 2006  ICC order
Delivery Service Case (# 05-0597)
 -  Filed August 31, 2005
 -  December 23  Staff and Intervenor direct testimony
 -  January 30, 2006  ComEd Rebuttal
 -  February 27  Staff and Intervenor rebuttal
 -  March 14  ComEd surrebuttal
 -  March 17  Pre-trial motions
 -  March 21-29  Hearings
 -  April 25  Initial briefs
 -  May 11  Reply briefs
 -  June 8  ALJ proposed order
 -  Late July  ICC order
IL Attorney General's Circuit Court of Cook County Case (# 05-CH14914)
 -  September 1, 2005  AG, CUB, Cook County State's Attorney's Office and Environmental Law and Public Policy Center filed two-count complaint against ICC
 -  October 12  ICC, ComEd and Ameren filed opening briefs
 -  November 9  Response by other parties
 -  December 14  Hearing
 -  Late December  Judge's ruling expected
FERC Application of ComEd and Exelon Generation under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act (Docket # ER06-43-000: www.ferc.gov)
 -  Filed October 17
 -  Expedited decision requested by December 15, 2005
 
EXC-PSEG Merger Case Schedules
NJ (Docket # EM05020106: www.bpu.state.nj.us)
 -  Filed February 4, 2005
 -  August 29  Discovery on the Petitioners testimony
 -  November 14  Ratepayer Advocate, BPU Staff & Intervenors testimony
 -  November 28  Petitioners rebuttal testimony to Ratepayer Advocate, BPU Staff & Intervenors
 -  December 12-15  Settlement discussion begins
 -  December 27  Ratepayer Advocate, BPU Staff & Intervenor surrebuttal testimony
 -  January 2006 (12 days)  Evidentiary hearings
 -  January 23  Settlement discussion continues
 -  February 3  Filing of initial briefs
 -  February 17  Filing of reply briefs
 -  March 30*  Initial ALJ decision
 -  May 15*  Final BPU decision and order
 Proposed dates based on the NJ Administrative Procedure Act
*
PA (Docket # A-110550F0160: www.puc.state.pa.us)
 -  Filed February 4, 2005
 -  May 1  Initial discovery request period ends
 -  June 28  Non-applicant parties, direct testimony
 -  June 29  All parties, rebuttal testimony
 -  June 20  Hearing to receive public comment
 -  August 26  All parties, surrebuttal testimony
 -  September  Hearings
 -  September 13  Partial settlement filed with the PUC
 -  October  Main briefs
 -  November  Reply briefs
 -  By mid-December  ALJ initial decision expected
 -  December 2005-early 2006  Final PUC decision expected
 
Section 5/16-103
     (220 ILCS 5/16-103)
     Sec. 16-103. Service obligations of electric utilities.
     (a) An electric utility shall continue offering to retail customers each tariffed service that it offered as a distinct and identifiable service on the effective date of this amendatory Act of 1997 until the service is (i) declared competitive pursuant to , or (ii) abandoned pursuant to Section 8-508. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as limiting an electric utility's right to propose, or the Commission's power to approve, allow or order modifications in the rates, terms and conditions for such ser- vices pursuant to Article IX or Section 16-111 of this Act.
Section 16-113
     (b) An electric utility shall also offer, as tariffed services, delivery services in accordance with this Article, the power purchase options described in Section 16-110 and real-time pricing as provided in Section 16-107.
     (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, each electric utility shall continue offering to all residential customers and to all small commercial retail customers in its service area, as a tariffed service, bundled electric power and energy delivered to the customer's premises consistent with the bundled utility service provided by the electric utility on the effective date of this amendatory Act of 1997. Upon declaration of the provision of electric power and energy as competitive, the electric utility shall continue to offer to such customers, as a tariffed service, bundled service options at rates which reflect recovery of all cost components for providing the service. For those components of the service which have been declared competitive, cost shall be the market based prices. Market based prices as referred to herein shall mean, for electric power and energy, either (i) those prices for electric power and energy determined as provided in Section 16-112, or (ii) the electric utility's cost of obtaining the electric power and energy at wholesale through a competitive bidding or other arms length acquisition process.
     (d) Any residential or small commercial retail customer which elects delivery services is entitled to return to the electric utility's bundled utility tariffed service offering provided in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section upon payment of a reasonable administrative fee which shall be set forth in the tariff, provided, however, that the electric utility shall be entitled to impose the condition that such customer may not elect delivery services for up to 24 months thereafter.
     (e) The Commission shall not require an electric utility to offer any tariffed service other than the services required by this Section, and shall not require an electric utility to offer any competitive service.
(Source: P.A. 90-561, effective December 16, 1997)
 
Section 5/16-111
electric power or energy provided by the electric utility determined as set forth in the electric utility's tariff for that customer's class. The electric utility may require that the delivery services customer give up to 30 days notice for such a purchase.
     (e) Each delivery services customer purchasing electric power and energy from the electric utility pursuant to a tariff filed in accordance with this Section shall also pay all of the applicable charges set forth in the electric utility's delivery services tariffs and any other tariffs applicable to the services provided to that customer by the electric utility.
     (f) An electric utility can require a retail customer taking delivery services that formerly generated electric power and energy for its own use and that would not otherwise pay transition charges on a portion of its electric power and energy requirements served on delivery services to pay transition charges on that portion of the customer's electric power and energy requirements as a condition of exercising the delivery services customer power purchase options set forth in this Section.
(Source: P.A. 91-50, effective June 30, 1999)
     (220 ILCS 5/16-111)
     Sec. 16-111. Rates and restructuring transactions during mandatory transition period.
     (a) During the mandatory transition period, notwithstanding any provision of Article IX of this Act, and except as provided in subsections (b), (d), (e), and (f) of this Section, the Commission shall not (i) initiate, authorize or order any change by way of increase (other than in connection with a request for rate increase which was filed after September 1, 1997 but prior to October 15, 1997, by an electric utility serving less than 12,500 customers in this state), (ii) initiate or, unless requested by the electric utility, authorize or order any change by way of decrease, restructuring or unbundling (except as provided in ), in the rates of any electric utility that were in effect on October 1, 1996, or (iii) in any order approving any application for a merger pursuant to Section 7-204 that was pending as of May 16, 1997, impose any condition requiring any filing for an increase, decrease, or change in, or other review of, an electric utility's rates or enforce any such condition of any such order; provided, however, that this subsection shall not prohibit the Commission from:
Section 16-109A
     (1) approving the application of an electric utility to implement an alternative to rate of return regulation or a regulatory mechanism that rewards or penalizes the electric utility through adjustment of rates based on utility performance, pursuant to Section 9-244;
     (2) authorizing an electric utility to eliminate its fuel adjustment clause and adjust its base rate tariffs in accordance with subsection (b), (d), or (f) of Section 9-220 of this Act, to fix its fuel adjustment factor in accordance with sub
 
Section 5/16-111
services pursuant to Section 9-201, 9-202, 9-250 or 16-111 (d) of this Act, the Commission may establish new rates of depreciation for the electric utility in the same manner provided in subsection (d) of Section 5-104 of this Act. An electric utility implementing an accelerated cost recovery method including accelerated depreciation, accelerated amortization or other capital recovery methods, or recording reductions to the original cost of its assets, pursuant to subsection (g) of this Section, shall file a statement with the Commission describing the accelerated cost recovery method to be implemented or the reduction in the original cost of its assets to be recorded. Upon the filing of such statement, the accelerated cost recovery method or the reduction in the original cost of assets shall be deemed to be approved by the Commission as though an order had been entered by the Commission.
     (i) Subsequent to the mandatory transition period, the Commission, in any proceeding to establish rates and charges for tariffed services offered by an electric utility, shall consider only (1) the then current or projected revenues, costs, investments and cost of capital directly or indirectly associated with the provision of such tariffed services; (2) collection of transition charges in accordance with Sections 16-102 and 16-108 of this Act; (3) recovery of any employee transition costs as described in Section 16-128 which the electric utility is continuing to incur, including recovery of any unamortized portion of such costs previously incurred or committed, with such costs to be equitably allocated among bundled services, delivery services, and contracts with alternative retail electric suppliers; and (4) recovery of the costs associated with the electric utility's compliance with decommissioning funding requirements; and shall not consider any other revenues, costs, investments or cost of capital of either the electric utility or of any affiliate of the electric utility that are not associated with the provision of tariffed services. In setting rates for tariffed services, the Commission shall equitably allocate joint and common costs and investments between the electric utility's competitive and tariffed services. In determining the justness and reasonableness of the electric power and energy component of an electric utility's rates for tariffed services subsequent to the mandatory transition period and prior to the time that the provision of such electric power and energy is declared competitive, the Commission shall consider the extent to which the electric utility's tariffed rates for such component for each customer class exceed the market value determined pursuant to Section 16-112, and, if the electric power and energy component of such tariffed rate exceeds the market value by more than 10% for any customer class, may establish such electric power and energy component at a rate equal to the market value plus 10%. In any such case, the Commission may also elect to extend the provisions of Section 16-111 (e) for any period in which the electric utility is collecting transition charges, using information applicable to such period.
     (j) During the mandatory transition period, an electric utility may elect to transfer to a non-operating income account under the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts either or both of (i) an amount of unamortized investment tax credit that is in addition to the ratable amount which is credited to the electric utility's operating income account for the year in accordance with Section 46(f)(2) of the federal Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as in effect prior to P.L. 101-508, or (ii) "excess tax reserves", as that
 
Section 5/16-112
     (b) That, in light of the findings in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and, in this instance, the circumstances described in paragraphs (3) through (6) of subsection (a) and otherwise, the General Assembly hereby finds that allowing the generating facilities being acquired to be eligible facilities under the provisions of the National Energy Policy Act of 1992 that apply to exempt wholesale generators (A) will benefit consumers; (B) is in the public interest; and (C) does not violate the law of this State.
     (c) Nothing in this Section shall have any effect on the authority of the Commission under subsection (g) of  of this Act.
Section 16-111
(Source: P.A. 91-50, effective June 30, 1999)
     (220 ILCS 5/16-111.3 new)
     Sec. 16-111.3. Transition period earnings calculations. At such time as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ceases to include the monthly average yields of 30-year U.S. Treasury bonds in its weekly H.15 Statistical Release or successor publication, the Monthly Treasury Long-Term Average Rates (25 years and above) published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in its weekly H.15 Statistical Release or successor publication shall instead be used to establish a rate for the purpose of calculating the Index defined in subsection (e) of Section 16-111 of this Act, and at such time, such Monthly Treasury Long-Term Average Rates (25 years and above) shall also be used in place of the monthly average yields of 30-year U.S. Treasury bonds in the rate of return calculation required by subsection (d) of Section 16-111. An electric utility shall also remove the effects, if any, of any impairment due to the application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, which was issued in June 2001, when making the calculations required by this State or by subsections (d) and (E) of .
Section  16-111
Source: P.A. 52-0537, effective June 6, 2002.
     (220 ILCS 5/16-112)
     Sec. 16-112. Determination of market value.
     (a) The market value to be used in the calculation of transition charges as defined in Section 16-102 shall be determined in accordance with either (i) a tariff that has been filed by the electric utility with the Commission pursuant to Article IX of this Act and that provides for a determination of the market value for electric power and energy as a function of an exchange traded or other market traded index, options or futures contract or contracts applicable to the market in which the utility sells, and the customers in its service area buy, electric power and energy, or (ii) in the event no such tariff has been placed into effect for the electric utility, or in the event such tariff does not establish market values for each of the years specified in the neutral fact-finder
 
The suit filed in circuit court challenging the Illinois Commerce Commission's authority to approve an auction for the procurement of wholesale energy is without legal merit.
The market price ComEd pays for energy is ComEd's cost of supplying its customers.
The Public Utilities Act (PUA) does not prohibit a market-based process for determining the cost of service in rates.
 
 
 
There Is No Evidence of Market Power
CUB/CCSAO Witness Fagan ( 334:15-335:1)
TX
CUB/CCSAO Witness Fagan
(TX 336:6-10)
CUB/CCSAO Witness Fagan (TX 351:22 - 352:9)
 
 
ComEd Must Buy Power at Wholesale Market; Competitive Procurement is Appropriate; ComEd is Entitled to Recover its Prudently Incurred Costs
CUB/CCSAO Witness Steinhurst (TX 482:8-21)
CUB/CCSAO Witness Steinhurst (TX 483:13-485:8)
 
 
CUB/CCSAO Witness Steinhurst (TX 486:1-13)
CUB/CCSAO Witness Steinhurst (TX 486:21-487:6)
 
CUB/CCSAO Witness Steinhurst (TX 489:13-490:21)
 
CUB/CCSAO Witness Steinhurst (TX 491:10-492:5)
 
AG Witness Salgo (TX 723:20-724:13)
AG Witness Salgo (TX 727:6-729:2)
 
[OBJECTION, RESPONSE, AND JUDGE'S RULING OMITTED]
AG Witness Salgo (TX 729:22  731:1)
[OBJECTION, RESPONSE, AND JUDGE'S RULING OMITTED]
 
AG Witness Salgo (TX 731:3-6)
 
     For ten years, Illinois electricity rates have been frozen  including at a 20%-reduced rate for residential consumers (35% in real terms)  as part of the transition to a restructured, competitive electric services industry. During that ten-year period, as authorized by the restructuring legislation, ComEd fully divested its electric generating facilities. Thus, after January 1, 2007, the utility, which remains obligated to provide bundled electricity service to Illinois consumers, 220 ILCS 5/16-103(a), must purchase power needed to meet that obligation on the wholesale energy market. In order to obtain the lowest possible competitively derived wholesale prices, ComEd will purchase that power through an open and competitive procurement auction in which the lowest bidding wholesale suppliers will be selected. Several statutory and constitutional principles compel the unremarkable conclusion that ComEd must be allowed to recover the actual, out-of-pocket costs it reasonably and prudently incurs in the purchase of wholesale electricity to meet its continuing statutory obligation to provide bundled electricity service to Illinois consumers.
see
     Pursuant to long-settled statutory authority in Illinois, an electric utility is entitled to recover the prudently incurred costs of the very energy its retail customers use. The General Assembly expressed its intent in the Public Utilities Act (PUA) that utility service prices "accurately reflect the long-term cost of such services" and that "tariff rates for the sale of various public utility services ... accurately reflect the cost of delivering those services and allow utilities to recover the total costs prudently and reasonably incurred." 220 ILCS 5/1-102. Consistent with this expression of legislative intent, Article IX of the PUA requires that utility
 
rates be "just and reasonable." 220 ILCS 5/9-101. This requirement, which "has remained unchanged since the [PUA] of 1913," means that rates "should be sufficient to provide for operating expenses, depreciation, reserves ... and a reasonable return to the investor." 414 Ill. 275, 286-88 (1953). Rates "must allow the utility to recover costs prudently and reasonably incurred." 166 Ill. 2d 111, 121 (1995). Simply put, "[t]he state has no power to compel a corporation engaged in operating a public utility to serve the public without a reasonable compensation." 310 Ill. 618, 621 (1923).
Illinois Bell Tel. Co. v. ICC,
Citizens Util. Bd. v. ICC,
City of Edwardsville v. Ill. Bell Tel. Co.,
     As permitted by the restructuring legislation, ComEd has divested its electric generating facilities. As a result, the make-up of the company's costs has changed. The cost of the energy supplied to customers no longer reflects ComEd's historical and current operating costs of maintaining its own generating facilities but, instead, reflects the cost of procuring this energy - - needed to serve customers  in the competitive wholesale electricity market. Although the method now of obtaining power is thus different, the same statutory principles apply: a public utility like ComEd is entitled to recover the actual, out-of-pocket costs it reasonably and prudently incurs to supply electricity to its customers. ComEd cannot be forced to purchase electricity at one price, and then to sell the electricity to its customers at a lower price, thereby forcing ComEd to operate at a loss.
     Nor can there be any question that the wholesale power costs resulting from the auction process proposed by ComEd will be prudently incurred. The auction is structured to use competitive forces to reduce wholesale prices to the maximum extent, thereby protecting retail consumers. ComEd's retail service obligation will be divided into "tranches" (percentages of total customer demand), and prospective suppliers will compete in the auction-created market by
 
bidding to provide the power needed to serve one or more tranches. An independent auction manager will set the initial price at a level where more than enough supply will be bid; the manager then will lower that price in successive rounds of bidding until the high-cost suppliers are squeezed out. The process is highly transparent: all bidders know how much electricity others are willing to sell at a given price and can adjust their bids to ensure they remain in the auction. In addition, the bidders compete on a uniform product, permitting bid evaluation solely on price. By explicit design, the auction yields the lowest wholesale price available at that time  the market value of the energy needed to serve consumers. These purchases then are staggered over time, to mitigate the effects of the potential fluctuation in market prices. Given the State's appropriate transition to a competitive electric services industry, there is no more reasonable and prudent way to procure wholesale power than through such an open and competitive auction.
1
     There is no need or basis for a post hoc prudence review to evaluate ComEd's purchase of power through a competitive auction over which it exercises no control. Prudence is determined with reference to "only those facts available at the time judgment was exercised." 339 Ill. App. 3d 425, 428 (Ill. 5th Dist. 2003); 245 Ill. App. 3d 367, 371-76 (Ill. 3d Dist. 1993) (reversing order disallowing utility's costs because expenditures were not imprudent when made, given circumstances and facts at that time). The auction process itself will be both approved and monitored by the Illinois Commerce Commission. Where regulators investigate and prescribe in advance a highly- regulated procurement method over which the utility exercises no control, and the utility then
Illinois Power Co. v. ICC,
see also, e.g., Illinois Power Co. v. ICC,
 
 
follows that prescribed method, there simply is no occasion for a post hoc prudence review. By design the prescribed procurement method establishes that the resulting costs were "prudently and reasonably incurred," and for almost 100 years Illinois law explicitly has allowed a utility to recover such costs. 166 Ill. 2d at 121.
Citizens Util. Bd.,
     As explained above, ComEd now purchase wholesale power to serve its customers. These energy supply costs represent the vast majority of the overall costs that ComEd will incur to meet its ongoing legal obligation to provide bundled electricity service. Retail rates that fail to allow ComEd to recover the full amount of these wholesale purchases would have a dramatic negative effect on ComEd's finances. Such rates not only would be unlawful under Illinois statutory law, they would be unconstitutional.
must
     Both the state and federal constitutions mandate that public utility rates allow the utility an opportunity to recover its prudently incurred costs and a reasonable return on capital, or the rates would be confiscatory. Confiscatory rates violate both the Takings and Due Process clauses of the federal and Illinois Constitutions. 488 U.S. 299, 308 (1989); at 310 (affirming that constitutionally valid rates "enable [a] company to operate successfully, to maintain its financial integrity, to attract capital, and to compensate its investors for the risk assumed'") (quoting 320 U.S. 591, 605 (1944)); 262 U.S. 679, 692-93 (1923) (holding that a utility's return "should be reasonably sufficient to assure confidence in the financial soundness of the utility and . . . adequate, under efficient and economical management, to maintain and support its credit and . . . to raise the money necessary for the proper discharge of its public duties," and striking down state rate order
See Duquesne Light Co. v. Barasch,
see also id.
FPC v. Hope Natural Gas. Co.,
Bluefield Water Works & Improvement Co. v. Public Service Comm'n of West Virginia,
 
as confiscatory); 257 F.3d 587, 594 (6th Cir. 2001) (holding a telephone rate freeze unlawful, as confiscatory, on federal due process grounds); Co., 310 Ill. 618, 621 (1924) (holding that confiscatory utility rates violate due process). As the Illinois Supreme Court has explained in no uncertain terms: "The power of the Legislature over rates to be charged is not absolute, but is limited. It is the power to regulate and not to confiscate." 310 Ill. at 621.
Michigan Bell Tel. Co. v. Engler,
City of Edwardsville v. III. Bell Tel.
City of Edwardsville,
2
     The constitutional failing is even more apparent where "the economic conditions which actually existed . . . at the time when the [confiscatory rate] . . . issued and which were known . . . stamped the [rate] as invalid from its inception." 223 F.2d 814, 818 (1st Cir. 1955). Again, ComEd now must make large market-based purchases of wholesale electric power. Any measure precluding ComEd from recovering the full amount of its actual, out-of-pocket costs for such purchases would cause ComEd to suffer significant losses and would threaten its overall financial condition. The state lacks power to impose such an outcome on a public utility. 488 U.S. at 310. Precluding cost recovery in the circumstances at issue here would be "invalid from its inception." 223 F.2d at 818.
Mora v. Mejias,
See Duquesne,
Mora,
3
 
 
     The financial condition of ComEd's affiliate, ExGen, or other subsidiaries of ComEd's parent, Exelon Corporation, has no bearing on whether ComEd would suffer an unconstitutional taking. Even if a utility itself has "other unregulated income streams, [it is] not required to subsidize [its] regulated services with income from . . . revenues generated from unregulated services." 257 F.3d at 594 (invalidating telephone rate freeze as confiscatory and holding that utility's unregulated telephone services income could not be taken into account in determining whether regulated services rates were unlawful); 251 U.S. 396, 399 (1920) (holding that where regulated railway company was operating at a loss, it was immaterial that company "may be making money from its sawmill and lumber business," as "it no more can be compelled to spend that [money] than it can be compelled to spend any other money to maintain a railroad for the benefit of others who do not care to pay for it"). ComEd and ExGen are two separate entities, one engaged in the regulated provision of retail electric services and the other in the unregulated (vis-a-vis Illinois) sale of wholesale power. Whether or not ExGen enjoys financial success as a whole, or even is able to garner profits through participation in the competitive wholesale procurement auctions at issue here, provides no legal basis for subjecting ComEd to confiscatory retail rates.
Michigan Bell Tel.,
see also Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Comm'n of La.,
4
     The agreements entered into pursuant to the competitive auction process will be for the sale of energy to ComEd by wholesale suppliers. Thus, the contract prices resulting from the auction are subject to exclusive federal regulation.
 
 
     The Supremacy Clause of the United States Constitution precludes state regulation of wholesale energy sales, because they occur in interstate commerce. Under the Federal Power Act, these transactions are subject to FERC's exclusive regulatory authority  including the authority to determine the reasonableness of wholesale energy prices. 535 U.S. 1, 18-19 (2002) ("the FPA gives FERC jurisdiction over the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and . . . the sale of such energy at wholesale") (internal quotation marks and citation omitted); 487 U.S. 354, 371 (1988) ("FERC has exclusive authority to determine the reasonableness of wholesale rates."); 376 U.S. 205, 210 (1964) (holding that Federal Power Administration's authority encompassed "all sales of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce not expressly exempted by the [Federal Power] Act itself"). It is firmly established that FERC's authority preempts state regulation of wholesale energy prices. 476 U.S. 953, 966 (1986); 143 Ill. 2d 407, 416-17 (1991) (recognizing preemptive effect of FERC determination of reasonableness of wholesale rate).
See New York v. FERC,
Mississippi Power & Light Co. v. Miss, ex rel. Moore,
see also FPC v. So. Cal. Edison Co.,
See Nantahala Power & Light Co. v. Thornburg,
General Motors Corp. v. ICC,
     Thus, a wholesale rate accepted for filing by FERC binds not only the entities involved but also state authorities. 487 U.S. at 374 ("States may not regulate in areas where FERC has . . . determine [d] just and reasonable wholesale rates or to insure that agreements affecting wholesale rates are reasonable."); 16 U.S.C.  824d(c) (describing FERC rate filing procedure). That is, where FERC has determined that wholesale prices are just and reasonable, a state may not conclude otherwise, including by preventing the utility from passing those costs to retail customers. 476 U.S. at 966, 972-73. Such a state determination would subject the utility to unlawful "trapped costs"  that is, costs the utility
See Mississippi Power,
see also
Nantahala,
 
reasonably incurred in FERC-regulated wholesale markets, but then could not recover in state-regulated retail markets. 487 U.S. at 372 & n.12 (state authorities may not issue an order "trapping' the costs" of wholesale power purchases by a local utility, including by conducting a "prudence review" in order to determine whether those costs will be passed on to utility customers or trapped).
See Mississippi Power,
     Moreover, the exception" to this strict preemption rule has no application where the utility purchasing the wholesale power has no ability  legally or practically  to obtain the same quantity of power at lower prices from another source. 476 U.S. at 972; 487 U.S. at 373-74. By definition, ComEd has no such ability here, because the competitive auction process described above is expressly designed to identify the lowest available price for wholesale power.
"Pike County
See Nantahala,
Mississippi Power,
     Finally, FERC's decision to permit wholesale suppliers to sell at market-based rates does not change the preemptive effect of those rates. Preemption applies not only to cost-based wholesale transactions, but also to market-based ones. 216 F. Supp. 2d 1016, 1038 (N.D. Cal. 2002) ("[C]osts of wholesale energy, incurred pursuant to rate tariffs filed with FERC, whether these rates are market-based or cost-based, must be recognized as recoverable costs by state regulators and may not be trapped by excessively low retail rates or other limitations imposed at the state level.").
See Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. Lynch,
5
 
 
     ExGen is a leading generator of low-cost wholesale electric energy. ExGen's ability to produce low-cost power will work to constrain wholesale prices in Illinois and redound to the benefit of Illinois consumers. At the same time, Illinois may not attempt to appropriate through ratemaking the benefits of these wholesale energy resources found or generated within the state.
     The Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution gives the federal government power to regulate interstate commerce and, by negative implication, limits the power of states to interfere with such commerce. U.S. Const, art. I,  8, cl. 3; U.S. 553, 596 (1923) ("By the Constitution . . . the power to regulate interstate commerce is expressly committed to Congress and therefore impliedly forbidden to the states[.]") (internal quotation marks and citation omitted), 263 U.S. 350 (1923). Indeed, the Supreme Court has explained: "At this late day it is not necessary to cite cases to show that the right to engage in interstate commerce is not a gift of a state, and that it cannot be regulated or restrained by a state." 221 U.S. 229, 260 (1911).
See
Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262
aff'd on reh'g,
West v. Kan. Natural Gas Co.,
     Thus, for example, the Supreme Court has struck down a state law that restricted interstate sales of electric power generated in-state. 455 U.S. 331, 338 (1982). The Court firmly rejected the view that state regulators could seek to capture the benefits of the lower cost wholesale power generated within the state. at 336. A similar law was struck down in 221 U.S. at 260.
New England Power Co. v. New Hampshire,
Id.
West v. Kansas Natural Gas Company. See
     An attempt by the state to take advantage, through ratemaking, of ExGen's ability to produce low-cost wholesale power would constitute the economic and legal equivalent of the state regulation found invalid in and At bottom, such a measure would necessarily and impermissibly burden interstate commerce. ExGen cannot be required to
New England Power
West.
 
sell its power at prices that are within the amount ComEd is permitted by Illinois to recover. That would constitute an attempt by Illinois to appropriate the benefits of ExGen's ability to produce low-cost power in the interstate wholesale market. The Commerce Clause does not permit such a regime.
     The State of Illinois legitimately may seek to obtain the lowest possible electricity costs for its residents. In the restructuring legislation, the State chose to achieve that result through a transformation to a competitive electric services industry. There now is substantial competition in the wholesale electricity market, which will only become more robust. ComEd no longer will base its rates on the historical and current operating costs of maintaining its own generating facilities, but rather on the costs of wholesale power transactions in that competitive market, where the lowest-price bidder will be determined through an open and fair competitive auction. As a matter of both statutory and constitutional law, ComEd is entitled to recover the actual amounts it is required to pay to acquire the electricity delivered to its customers. Nor can the State of Illinois seek to regulate the prices of those interstate wholesale power purchase transactions, even between ComEd and its affiliate. Through the operation of open and fair competitive markets, however, Illinois residents will be afforded the lowest possible electricity costs that are available in today's energy markets  markets that obviously are not necessarily the same as existed ten years ago.
 
FERC has exclusive jurisdiction over wholesale power sales
FERC closely scrutinizes power sales between a utility and its affiliates
FERC's scrutiny increasingly focuses on protecting wholesale competition
FERC's current guidelines


