FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20050831131037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On August 31, 2005, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) distributed a summary of the Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) delivery service rate case filing to Exelon's financial community. A copy of the ComEd delivery service rate case summary is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon and ComEd. Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon and ComEd, (b) the 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ExelonNote 20 and ComEdNote 15 (c) Exelon's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.2 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation " and Exhibit 99.3 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and (d) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by Exelon and ComEd. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. Neither Exelon nor ComEd undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
August 31, 2005

 
Exhibit 99
Summary of ComEd Delivery Services Rate Case Proposal filed with the Illinois Commerce Commission on 8/31/05:


