FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20051202172843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events. Item 8.01. Other Events.
As previously announced, on December 20, 2004, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), pursuant to which PSEG will merge with and into Exelon with Exelon continuing as the surviving corporation (the Merger). There are a number of regulatory approvals or other regulatory actions required to consummate the Merger, including those described in previous Reports on Form 8-K.
On September 13, 2005, Exelon issued a press release announcing that PECO Energy Company (PECO) had reached a settlement related to Pennsylvania review of the Exelon-PSEG merger (the Settlement). A copy of the press release was filed as Exhibit 99 to the Report on Form 8-K filed on September 14, 2005. The press release included a summary of the terms of the Settlement.
On November 30, 2005, the Initial Decision of the administrative law judge in the proceeding before the Pennsylvania Public Utilities Commission (PAPUC) with respect to the Settlement was released. The administrative law judge recommended that the PAPUC accept the Settlement without modification, stating that "The record clearly demonstrates that the proposed merger, as reflected in the settlement terms and conditions, is in the public interest, provides substantial, affirmative benefits, and is not likely to result in anticompetitive or discriminatory conduct or the unlawful exercise of market power in the retail electric and natural gas markets." The administrative law judge also found that the concerns raised by the parties who did not join the settlement did not represent a sufficient basis for disapproval or conditional approval of the Merger. The Settlement is subject to the final approval of the PAPUC. It is anticipated that the PAPUC will take comments before making a final decision, and thus it is further anticipated that the full PAPUC will vote on the case in January 2006.
Although Exelon and PSEG believe that the expectations as to timing for the Pennsylvania proceeding described above are reasonable, no assurances can be given as to the timing of the receipt of any required regulatory approvals or that all required approvals will be received.
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include risks associated with the proposed merger of Exelon and PSEG that are included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that Exelon filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) on June 3, 2005 (Registration No. 333-122704). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this report. The Registrants do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to the forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
December 2, 2005


