FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20050805082446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On August 5, 2005, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) will hold an investor conference in New York City. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the slides and handouts to be used at the conference.
In connection with the conference, on August 5, 2005, Exelon issued a press release announcing that it raised its 2005 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings guidance and announcing its 2006 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings guidance. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ExelonNote 20, ComEdNote 15, PECONote 14 and GenerationNote 16, (c) Exelon's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.2 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation " and Exhibit 99.3 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data", (d) Generation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.5 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and Exhibit 99.6 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and (e) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix:
EPS figures reflect 2-for-1 stock split effective 5/5/04. Three-year 2004/2001 compound annual growth rate (CAGR): $2.78/$2.21 = 7.9% based on GAAP reported results. Three-year 2004/2001 CAGR: $2.78/$2.24 = 7.5% based on adjusted (non-GAAP) operating results.
Note:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Background
The NuStart consortium was formed for the purpose of serving as a unified industry entity to respond to a Department of Energy (DOE) solicitation to receive 50/50 cost-share funding for projects designed to address the challenges facing a new nuclear investment. The overall goal of the consortium is to preserve the nuclear option for future investment decisions by reducing the time to market for a new plant. No decision to build a new nuclear plant has been made by NuStart or any of its members at this time.
Participants in NuStart Consortium:
Project Objectives:
Project Milestones:
Project Funding:
 
Rate Reductions
     
Direct Access Phase-In Schedule
          All C&I customers had supplier choice effective 12/31/00.
Transition Cost Recovery Provisions
(See current and proposed delivery rate schedules attached.)
Mitigation Factor
The mitigation factor is a credit averaging 0.5 cents/kWh offered by the utility to delivery service only customers.
1
 
Transition Period Provision
During the transition period utilities will be able to reorganize, sell or assign assets; retire or remove plants from service; unbundle or restructure tariffs on a revenue neutral basis (with impact limitations described in Earnings and Viability below); and accelerate depreciation or amortization of assets without ICC approval. The ICC could intercede if it believed the transaction jeopardized reliable service.
Earnings and Viability
The maximum allowable rate of return will be pegged to the 30-year T-Bond rate, plus 8.5%. If earnings exceed the allowed rate of return by more than 1.5%, 50% of the excess earnings would be shared with customers. If the rate of return is below the T-bond Rate, the utilities can apply to the ICC for a rate increase.
Securitization
Utilities are allowed to utilize securitization of transition period revenues as a means to mitigate stranded costs. The proceeds primarily are to be used to retire debt and equity, and to repay or retire fuel obligations if the Commission finds such use is the public interest.
Amount allowable for securitization is capped by 50% of capitalization. In December 1998, ComEd securitized $3.4 billion.
2
 
 
May 25, 2005 Supersedes Charges Filed February 1, 2005 Attachment B1 R: p 1 of 6
Notes:
 
May 25, 2005 Supersedes Charges Filed February 1, 2005 Attachment B1: p 1 of 9
Notes:
 
PECO ENERGY
This summary of the major elements of the 1998 settlement reflects amendments made in 2000 following announcement of the PECO Unicom merger.
1
 
PECO ENERGY
Schedule of Rates
Note: Original settlement rates.
 
Notes:
2
 
PECO ENERGY
CTC Amortization
 
Other Features
3
 
 
 
 
August 2005
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
NEWS RELEASE
(Aug. 5, 2005) Exelon today raised its guidance for 2005 GAAP earnings per share to a range of $3.05 to $3.20 and its guidance for 2005 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings per share to a range of $3.00 to $3.15. The company also provided guidance for 2006 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings per share of between $3.00 and $3.30 (on a stand-alone basis) during a conference with analysts and investors today. The company's earnings guidance is based on the assumption of normal weather in the second half of 2005 and the full year of 2006. These estimates do not include any impact of future changes to GAAP.
CHICAGO
Positive drivers of earnings growth in 2005 and 2006 include higher generation margins and load growth at ComEd and PECO.
"Since its inception, Exelon has provided one of the best total returns in our industry. The last twelve months have been no exception," said John W. Rowe, Exelon's chairman, president and CEO.
"Our success is attributable to many things, including dramatic improvements in our nuclear and other operations, and rigorous financial discipline," said Rowe. "But in a very real sense, our success is competition's success. Over the past five years, we have worked tirelessly to promote wholesale competition and to implement the mandate of our state policymakers. The evidence is increasingly clear that our shareholders, our customers and our employees are all benefiting as a consequence. And we believe that our impending merger with PSEG will continue that process."
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings, which generally exclude significant one-time charges or credits that are not normally associated with ongoing operations and unrealized mark-to-market adjustments from non-trading activities, are provided as a supplement to results reported in accordance with GAAP. Management uses such adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings measures internally to evaluate the company's performance and manage its operations. Exelon's outlook for 2005 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings excludes unrealized mark-to-market adjustments from non-trading activities, income resulting from investments in synthetic fuel-producing facilities,
 
the financial impact of the company's investment in Sithe and certain severance costs. The outlook for 2006 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings excludes unrealized mark-to-market adjustments from non-trading activities and income resulting from investments in synthetic fuel-producing facilities. Earnings guidance is based on the assumption of normal weather.
A webcast of Exelon's Aug. 5 investor conference will be archived and available on the Investor Relations section of Exelon's Web site at www.exeloncorp.com.
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon Corporation's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and (b) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon-Note 20, ComEd-Note 15, PECO-Note 14 and Generation-Note 16 and (2) Exelon's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005 in (a) Exhibit 99.2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Exelon  Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business and (b) Exhibit 99.3 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Exelon Corporation and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by Exelon Corporation, Commonwealth Edison Company, PECO Energy Company and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Companies). A discussion of risks associated with the proposed merger of Exelon and Public Service Enterprise Group, Incorporated (PSEG) is included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that Exelon filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 
424(b)(3)
on June 3, 2005 (Registration No. 333-122704). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this news release. None of the Companies undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release.
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately 5.2 million customers and more than $14 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.2 million customers in northern Illinois and Pennsylvania and gas to more than 460,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.


