FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20051026083219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 26, 2005, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) announced via press release Exelon's results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release and related attachments are attached hereto as Exhibit 99. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibit are provided under Items 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ExelonNote 20, ComEdNote 15, PECONote 14 and GenerationNote 16, (c) Exelon's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.2, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation," and Exhibit 99.3, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," (d) Generation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.5, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation," and Exhibit 99.6, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and (e) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXELON CORPORATION COMMONWEALTH EDISON COMPANY PECO ENERGY COMPANY EXELON GENERATION COMPANY, LLC
J. Barry Mitchell Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
/s/ J. Barry Mitchell          
October 26, 2005

 
(October 26, 2005)  Exelon Corporation's (Exelon) third quarter 2005 consolidated earnings prepared in accordance with GAAP were $725 million, or $1.07 per diluted share, compared with $568 million, or $0.85 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2004.
Chicago
Exelon's adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the third quarter of 2005 were $645 million, or $0.95 per diluted share, compared with $573 million, or $0.86 per diluted share, for the same period in 2004. The 10.5 percent year-over-year increase in adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings per share was due to higher margins on wholesale market sales at Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) and increased retail deliveries at Exelon Energy Delivery (Energy Delivery). These positive factors were partially offset by a substantial increase, at Generation, in both the cost and volume of sales to Energy Delivery (currently served at fixed, below-market rates) and higher operating and maintenance expenses. Generation's increased sales to Energy Delivery resulted from unusually hot summer weather combined with a higher-than-expected number of customers returning from alternative electric suppliers to Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) and PECO Energy Company (PECO).
A non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the third quarter of 2005 do not include the following items that are included in reported GAAP earnings (all after-tax):
 
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the third quarter of 2004 did not include the following items that were included in reported GAAP earnings (all after-tax):
"I am, of course, delighted by the 10 percent increase in operating earnings per share," said John W. Rowe, Exelon's chairman, president and CEO. "Ironically, while the warm weather, which continued into September, benefited our Energy Delivery business, it held back the profitability of our Generation business, which had to meet unexpectedly high demand from affiliates at frozen, below-market rates. Nonetheless, Exelon Generation realized increased overall earnings as it continued to benefit from its large, well-run nuclear fleet."
"On a broader front, we have just passed the fifth anniversary of the merger between Unicom and PECO, which created Exelon  a merger which has been a great success by every measure," Rowe continued. "We are now working towards securing the remaining regulatory approvals for our proposed merger with PSEG to create an even better company. In Illinois, we are working to reach a reasonable resolution of ComEd's two rate filings and to ensure continued reliable service to customers after 2006."
2005 Earnings Outlook
Rowe added, "We are confirming our 2005 guidance range of $3.00 to $3.15 per share, which reflects our expectations for continued strong earnings growth for the balance of the year." Exelon's 2005 guidance is for adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings.
Exelon's outlook for 2005 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings excludes unrealized mark-to-market adjustments from non-trading activities, income resulting from investments in synthetic fuel-producing facilities, the financial impact of the company's investment in Sithe, certain severance costs, the cumulative effect of the adoption of FIN 47  "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations," and costs associated with the proposed merger with PSEG. Giving consideration to these factors, Exelon estimates GAAP earnings will fall in the range of $3.05 to $3.20 per share in 2005. These estimates do not include any impact of future changes to GAAP. Earnings guidance is based on the assumption of normal weather.
Third Quarter Highlights
2
 
3
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
consists of the retail electricity transmission and distribution operations of ComEd and PECO and the natural gas distribution business of PECO. Energy Delivery's net income in the third quarter of 2005 was $389 million compared with net income of $262 million in the third quarter of 2004. Third quarter 2004 net income included an after-tax charge of $64 million related to debt retirement charges associated with ComEd's accelerated liability management plan and after-tax severance and severance-related costs of $12 million. Excluding the impact of these items, Energy Delivery's net income increased $51 million compared with the same quarter last year, primarily due to increased retail kWh deliveries from warmer summer weather and lower interest costs, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses and higher competitive transition cost (CTC) amortization at PECO.
Exelon Energy Delivery
Cooling degree-days for the third quarter of 2005 in the ComEd service territory were up 91 percent relative to the same period in 2004 and were 34 percent above normal. In the PECO service territory, cooling degree-days were up 38 percent compared with 2004 and were 31 percent above normal. Retail kWh deliveries increased 13 percent in 2005 as compared with 2004 for ComEd, with a 32 percent increase in deliveries to the residential customer class. PECO's retail kWh deliveries increased 10 percent, with residential deliveries up 18 percent. Energy Delivery's third quarter 2005 revenues were $3,270 million, up 15 percent from $2,844 million in 2004. Within Energy Delivery, weather had a favorable impact of $0.15 on third quarter 2005 earnings per diluted share relative to 2004 and had a $0.08 favorable impact relative to the normal weather that was incorporated in earnings guidance.
consists of Exelon's electric generation operations, competitive retail sales and power marketing and trading functions. Third quarter 2005 net income was $335 million compared with $319 million in the third quarter of 2004. Third quarter 2005 net income included after-tax unrealized mark-to-market gains of $53 million from non-trading activities. Third quarter 2004 net income included after-tax unrealized mark-to-market gains of $35 million from non-trading activities, after-tax earnings of $25 million from the reimbursement of costs incurred prior to 2004 under the DOE settlement related to spent nuclear fuel, and after-tax severance and severance-related costs of $7 million. Excluding the impact of
Exelon Generation
4
 
these items, Generation's net income increased $15 million compared with the same quarter last year, primarily due to higher revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses.
Generation's revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, increased by $118 million in the third quarter of 2005 compared with the third quarter of 2004 excluding the mark-to-market impact in both years. The quarter-over-quarter increase in revenue, net of purchased power and fuel expense, was driven by higher average margins on wholesale market sales, due to having previously re-priced forward hedges at higher prices, combined with higher spot market prices. Partially offsetting the benefit of higher margins on market sales was a substantial increase in both the cost and volume of sales to ComEd and PECO, both of which are currently served at fixed, below-market rates. The increased sales to ComEd and PECO resulted from unusually hot summer weather combined with a higher-than-expected number of customers returning from alternative electric suppliers to the two utilities. This forced Generation to purchase large amounts of power in the wholesale market, as well as forego more profitable market sales. Generation routinely plans for the possibility of high affiliate demand in the summer; however, this year's extreme heat and associated high demand for electricity also extended well into September when energy prices were surging due to the hurricanes in the Gulf-Coast region.
Generation's average realized margin on all electric sales, including sales to affiliates and excluding trading activity, was $18.52 per MWh in the third quarter of 2005 compared with $17.41 per MWh in the third quarter of 2004.
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings, which generally exclude significant one-time charges or credits that are not normally associated with ongoing operations and unrealized mark-to-market adjustments from non-trading activities, are provided as a supplement to results reported in accordance with GAAP. Management uses such adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings measures internally to evaluate the company's performance and manage its operations. Reconciliations of GAAP to adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for historical periods are attached. Additional earnings release attachments, which include these reconciliations on pages 7 and 8, are posted on Exelon's web site: and have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K on October 26, 2005.
www.exeloncorp.com
Exelon has scheduled a conference call for 11 AM ET (10 AM CT) on October 26, 2005. The call-in number in the U.S. is 888-802-8581, and the international call-in number is 973-935-8515. No password is required. Media representatives are invited to participate on a listen-only basis. The call will be web-cast and archived on Exelon's web site: . (Please select the Investor Relations page.)
Conference call information:
www.exeloncorp.com
Telephone replays will be available until November 15. The U.S. call-in number for replays is 877-519-4471, and the international call-in number is 973-341-3080. The confirmation code is 6574356.
 
 
 
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon Corporation's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation and
5
 
(b) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon-Note 20, ComEd-Note 15, PECO-Note 14 and Generation-Note 16 and (2) Exelon's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005 in (a) Exhibit 99.2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Exelon  Business Outlook and the Challenges in Managing the Business and (b) Exhibit 99.3 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Exelon Corporation and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by Exelon Corporation, Commonwealth Edison Company, PECO Energy Company and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Companies). A discussion of risks associated with the proposed merger of Exelon and Public Service Enterprise Group, Incorporated (PSEG) is included in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that Exelon filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 
424(b)(3)
on June 3, 2005 (Registration No. 333-122704). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this news release. None of the Companies undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release.
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately 5.2 million customers and more than $14 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.2 million customers in Illinois and Pennsylvania and gas to approximately 460,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
n/anot applicable
 
 
n/anot applicable
 
 
 
 


