FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20050927190101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 27-28, 2005, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) will participate in the Merrill Lynch Power & Gas Leaders Conference in New York City. Attached as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the slides and handouts to be used at the conference. During the conference, Exelon will announce that given first half results and the results of July and August, Exelon anticipates that adjusted (non-GAAP) year-end operating earnings will be in the upper half of the range of Exelon's most recently announced guidance for adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings, which was $3.00 to $3.15 for 2005. A reconciliation of GAAP earnings to adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings is included in the appendix to the slides attached as Exhibit 99.
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Generation, (b) the Registrants' 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ExelonNote 20, ComEdNote 15, PECONote 14 and GenerationNote 16, (c) Exelon's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.2 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation " and Exhibit 99.3 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data", (d) Generation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 13, 2005, including those discussed in Exhibit 99.5 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and Exhibit 99.6 "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and (e) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
September 27, 2005

 
Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix:
 
 
Rod R. Blagojevich
     
Governor
     August 31,2005
     Dear Commissioners.
I have been closely following the developments of Commonwealth Edison's ("ComEd") proposal before the Illinois Commerce Commission ("ICC") to approve a procurement process (in this instance, a "reverse auction" has been proposed) that will result in the purchase of wholesale power at market-based prices (docket No. 05-0159). Please make this document available to all parties to this proceeding and make it a part of the record of docket No. 05-0159 as the position of an interested party.
The road towards deregulation of the electric industry began in 1997 with amendments to the Public Utilities Act ("PUA"). Deregulation is based upon the predicate that regulation is unnecessary in a competitive market. A competitive market will drive down retail rates and make regulation unnecessary. However, in 2001, this transition period was extended because competition had not yet developed. To date, this competition has still not yet developed for most markets especially the market for residential ratepayers. Therefore, the principles of deregulation have not been achieved.
The PUA only authorizes the Commission to approve market-based rates for customers who take electric service that has been declared "competitive" pursuant to Section 16-113 of the Act. Rate increases are unjustified and the ICC is without authority to approve the market-based rates for the procurement of power, including the reverse auction, until this service has been declared "competitive."
I appointed members of the Commission to protect the consumer. It is your job to ensure that rates remain just and reasonable, and to reject filings that circumvent the law or the intention of the law. I consider an approval of a reverse auction procurement process of market-based rates for wholesale power either a serious neglect of duty or gross incompetence by the ICC.
I will take whatever action is necessary to protect the public and ensure that the law is followed. Unless and until a competitive market develops, the request for higher rates must be rejected.
 
Therefore, I urge you to uphold your duty to properly apply the law, protect Illinois consumers, and refuse to abandon the long-standing consumer protections provided by the PUA, I request that you dismiss ComEd's request for approval of the market-based rates of a reverse auction requested in Rider CCP of docket number 05-0159 and any current or future filing authorizing a reverse auction or any similar procurement process. I urge you to declare that competition does not exist in the residential market and therefore refuse to approve any retail rate filing or tariff that utilizes any such procurement process.
Sincerely,


