FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20050308080041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Section 2  Financial Information Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
In a report filed on November 16, 2004, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) announced a proposal to make contributions of approximately $2 billion in 2005 to Exelon's defined benefit pension plans in order to eliminate the under-funded status of those plans. Exelon's Board of Directors subsequently approved that proposal on December 7, 2004.
On March 7, 2005, Exelon entered into a $2 billion term loan agreement with Citicorp North America, Inc., the proceeds from which are intended to finance the pension funding announced in 2004. The agreement requires a commitment fee payable by Exelon on the last day of each calendar quarter and on the date on which the commitments to lend under the agreement are reduced to zero and carries interest at a variable rate determined, at Exelon's option, by either the Base Rate or the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the bridge loan agreement). Lending commitments under the agreement terminate on the earlier of September 16, 2005 or the date of the third draw down on the agreement and the loan amount outstanding is due in full on December 1, 2005. Exelon expects to repay the amount outstanding primarily with the proceeds from long-term debt financing that Exelon expects will be issued later this year.
Exelon expects to draw approximately $1.2 billion on the term loan agreement on March 10, 2005, and will immediately contribute that amount to Exelon's defined benefit pension plans. Additional draws of $800 million are expected to be made later in 2005 to fund additional contributions to the pension plans.
The term loan agreement is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by Exelon include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) Exelon's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationBusiness Outlook and the Challenges in Managing Our Business for each of Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation), (b) Exelon's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ExelonNote 20, ComEdNote 15, PECONote 14 and GenerationNote 16 and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by Exelon. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. Exelon undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
 
      Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (the ""), the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereof and Citicorp North America, Inc. (""), as Administrative Agent, hereby agree as follows:
Borrower
CNAI
      SECTION 1.01 . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below (each such meaning to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the term defined):
Certain Defined Terms
      "" means, for any period, Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities for such period Transitional Funding Instrument Revenue for such period Net Interest Expense for such period , to the extent applicable, the portion (but, if the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than any Sithe Entity) has made any loans or advances to, or investments in, any Sithe Entity during such period, not less than zero) of Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities attributable to any Sithe Entity.
Adjusted Funds From Operations
minus
plus
minus
      "" means CNAI in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders pursuant to , and not in its individual capacity as a Lender, and any successor Administrative Agent appointed pursuant to .
Administrative Agent
Article VII
Article VII
      "" means an administrative questionnaire, substantially in the form supplied by the Administrative Agent, completed by a Lender and furnished to the Administrative Agent in connection with this Agreement.
Administrative Questionnaire
      "" means a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance, each of which is a "" of Advance.
Advance
Type
      "" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person.
Affiliate
      "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
      ""  see .
Applicable Margin
Schedule I
      "" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of .
Assignment and Acceptance
Exhibit C
 
      "" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the higher of:
Base Rate
     (a) the Prime Rate; and
     (b) the sum of 0.5% per annum the Federal Funds Rate in effect from time to time.
plus
      "" means a tranche of a Loan that bears interest as provided in Section .
Base Rate Advance
2.06(a)
      "" means a group of Advances of all Lenders of the same Type and, if such Borrowing consists of Eurodollar Rate Advances, having the same Interest Period.
Borrowing
      "" means a day on which banks are not required or authorized to close in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Chicago, Illinois or New York, New York, and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
      "" shall mean the date of the initial drawdown hereunder.
Closing Date
      "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, in each case as amended, reformed or otherwise modified from time to time.
Code
      "" means Commonwealth Edison Company, an Illinois corporation.
ComEd
      "" means the Mortgage, dated July 1, 1923, as amended and supplemented by supplemental indentures, including the Supplemental Indenture, dated August 1, 1944, from ComEd to Harris Trust and Savings Bank and D.G. Donovan, as trustees; that no effect shall be given to any amendment, supplement or refinancing after the date of this Agreement that would broaden the definition of "permitted liens" as defined in the ComEd Mortgage as constituted on the date of this Agreement.
ComEd Mortgage
provided
      ""  see .
Commitment
Section 2.01
      ""  see .
Commitment Fee Rate
Schedule I
      "" means the earliest of (i) September 16, 2005, (ii) the date of the third drawdown hereunder or (iii) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to or .
Commitment Termination Date
Section 2.04
Section 6.01
      "" mean, with respect to any Person, the obligations of such Person under (i) any commodity swap agreement, commodity future agreement, commodity option agreement, commodity cap agreement, commodity floor agreement, commodity collar agreement, commodity hedge agreement, commodity forward contract or derivative transaction and any put, call or other agreement, arrangement or transaction, including natural gas, power and emissions forward contracts, or any combination of any such arrangements, agreements and/or transactions, employed in the ordinary course of such Person's business, including any
Commodity Trading Obligations
 
such Person's energy marketing, trading and asset optimization business, or (ii) any commodity swap agreement, commodity future agreement, commodity option agreement, commodity hedge agreement, and any put, call or other agreement or arrangement, or combination thereof (including an agreement or arrangement to hedge foreign exchange risks) in respect of commodities entered into by such Person pursuant to asset optimization and risk management policies and procedures adopted in good faith by the Board of Directors (or similar governing body) of such Person. The term "commodities" shall include electric energy and/or capacity, coal, petroleum, natural gas, emissions allowances, weather derivatives and related products and by-products and ancillary services.
      "" means all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control that, together with the Borrower or any Subsidiary, are treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or 414(c) of the Code.
Controlled Group
      "" means (i) indebtedness for borrowed money, (ii) obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business), (iv) obligations as lessee under leases that shall have been or are required to be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (v) obligations (contingent or otherwise) under reimbursement or similar agreements with respect to the issuance of letters of credit (other than obligations in respect of documentary letters of credit opened to provide for the payment of goods or services purchased in the ordinary course of business) and (vi) obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to in through above.
Debt
clauses (i)
(v)
      "" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
      "" means (i) a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof; (ii) a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country that is a member of the OECD or has concluded special lending arrangements with the International Monetary Fund associated with its General Arrangements to Borrow, or a political subdivision of any such country, provided that such bank is acting through a branch or agency located in the United States; (iii) a finance company, insurance company or other financial institution or fund (whether a corporation, partnership or other entity) engaged generally in making, purchasing or otherwise investing in commercial loans in the ordinary course of its business; (iv) the central bank of any country that is a member of the OECD; (v) any Lender; or (vi) any Affiliate of a Lender; that, unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in their sole discretion, (A) any Person described in , or above shall also (x) have outstanding unsecured long-term debt that is rated BBB- or better by S&P and Baa3 or better by Moody's (or an equivalent rating by another nationally recognized credit rating agency of similar standing if either such corporation is no longer in the business of
Eligible Assignee
provided
clause (i)
(ii)
(iii)
 
rating unsecured indebtedness of entities engaged in such businesses) and (y) have combined capital and surplus (as established in its most recent report of condition to its primary regulator) of not less than $100,000,000 (or its equivalent in foreign currency), and (B) any Person described in , , or above shall, on the date on which it is to become a Lender hereunder, be entitled to receive payments hereunder without deduction or withholding of any United States Federal income taxes (as contemplated by ).
clause (ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(vi)
Section 2.14(e)
      "" means a Person which (i) is a corporation, limited liability company or business trust duly incorporated or organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of one of the states of the United States or the District of Columbia, (ii) as a result of a contemplated acquisition, consolidation or merger, will succeed to all or substantially all of the consolidated business and assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, (iii) upon giving effect to such contemplated acquisition, consolidation or merger, will have all or substantially all of its consolidated business and assets conducted and located in the United States and (iv) is acceptable to the Majority Lenders as a credit matter.
Eligible Successor
      "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder, each as amended and modified from time to time.
ERISA
      "" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
      "" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
      "" means, for each Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance made as part of a Borrowing, the applicable British Bankers' Association LIBOR rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having a maturity equal to such Interest Period, as reported by any generally recognized financial information service as of 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period; that if no such British Bankers' Association LIBOR rate is available to the Administrative Agent, the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period shall instead be the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which CNAI or one of its Affiliate banks offers to place deposits in U.S. dollars with first-class banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, in the approximate amount of CNAI's relevant Eurodollar Rate Advance and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate
provided
      "" means a tranche of a Loan that bears interest as provided in .
Eurodollar Rate Advance
Section 2.06(b)
      "" of any Lender for any Interest Period means the reserve percentage applicable during such Interest Period (or if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average of such percentages for those days in such Interest
Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage
 
Period during which any such percentage shall be so applicable) under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for such Lender with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities having a term equal to such Interest Period.
      ""  see .
Event of Default
Section 6.01
      "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and modified from time to time.
Exchange Act
      "" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
      ""  see .
GAAP
Section 1.03
      "" means Exelon Generation Company, LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company.
Genco
      ""  see .
Granting Lender
Section 8.07(h)
      "" mean, with respect to any Person, the obligations of such Person under any interest rate or currency swap agreement, interest rate or currency future agreement, interest rate collar agreement, interest rate or currency hedge agreement, and any put, call or other agreement or arrangement designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates.
Hedging Obligations
      "" means, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, the ratio of Adjusted Funds From Operations for such period to Net Interest Expense for such period.
Interest Coverage Ratio
      "" means, for any period, "interest expense" as shown on a consolidated statement of income of the Borrower for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
      "" means, for any period, "Interest Expense to Affiliates" as shown on a consolidated statement of income of the Borrower for such period.
Interest Expense to Affiliates
      "" means, for each Eurodollar Rate Advance, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Advance is made or is converted from a Base Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower
Interest Period
 
pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each Interest Period shall be 1, 2 or 3 months, as the Borrower may select in accordance with or ; that:
Section 2.02
2.09
provided
     (i) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after the scheduled Maturity Date;
     (ii) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Advances made as part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
     (iii) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, that if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
     (iv) if there is no day in the appropriate calendar month at the end of such Interest Period numerically corresponding to the first day of such Interest Period, then such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such appropriate calendar month.
      "" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in its capacity as lead arranger and sole book runner.
Lead Arranger
      "" means the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereof and each Eligible Assignee that shall become a party hereto pursuant to .
Lenders
Section 8.07
      "" means any lien (statutory or other), mortgage, pledge, security interest or other charge or encumbrance, or any other type of preferential arrangement (including the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale, capitalized lease or other title retention agreement).
Lien
      ""  see .
Loan
Section 2.01
      "" means Lenders having Pro Rata Shares of more than 50% ( that, for purposes of this definition, neither the Borrower nor any of its Affiliates, if a Lender, shall be included in (i) the Lenders having such amount of the Pro Rata Shares or (ii) determining the amount of the Commitments and/or the Loans which constitute 100% of the Pro Rata Shares).
Majority Lenders
provided
      "" and "" each means, relative to any occurrence, fact or circumstances of whatsoever nature (including any determination in any litigation, arbitration or governmental investigation or proceeding) with respect to the Borrower, (i) any materially adverse change in, or materially adverse effect on, the financial condition, operations, assets or business of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (ii) any materially adverse effect on the validity or enforceability against the Borrower of this Agreement or any applicable Note.
Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Effect
 
      "" means each of ComEd, PECO and Genco and any holding company for any of the foregoing.
Material Subsidiary
      "" means December 1, 2005 (or such earlier date on which the Loans become due and payable in full).
Maturity Date
      "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
      "" means, at any time, the rating issued by Moody's and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
Moody's Rating
      "" means a Plan maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or any other arrangement to which the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group is a party to which more than one employer is obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
      "" means, for any period, "Net Cash Flows provided by Operating Activities" as shown on a consolidated statement of cash flows of the Borrower for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP, any "working capital changes" (as shown on such statement of cash flows) taken into account in determining such Net Cash Flows provided by Operating Activities.
Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities
excluding
      "" means any cash proceeds received by the Borrower pursuant to any issuance of (i) equity securities (excluding any issuance pursuant to any employee stock option plan, employee stock purchase plan or dividend reinvestment plan in the ordinary course of business) or (ii) Debt of the types described in or of the definition of "Debt" (excluding (x) the Loans, (y) commercial paper issued in the ordinary course of business and revolving credit borrowings to pay commercial paper maturing in the ordinary course of business and (z) up to $300,000,000 in the aggregate of other long-term Debt the proceeds of which are used to repay (A) maturing commercial paper of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or (B) revolving credit borrowings of the Borrower or any Subsidiary used to pay commercial paper maturing in the ordinary course of business), in each case net of the direct costs relating to such issuance (including sales and underwriter's discounts and commissions, upfront fees and legal, accounting and investment banking fees).
Net Cash Proceeds
clause (i)
(ii)
      "" means, for any period, the total of (a) Interest Expense for such period (b) Interest Expense to Affiliates for such period to the extent such Interest Expense to Affiliates (i) is included in Interest Expense and (ii) relates to (x) interest payments on Transitional Funding Instruments, (y) subordinated debt obligations of ComEd or PECO issued in connection with trust preferred securities or (z) debt obligations that are subordinated to the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (c) interest on Sithe Project Debt for such period.
Net Interest Expense
minus
minus
      "" means any Debt that finances the acquisition, development, ownership or operation of an asset in respect of which the Person to which such Debt is owed has no recourse whatsoever to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates other than:
Nonrecourse Indebtedness
 
      "" means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of a Lender, in substantially the form of , evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by such Lender to the Borrower.
Note
Exhibit A
      ""  see .
Notice of Drawdown
Section 2.02(a)
      "" means the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
OECD
      "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
      "" means PECO Energy Company, a Pennsylvania corporation.
PECO
      "" means the First and Refunding Mortgage, dated as of May 1, 1923, between The Counties Gas & Electric Company (to which PECO is successor) and Fidelity Trust Company, Trustee (to which First Union National Bank is successor), as amended, supplemented or refinanced from time to time, that no effect shall be given to any amendment, supplement or refinancing after the date of this Agreement that would broaden the definition of "excepted encumbrances" as defined in the PECO Mortgage as constituted on the date of this Agreement.
PECO Mortgage
provided
      "" means, with respect to Genco or any of its Subsidiaries, (i) Hedging Obligations arising in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with such Person's established risk management policies that are designed to protect such Person against, among other things, fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates and which in the case of agreements relating to interest rates shall have a notional amount no greater than the payments due with respect to the Obligations being hedged thereby and (ii) Commodity Trading Obligations.
Permitted Obligations
 
      "" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
      "" means an employee pension benefit plan that is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code as to which the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group may have any liability.
Plan
      "" means a rate per annum equal to the prime rate of interest announced by CNAI (which is not necessarily the lowest rate charged to any customer), changing when and as said prime rate changes.
Prime Rate
      "" means (i) each Utility Subsidiary (other than Commonwealth Edison Company of Indiana, Inc., so long as it does not qualify as a Principal Subsidiary under the following ) and (ii) each other Subsidiary the assets of which exceeded $250,000,000 in book value at any time during the preceding 24-month period.
Principal Subsidiary
clause (ii)
      "" means, for any Lender, the percentage which (i) the sum of such Lender's Commitment and the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Loan is of (ii) the sum of all Commitments of all Lenders plus the outstanding principal amount of all Loans.
Pro Rata Share
      ""  see .
Proceeds Application Amount
Section 2.10(b)
      ""  see .
Register
Section 8.07(c)
      "" means a reportable event as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and regulations issued under such section with respect to a Plan, excluding, however, such events as to which the PBGC by regulation waived the requirement of Section 4043(a) of ERISA that it be notified within 30 days of the occurrence of such event, provided that a failure to meet the minimum funding standard of Section 412 of the Code and Section 302 of ERISA shall be a Reportable Event regardless of the issuance of any such waivers in accordance with either Section 4043(a) of ERISA or Section 412(d) of the Code.
Reportable Event
      "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
      "" means, at any time, the rating issued by S&P and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
S&P Rating
      "" means a Plan maintained by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group for employees of the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group.
Single Employer Plan
      "" means Sithe Energies, Inc.
Sithe Energies
 
      "" means each of Sithe Energies and Sithe Holdings and each of their respective Subsidiaries.
Sithe Entity
      "" means Exelon New England Holdings LLC (formerly known as Sithe New England Holdings LLC).
Sithe Holdings
      "" means Debt of any Sithe Entity for which neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary (other than another Sithe Entity) has any liability, contingent or otherwise.
Sithe Project Debt
      ""  see .
SPC
Section 8.07(h)
      "" means a direct or indirect wholly owned corporate Subsidiary of ComEd or PECO, substantially all of the assets of which are "intangible transition property" (as defined in Section 18-102 of the Illinois Public Utilities Law, as amended, or in 66 Pa. Cons. Stat. Ann. ss.2812(g) (West Supp. 1997) or any successor provision of similar import), and proceeds thereof, formed solely for the purpose of holding such assets and issuing such Transitional Funding Instruments, and which complies with the requirements customarily imposed on bankruptcy-remote corporations in receivables securitizations.
Special Purpose Subsidiary
      "" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or unincorporated entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock (or comparable interest) having ordinary voting power (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock, or comparable interests, of any other class or classes of such corporation or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person (whether directly or through one or more other Subsidiaries). Unless the context otherwise requires, each reference to Subsidiaries herein shall be a reference to Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
      ""  see .
Taxes
Section 2.14
      "" means any instruments, pass-through certificates, notes, debentures, certificates of participation, bonds, certificates of beneficial interest or other evidences of indebtedness or instruments evidencing a beneficial interest which (i) in the case of ComEd (A) are issued pursuant to a "transitional funding order" (as such term is defined in Section 18-102 of the Illinois Public Utilities Act, as amended) issued by the Illinois Commerce Commission at the request of an electric utility and (B) are secured by or otherwise payable from non-bypassable cent per kilowatt hour charges authorized pursuant to such order to be applied and invoiced to customers of such utility and (ii) in the case of PECO, are "transition bonds" (as defined in 66 Pa. Cons. Stat. Ann. ss.2812(g) (West Supp. 1997), or any successor provision of similar import), representing a securitization of "intangible transition property" (as defined in the foregoing statute). The instrument funding charges so applied and invoiced must be deducted and stated separately from the other charges invoiced by such utility against its customers.
Transitional Funding Instrument
      "" means, for any period, the portion of the Borrower's consolidated revenue for such period attributable to charges invoiced to customers in respect of Transitional Funding Instruments.
Transitional Funding Instrument Revenue
      ""  see the definition of "Advance".
Type
 
      "" means, (i) in the case of any Single Employer Plan, the amount (if any) by which the present value of all vested nonforfeitable benefits under such Plan exceeds the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such benefits, all determined as of the then most recent evaluation date for such Plan, and (ii) in the case of any Multiemployer Plan, the withdrawal liability that would be incurred by the Controlled Group if all members of the Controlled Group completely withdrew from such Multiemployer Plan.
Unfunded Liabilities
      "" means any event which (if it continues uncured) will, with lapse of time or notice or both, become an Event of Default.
Unmatured Event of Default
      "" means ComEd, PECO and each other Subsidiary of the Borrower that is engaged principally in the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity or gas and is subject to rate regulation as a public utility by federal or state regulatory authorities.
Utility Subsidiary
      SECTION 1.02 . In this Agreement, (a) in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each means "to but excluding"; (b) unless otherwise indicated, any reference to an , , or means an Article or Section hereof or an Exhibit or Schedule hereto; and (c) the term "including" means "including without limitation".
Other Interpretive Provisions
Article
Section
Exhibit
Schedule
      SECTION 1.03 . (a) As used in this Agreement, "GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, applied on a basis consistent with the principles used in preparing the Borrower's audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2004 and for the fiscal year then ended. In this Agreement, except to the extent, if any, otherwise provided herein, all accounting and financial terms shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms by GAAP, and all computations and determinations as to accounting and financial matters shall be made in accordance with GAAP. In the event that the financial statements generally prepared by the Borrower apply accounting principles other than GAAP (including as a result of any event described in ), the compliance certificate delivered pursuant to accompanying such financial statements shall include information in reasonable detail reconciling such financial statements to GAAP to the extent relevant to the calculations set forth in such compliance certificate.
Accounting Principles
Section 1.03(b)
Section 5.01(b)(iv)
      (b) If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth herein and the Borrower or the Majority Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Majority Lenders); that, until so amended, such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein.
provided
      SECTION 2.01 . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make a term loan (each a "") to the Borrower in an amount not to
The Loans
Loan
 
exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on hereof or, if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Acceptance, set forth in such Assignment and Acceptance, as such amount may be reduced pursuant to (such Lender's ""). The Borrower may borrow the Loans in up to three drawdowns on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the Commitment Termination Date. Each drawdown shall be in an integral multiple of $5,000,000. The Loan of each Lender may be divided into tranches which may be Base Rate Advances or Eurodollar Rate Advances; that each Lender's Advances shall be maintained so that at all times such Lender has a Pro Rata Share of each Borrowing. Each Borrowing comprised of Base Rate Advances shall be in the amount of $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000, and each Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be in the amount of $10,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000.
Schedule 2.01
Section 2.04
Commitment
provided
      SECTION 2.02 . (a) Each drawdown shall be made on notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed drawdown if such drawdown is to include Eurodollar Rate Advances, and on the date of the proposed drawdown if such drawdown is solely comprised of Base Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof. Each such notice of drawdown (a "") shall be sent by facsimile, confirmed immediately in writing, in substantially the form of , specifying therein the requested (i) date of such drawdown, (ii) Type of Advances to be made in connection with such drawdown, (iii) aggregate amount of such drawdown and (iv) in the case of a drawdown which includes one or more Borrowings of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the initial Interest Period for each such Borrowing. Each Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York time) on the date of such drawdown, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Administrative Agent at its address referred to in , in same day funds, such Lender's Pro Rata Share of such drawdown. After the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Administrative Agent's aforesaid address.
The Drawdowns
Notice of Drawdown
Exhibit B
Section 8.02
Article III
      (b) Each Notice of Drawdown shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. If a Notice of Drawdown specifies that the related drawdown is to include Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Drawdown the applicable conditions set forth in , including any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund any Eurodollar Rate Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such drawdown when such Eurodollar Rate Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
Article III
      (c) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the date of a drawdown that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such drawdown, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such drawdown in accordance with of this and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable
subsection (a)
Section 2.02
 
portion available to the Administrative Agent, such Lender and the Borrower agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate (or the average of the rates) applicable at the time to Advances made in connection with such drawdown and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such drawdown for purposes of this Agreement.
      (d) The failure of any Lender to fund any portion of the Loan to be made by it on the date of a drawdown shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to fund the relevant portion of its Loan on the date of such drawdown or any subsequent drawdown, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to fund any portion of the Loan to be made by such other Lender on the date of a drawdown.
      (e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no more than six Borrowings comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances may be outstanding at any time.
      SECTION 2.03 . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee on the average daily undrawn portion of such Lender's Commitment from the date hereof until the Commitment Termination Date, payable in arrears on the last day of each calendar quarter and on the Commitment Termination Date, at a percentage rate per annum equal to the applicable Commitment Fee Rate in effect from time to time, changing when and as the applicable Commitment Fee Rate changes.
Fees
      (b) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger, for their respective accounts, such additional fees, in such amounts and payable on such dates as may be agreed to in writing from time to time between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent or the Lead Arranger, as the case may be.
      SECTION 2.04 . The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least two Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, to terminate in whole or reduce ratably in part the undrawn portions of the respective Commitments of the Lenders; that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof. In addition, (i) on the date of each of the first and second drawdown of the Loans, the Commitment of each Lender shall be reduced by the principal amount of the Advances of such Lender on such date; (ii) concurrently with the receipt by the Borrower of any Net Cash Proceeds, the Commitment of each Lender shall be further reduced by an amount equal to such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the excess (rounded down, if necessary, to an integral multiple of $1,000,000), if any, of the applicable Proceeds Application Amount over the amount required to pay the then outstanding Loans in full pursuant to ; and (iii) upon the making of the third drawdown, the Commitments shall be reduced to zero.
Reduction of the Commitments
provided
Section 2.10(b)
      SECTION 2.05 . The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of each Loan on or before the Maturity Date.
Repayment of Loans
 
      SECTION 2.06 . The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance of each Lender, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Advances
      (a) . If such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the Base Rate in effect from time to time, payable on the last day of each calendar quarter and on the date such Base Rate Advance is converted to a Eurodollar Rate Advance or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
      (b) . Subject to , if such Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable on the last day of each Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advance or, if earlier, on the date such Eurodollar Rate Advance is converted to a Base Rate Loan or paid in full.
Eurodollar Rate Advances
Section 2.07
plus
      SECTION 2.07 . The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, so long as such Lender shall be required under regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities, additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Advance of such Lender, for each Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advance, at an interest rate per annum equal at all times to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing such Eurodollar Rate by a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage of such Lender for such Interest Period, payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Advance; that no Lender shall be entitled to demand such additional interest more than 90 days following the last day of the Interest Period in respect of which such demand is made; and , , that the foregoing proviso shall in no way limit the right of any Lender to demand or receive such additional interest to the extent that such additional interest relates to the retroactive application of the reserve requirements described above if such demand is made within 90 days after the implementation of such retroactive reserve requirements. Such additional interest shall be determined by such Lender and notified to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Additional Interest on Advances
provided
provided
further
      SECTION 2.08 . (a) The Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Administrative Agent for purposes of or .
Interest Rate Determination
Section 2.06(a)
(b)
      (b) If, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Majority Lenders notify the Administrative Agent that the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Majority Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon
     (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor (unless prepaid or converted to a Base Rate Advance prior to such day), convert into a Base Rate Advance, and
 
     (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
      SECTION 2.09 . (a) . The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of any proposed conversion into Eurodollar Rate Advances, and on the date of any proposed conversion into Base Rate Advances, and subject to the provisions of and , convert all Advances of one Type made in connection with the same Borrowing into Advances of the other Type or Eurodollar Rate Advances having a new Interest Period; that any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances or Eurodollar Rate Advances having a new Interest Period shall be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Advances, unless the Borrower shall also reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to on the date of such conversion. Each such notice of a conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such conversion, (ii) the Advances to be converted, and (iii) if such conversion is into, or with respect to, Eurodollar Rate Advances, the duration of the Interest Period for such Advances.
Conversion of Advances
Voluntary
Sections 2.08
2.12
provided
Section 8.04(b)
      (b) . If the Borrower shall fail to select the Type of any Advance or the duration of any Interest Period for any Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in and , the Administrative Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, convert into Base Rate Advances.
Automatic
Section 1.01
Section 2.09(a)
      SECTION 2.10 . (a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent at least three Business Days' prior to any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Advances, or one Business Day prior to any prepayment of Base Rate Advances, in each case stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amounts of the Advances made as part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; that (i) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount not less than $10,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000 in the case of any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Advances and $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000 in the case of any prepayment of Base Rate Advances, and (ii) in the case of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders pursuant to on the date of such prepayment.
Prepayments
provided
Section 8.04(b)
      (b) Concurrently with the receipt by the Borrower of any Net Cash Proceeds, the Borrower shall make a prepayment of the Loans in an amount (the "") equal to the remainder (rounded down, if necessary, to an integral multiple of $1,000,000) of (i) all Net Cash Proceeds received since the Closing Date minus (ii) the sum of (x) the aggregate amount of such Net Cash Proceeds previously applied to prepay Loans pursuant to this plus (y) the aggregate amount of Net Cash Proceeds previously applied to reduce the Commitments pursuant to of the second sentence of
Proceeds Application Amount
Section 2.10(b)
clause (ii)
Section 2.04
 
(and, following the payment in full of all outstanding Loans, the remainder of the Proceeds Application Amount shall be applied in accordance with of the second sentence of ). Any such prepayment shall be applied ratably to the Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares and to such Advances as the Borrower shall specify.
clause (ii)
Section 2.04
      (c) The Borrower shall have no right to reborrow any portion of a Loan which has been prepaid.
      SECTION 2.11 . (a) If on or after the date of this Agreement, any Lender determines that (i) the introduction of or any change (other than, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, any change by way of imposition or increase of reserve requirements included in the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage) in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) shall increase the cost to such Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurodollar Rate Advances, then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts (without duplication of any amount payable pursuant to ) sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost; that no Lender shall be entitled to demand such compensation more than 90 days following the last day of the Interest Period in respect of which such demand is made; , , that the foregoing proviso shall in no way limit the right of any Lender to demand or receive such compensation to the extent that such compensation relates to the retroactive application of any law, regulation, guideline or request described in or above if such demand is made within 90 days after the implementation of such retroactive law, interpretation, guideline or request. A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs
Section 2.14
provided
provided
further
clause (i)
(ii)
      (b) If any Lender determines that, after the date of this Agreement, compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) regarding capital adequacy requirements affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any Person controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender's Commitment or the Loan made by such Lender, then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), the Borrower shall immediately pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such controlling Person, as applicable, in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lender's Commitment or the Loan made by such Lender; that no Lender shall be entitled to demand such compensation more than one year following the later of the payment to or for the account of such Lender of all other amounts payable hereunder and under any Note held by such Lender and the termination of such Lender's Commitment; , , that the foregoing proviso shall in no way limit the right of any Lender to demand or receive such compensation to the extent that such compensation relates to the retroactive application of any
provided
provided
further
 
law, regulation, guideline or request described above if such demand is made within one year after the implementation of such retroactive law, interpretation, guideline or request. A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Lender shall be conclusive and binding, for all purposes, absent manifest error.
      (c) Any Lender claiming compensation pursuant to this shall use its best efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such compensation that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
Section 2.11
      SECTION 2.12 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances hereunder, (i) the obligation of such Lender to make, or to convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended (subject to the following paragraph of this ) until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and (ii) all Eurodollar Rate Advances of such Lender then outstanding shall, on the last day of the then applicable Interest Period (or such earlier date as such Lender shall designate upon not less than five Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent), be automatically converted into Base Rate Advances.
Illegality
Section 2.12
      If the obligation of any Lender to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances has been suspended pursuant to the preceding paragraph, then, unless and until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, (i) all Advances that would otherwise be made or maintained by such Lender as Eurodollar Rate Advances shall instead be made or maintained as Base Rate Advances and (ii) to the extent that Eurodollar Rate Advances of such Lender have been converted into Base Rate Advances pursuant to the preceding paragraph or made instead as Base Rate Advances pursuant to the preceding clause (i), all payments and prepayments of principal that would have otherwise been applied to such Eurodollar Rate Advances of such Lender shall be applied instead to such Base Rate Advances of such Lender.
      SECTION 2.13 . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder and under any Note not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York time) on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Administrative Agent at its address referred to in in same day funds without setoff, counterclaim or other deduction. The Administrative Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or commitment fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section , , , (with respect to interest on a Base Rate Advance which, absent an event described in such Section, would otherwise be a Eurodollar Rate Advance), or ) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms
Payments and Computations
Section 8.02
2.02(c)
2.07
2.11
2.12
2.14
8.04(b)
 
of this Agreement. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Acceptance and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to , from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Acceptance, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments hereunder in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
Section 8.07(d)
      (b) The Borrower hereby authorizes each Lender, if and to the extent payment owed to such Lender is not made when due hereunder, to charge from time to time against any or all of the Borrower's accounts with such Lender any amount so due.
      (c) All computations of interest based on the Prime Rate shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of commitment fees shall be made by the Administrative Agent, and all computations of interest pursuant to shall be made by a Lender, on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or commitment fees are payable. Each determination by the Administrative Agent (or, in the case of , by a Lender) of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Section 2.07
Section 2.07
      (d) Whenever any payment hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of any interest or commitment fee, as the case may be; that if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of a Eurodollar Rate Advance to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
      (e) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent on such date and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent that the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
      (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder that is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) shall (to the fullest extent permitted by law) bear interest from the date when due until paid in full at a rate per annum equal at all times to the Base Rate 2%, payable upon demand.
plus
 
      SECTION 2.14 . (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder or under any Note shall be made, in accordance with , free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, , in the case of each Lender and the Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on its income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter referred to as ""). If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note to any Lender or the Administrative Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this ) such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
Section 2.13
excluding
Taxes
Section 2.14
      (b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies to the extent arising from the execution, delivery or registration of this Agreement or the Notes (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
      (c) No Lender may claim or demand payment or reimbursement in respect of any Taxes or Other Taxes pursuant to this if such Taxes or Other Taxes, as the case may be, were imposed solely as the result of a voluntary change in the location of the jurisdiction of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office.
Section 2.14
      (d) The Borrower will indemnify each Lender and the Administrative Agent for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this ) paid by such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor.
Section 2.14
      (e) Prior to the date of the first drawdown in the case of each Lender listed on the signature pages hereof, and on the date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter within 30 days from the date of request if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States shall provide the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with the forms prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States certifying that such Lender is exempt from United States withholding taxes with respect to all payments to be made to such Lender hereunder and under any Note. If for any reason during the term of this Agreement, any Lender becomes unable to
 
submit the forms referred to above or the information or representations contained therein are no longer accurate in any material respect, such Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower in writing to that effect. Unless the Borrower and the Administrative Agent have received forms or other documents satisfactory to them indicating that payments hereunder or under any Note are not subject to United States withholding tax, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall withhold taxes from such payments at the applicable statutory rate in the case of payments to or for any Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States and no Lender may claim or demand payment or reimbursement for such withheld taxes pursuant to this .
Section 2.14
      (f) Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this shall use its best efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such additional amounts which may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
Section 2.14
      (g) If the Borrower makes any additional payment to any Lender pursuant to this in respect of any Taxes or Other Taxes, and such Lender determines that it has received (i) a refund of such Taxes or Other Taxes or (ii) a credit against or relief or remission for, or a reduction in the amount of, any tax or other governmental charge attributable solely to any deduction or credit for any Taxes or Other Taxes with respect to which it has received payments under this , such Lender shall, to the extent that it can do so without prejudice to the retention of such refund, credit, relief, remission or reduction, pay to the Borrower such amount as such Lender shall have determined to be attributable to the deduction or withholding of such Taxes or Other Taxes. If, within one year after the payment of any such amount to the Borrower, such Lender determines that it was not entitled to such refund, credit, relief, remission or reduction to the full extent of any payment made pursuant to the first sentence of this , the Borrower shall upon notice and demand of such Lender promptly repay the amount of such overpayment. Any determination made by such Lender pursuant to this shall in the absence of bad faith or manifest error be conclusive, and nothing in this shall be construed as requiring any Lender to conduct its business or to arrange or alter in any respect its tax or financial affairs (except as required by ) so that it is entitled to receive such a refund, credit or reduction or as allowing any Person to inspect any records, including tax returns, of any Lender.
Section 2.14
Section 2.14
Section 2.14(g)
Section 2.14(g)
Section 2.14(g)
Section 2.14(f)
      (h) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower or any Lender hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower and the Lenders contained in this shall survive the payment in full of principal and interest hereunder and the termination of this Agreement; that no Lender shall be entitled to demand any payment under this more than one year following the payment to or for the account of such Lender of all other amounts payable hereunder and under any Note held by such Lender and the termination of such Lender's Commitment; and , , that the foregoing proviso shall in no way limit the right of any Lender to demand or receive any payment under this to the extent that such payment relates to the retroactive application of any Taxes or Other Taxes if such demand is made within one year after the implementation of such Taxes or Other Taxes.
Section 2.14
provided
Section 2.14
provided
further
Section 2.14
 
      SECTION 2.15 If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of its Loan (other than pursuant to , , , (with respect to interest on a Base Rate Advance which, absent an event described in such Section, would otherwise be a Eurodollar Rate Advance), or ) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Loans obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Loans made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them, that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc.
Section 2.02(c)
2.07
2.11
2.12
2.14
8.04(b)
provided
Section 2.15
      SECTION 3.01 . The obligation of each Lender to make the relevant portion of its Loan available in connection with the first drawdown is, in addition to the conditions precedent set forth in , subject to the satisfaction, prior to or concurrently with the making of such drawdown, of each of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions Precedent to First Drawdown
Section 3.02
      (a) . The Administrative Agent shall have received on or before the day of the first drawdown the following, each dated the same date (or such other date as is satisfactory to the Administrative Agent), in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and (except for the Notes) with one copy for each Lender:
Documents and Other Agreements
     (i) A Note in favor of each Lender that has requested a Note to evidence its Advances;
     (ii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action with respect to this Agreement and the Notes;
     (iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying (A) the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder; (B) that attached thereto are true and correct copies of the Articles of Incorporation and
 
the By-laws of the Borrower, in each case as in effect on such date; and (C) that attached thereto are true and correct copies of all governmental and regulatory authorizations and approvals required for the due execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Notes;
     (iv) A certificate signed by either the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer or treasurer of the Borrower stating that (A) the representations and warranties contained in are correct on and as of the date of such certificate as though made on and as of such date and (B) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such certificate; and
Section 4.01
     (v) A favorable opinion of Ballard Spahr Andrews & Ingersoll LLP, counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of .
Exhibit D
      SECTION 3.02 . The obligation of each Lender to make the relevant portion of its Loan available in connection with each drawdown is subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of such drawdown the following statements shall be true, and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Drawdown and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such drawdown shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such drawdown such statements are true:
Conditions Precedent to Each Drawdown
     (A) The representations and warranties contained in are correct on and as of the date of such drawdown, before and after giving effect to such drawdown and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
Section 4.01
     (B) No event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such drawdown or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default (it being understood for clarification that without limiting the foregoing, it is a condition of this clause (B) that the Borrower shall be in compliance with , and upon giving effect to such drawdown).
Section 5.01(a)(iv)
Section 5.02(a)
Section 5.02(c)
      SECTION 4.01 . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
      (a) The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
      (b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and any Note are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not and will not contravene (i) the Borrower's Articles of Incorporation or By-laws, (ii) applicable law or (iii) any contractual or legal restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower or its properties.
 
      (c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or any Note, except an appropriate order or orders of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
      (d) This Agreement is, and each applicable Note when delivered hereunder will be, legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by equitable principles or bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
      (e) (i) The consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries at December 31, 2004 and the related consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows of the Borrower for the fiscal year then ended, certified by Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with GAAP; and (ii) since December 31, 2004 there has been no Material Adverse Change.
      (f) Except as disclosed in the Borrower's Annual, Quarterly or Current Reports, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to the Lenders prior to the date of execution and delivery of this Agreement, there is no pending or threatened action, investigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that may reasonably be anticipated to have a Material Adverse Effect. There is no pending or threatened action or proceeding against the Borrower or its Subsidiaries that purports to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note.
      (g) No proceeds of any Loan have been or will be used directly or indirectly in connection with the acquisition of in excess of 5% of any class of equity securities that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or any transaction subject to the requirements of Section 13 or 14 of the Exchange Act.
      (h) The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock. Not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is represented by margin stock.
      (i) The Borrower is not an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
      (j) During the twelve consecutive month period prior to the date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the date of any drawdown under this Agreement, no steps have been taken to terminate any Plan, and no contribution failure by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group has occurred with respect to any Plan. No condition exists or event or transaction has occurred with respect to any Plan (including any Multiemployer Plan) which might result in the incurrence by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group of any material liability, fine or penalty.
      SECTION 5.01 . The Borrower agrees that so long as any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder remains unpaid or the Commitments have not been irrevocably terminated, the Borrower will, and, in the case of , will cause each Principal Subsidiary to, unless the Majority Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
Affirmative Covenants
Section 5.01(a)
      (a) .
Keep Books; Corporate Existence; Maintenance of Properties; Compliance with Laws; Insurance; Taxes
     (i) keep proper books of record and account, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, consistently applied;
     (ii) subject to , preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence;
Section 5.02(b)
     (iii) maintain and preserve all of its properties (except such properties the failure of which to maintain or preserve would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect) which are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted;
     (iv) comply in all material respects with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders (including those of any governmental authority and including with respect to environmental matters) to the extent the failure to so comply, individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (v) maintain insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations, or self-insure, as the case may be, in each case in such amounts and covering such contingencies, casualties and risks as is customarily carried by or self-insured against by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower and the Principal Subsidiaries operate;
     (vi) at any reasonable time and from time to time, pursuant to prior notice delivered to the Borrower, permit any Lender, or any agent or representative of any thereof, to examine and, at such Lender's expense, make copies of, and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower or any
 
Principal Subsidiary with any of their respective officers; that any non-public information (which has been identified as such by the Borrower or the applicable Principal Subsidiary) obtained by any Lender or any of its agents or representatives pursuant to this shall be treated confidentially by such Person; , , that such Person may disclose such information to any other party to this Agreement, its examiners, affiliates, outside auditors, counsel or other professional advisors in connection with the Agreement or if otherwise required to do so by law or regulatory process; and
provided
clause (vi)
provided
further
     (vii) use the proceeds of the Loans to fund payments to the pension plans maintained by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
      (b) . Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
     (i) as soon as possible, and in any event within five Business Days after the occurrence of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of an authorized officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
     (ii) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the quarter ending March 31, 2005), a copy of the Borrower's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such quarter, together with a certificate of an authorized officer of the Borrower stating that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
     (iii) as soon as available and in any event within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such fiscal year, together with a certificate of an authorized officer of the Borrower stating that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if any such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
     (iv) concurrently with the delivery of the annual and quarterly reports referred to in and , a compliance certificate in substantially the form set forth in , duly completed and signed by the Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Borrower;
Sections 5.01(b)(ii)
5.01(b)(iii)
Exhibit E
     (v) except as otherwise provided in or above, promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that the Borrower sends to any of its security holders, and copies of all Reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q or 8-K, and registration
clause (ii)
(iii)
 
statements and prospectuses that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange (except to the extent that any such registration statement or prospectus relates solely to the issuance of securities pursuant to employee purchase, benefit or dividend reinvestment plans of the Borrower or such Subsidiary);
     (vi) promptly upon becoming aware of the institution of any steps by the Borrower or any other Person to terminate any Plan, or the failure to make a required contribution to any Plan if such failure is sufficient to give rise to a lien under section 302(f) of ERISA, or the taking of any action with respect to a Plan which could result in the requirement that the Borrower furnish a bond or other security to the PBGC or such Plan, or the occurrence of any event with respect to any Plan, which could result in the incurrence by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group of any material liability, fine or penalty, notice thereof and a statement as to the action the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
     (vii) promptly upon becoming aware thereof, notice of any change in the Moody's Rating or the S&P Rating for the Borrower; and
     (viii) such other information respecting the condition, operations, business or prospects, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as any Lender, through the Administrative Agent, may from time to time reasonably request.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, any delivery to the Lender of any document described in this pursuant to any other syndicated credit facility of the Borrower to which the Lender is a party shall constitute delivery of such document hereunder.
subsection (b)
      SECTION 5.02 . The Borrower agrees that so long as any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder remains unpaid or the Commitments have not been irrevocably terminated (except with respect to , which shall be applicable only as of the date hereof and at any time any Advance is outstanding hereunder), the Borrower will not, without the written consent of the Majority Lenders:
Negative Covenants
Section 5.02(a)
      (a) . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, or permit any Material Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, any Lien on its respective property, revenues or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired except (i) Liens imposed by law, such as carriers', warehousemen's and mechanics' Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business; (ii) Liens on the capital stock of or any other equity interest in any of its Subsidiaries (excluding the stock of ComEd, PECO, Genco and any holding company for any of the foregoing) or any such Subsidiary's assets to secure Nonrecourse Indebtedness; (iii) Liens upon or in any property acquired in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or to secure any obligation incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property; (iv) Liens existing on such property at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Lien created in contemplation of such acquisition unless permitted by the preceding ); (v) Liens on the property, revenues and/or assets of any Person that exist at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and the continuation of such Liens in connection with any refinancing or restructuring of the obligations secured by such
Limitation on Liens
clause (iii)
 
Liens; (vi) Liens arising under the ComEd Mortgage and "permitted liens" as defined in the ComEd Mortgage; (vii) Liens granted under the PECO Mortgage and "excepted encumbrances" as defined in the PECO Mortgage; (viii) Liens granted in connection with any financing arrangement for the purchase of nuclear fuel or the financing of pollution control facilities, limited to the fuel or facilities so purchased or acquired; (ix) Liens arising in connection with sales or transfers of, or financing secured by, accounts receivable or related contracts; that any such sale, transfer or financing shall be on arms' length terms; (x) Liens securing PECO's notes collateralized solely by mortgage bonds of PECO issued under the terms of the PECO Mortgage; (xi) Liens on assets of PECO, ComEd and Genco arising in connection with sale and leaseback transactions entered into by such Subsidiaries or a Subsidiary thereof, but only to the extent (I) the proceeds received from such sale shall immediately be applied to retire mortgage bonds of PECO or ComEd issued under the terms of the PECO Mortgage or the ComEd Mortgage, as the case may be, or (II) the aggregate purchase price of assets sold pursuant to such sale and leaseback transactions where such proceeds are not applied as provided in shall not exceed, in the aggregate for PECO, ComEd, Genco and their Subsidiaries, $1,000,000,000; (xii) Liens securing Permitted Obligations; (xiii) Liens granted by a Special Purpose Subsidiary to secure Transitional Funding Instruments of such Special Purpose Subsidiary; and (xiv) Liens, other than those described in through of this subsection granted by the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business securing Debt of the Borrower or such Material Subsidiary; that the aggregate amount of all Debt secured by Liens permitted by shall not exceed $100,000,000 in the aggregate at any one time outstanding.
provided
clause (I)
clauses (i)
(xiii)
provided
clause (xiv)
      (b) . Merge with or into or consolidate with or into, or sell, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person or permit any Principal Subsidiary to do so, that (i) any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to any other Principal Subsidiary, (ii) any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to the Borrower and (iii) the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to any other Person; that in each case, immediately before and after giving effect thereto, no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (A) in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which the Borrower is a party, either (x) the Borrower shall be the surviving corporation or (y) the surviving corporation shall be an Eligible Successor and shall have assumed all of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and the Notes pursuant to a written instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (B) subject to above, in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which a Principal Subsidiary is a party, a Principal Subsidiary shall be the surviving entity and (C) subject to above, in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which a Material Subsidiary is a party, a Material Subsidiary shall be the surviving entity.
Mergers and Consolidations; Disposition of Assets
except
provided
clause (A)
clause (A)
      (c) . Permit the Interest Coverage Ratio as of the last day of any fiscal quarter to be less than 2.65 to 1.0.
Interest Coverage Ratio
 
      (d) . Engage in, or permit any Subsidiary to engage in, any line of business which is material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, other than businesses engaged in by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date hereof and reasonable extensions thereof.
Continuation of Businesses
      (e) . Fail at any time to own, free and clear of all Liens, at least 95% of the issued and outstanding common shares or other common ownership interests of ComEd, 100% of the issued and outstanding common shares or other common ownership interests of PECO and 100% of the issued and outstanding membership interests of Genco (or, in any such case, 100% of a holding company which owns, free and clear of all Liens, at least 95% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of ComEd, 100% of the issued and outstanding common shares or other common ownership interests of PECO or 100% of the issued and outstanding membership interests of Genco).
Capital Structure
      (f) . Permit ComEd, Genco or PECO (or any holding company for any of the foregoing described in the parenthetical clause at the end of ) to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon the ability of such entity to declare or pay dividends to Exelon (or, if applicable, to its holding company), except for existing restrictions on (i) PECO relating to (A) the priority of payments on its subordinated debentures contained in the Indenture dated as of July 1, 1994 between PECO and Wachovia Bank, National Association (f/k/a First Union National Bank), as trustee, as amended and supplemented to the date hereof, or any other indenture that has terms substantially similar to such Indenture and that relates to the issuance of trust preferred securities, and (B) the priority payment of quarterly dividends on its preferred stock contained in its Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation as in effect on the date hereof; and (ii) ComEd relating to (A) the priority of payments on its subordinated debt securities contained in the Indenture dated as of September 1, 1995 between ComEd and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, as amended and supplemented to the date hereof, or any other indenture that has terms substantially similar to such Indenture and that relates to the issuance of trust preferred securities, and (B) the priority payment of dividends on any outstanding shares of its prior preferred stock and preference stock as set forth in its Restated Articles of Incorporation, as such Restated Articles of Incorporation are in effect on the date hereof.
Restrictive Agreements
Section 5.02(e)
      SECTION 6.01 . If any of the following events (each an "") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Event of Default
      (a) The Borrower shall fail to pay (i) any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable, or (ii) any interest on any Advance or any other amount payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
 
      (b) Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or by the Borrower (or any of its officers) pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made; or
      (c) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe (i) any term, covenant or agreement contained in , or , or (ii) any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if the failure to perform or observe such other term, covenant or agreement shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent (which notice shall be given by the Administrative Agent at the written request of any Lender); or
Section 5.02
Section 5.01(a)(vii)
Section 5.01(b)(i)
      (d) The Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal amount in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Nonrecourse Indebtedness, Transitional Funding Instruments and Debt hereunder) of the Borrower or such Principal Subsidiary (as the case may be) when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment), prior to the stated maturity thereof, other than any acceleration of any Debt secured by equipment leases or fuel leases of the Borrower or a Principal Subsidiary as a result of the occurrence of any event requiring a prepayment (whether or not characterized as such) thereunder, which prepayment will not result in a Material Adverse Change; or
      (e) The Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary (other than a Special Purpose Subsidiary) shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary (other than a Special Purpose Subsidiary) seeking to adjudicate it as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property,) shall occur; or the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary (other than a Special Purpose Subsidiary) shall take any action to authorize or to consent to any of the actions set forth above in this ; or
subsection (e)
 
      (f) One or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding $50,000,000 (excluding any such judgments or orders which are fully covered by insurance, subject to any customary deductible, and under which the applicable insurance carrier has acknowledged such full coverage in writing) shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; or
      (g) (i) Any Reportable Event that the Majority Lenders determine in good faith might constitute grounds for the termination of any Plan or for the appointment by the appropriate United States District Court of a trustee to administer a Plan shall have occurred and be continuing 30 days after written notice to such effect shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent; (ii) any Plan shall be terminated; (iii) a Trustee shall be appointed by an appropriate United States District Court to administer any Plan; (iv) the PBGC shall institute proceedings to terminate any Plan or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; or (v) the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group withdraws from any Multiemployer Plan; that on the date of any event described in through above, the Unfunded Liabilities of the applicable Plan exceed $20,000,000; or
provided
clauses (i)
(v)
      (h) The Borrower (or a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower) shall fail to own, free and clear of all Liens, (i) at least 95% of the issued and outstanding common shares or other common ownership interests of ComEd, (ii) 100% of the issued and outstanding common shares or other common interests of PECO or (iii) 100% of the membership interests of Genco;
then, and in any such event, the Administrative Agent shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, (i) declare the respective Commitments of the Lenders to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and/or (ii) declare the outstanding principal amount of the Loans, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the outstanding principal amount of the Loans, all such interest and all such other amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; that in the event of an Event of Default under , (A) the obligation of each Lender to make any Loan shall automatically be terminated and (B) the outstanding principal amount of the Loans, all such interest and all such other amounts shall automatically and immediately become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
Section 6.01(e)
      SECTION 7.01 . Each Lender hereby appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as administrative agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not
Authorization and Action
 
expressly provided for by this Agreement (including enforcement or collection of the Notes), the Administrative Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Majority Lenders, and such instructions shall be binding upon all Lenders and all holders of Notes; that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes the Administrative Agent to personal liability or which is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law. The Administrative Agent agrees to give to each Lender prompt notice of each notice given to it by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
provided
      SECTION 7.02 Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement, except for its or their respective own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing: (i) the Administrative Agent may treat the payee of any Note as the holder thereof until the Administrative Agent receives and accepts an Assignment and Acceptance entered into by the Lender which is the payee of such Note, as assignor, and an Eligible Assignee, as assignee, as provided in ; (ii) the Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts; (iii) the Administrative Agent makes no warranty or representation to any Lender and shall not be responsible to any Lender for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in connection with this Agreement; (iv) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of the Borrower or to inspect the property (including the books and records) of the Borrower; (v) the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; and (vi) the Administrative Agent shall not incur any liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by facsimile, telegram, cable or telex) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties.
Agents' Reliance, Etc.
Section 8.07
      SECTION 7.03 . With respect to its Commitment, Advances and Notes, CNAI shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent; and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include CNAI in its individual capacity. CNAI and its affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee under indentures of, and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower, any Subsidiary and any Person who may do business with or own securities of the Borrower or any such Subsidiary, all as if it were not the Administrative Agent and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Agents and Affiliates
      SECTION 7.04 . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on the financial statements referred to in and such other documents and
Lender Credit Decision
Section 4.01(e)
 
information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement.
      SECTION 7.05 . The Lenders agree to indemnify the Administrative Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to their respective Pro Rata Shares, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Administrative Agent under this Agreement, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent promptly upon demand for its Pro Rata Share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that such expenses are reimbursable by the Borrower but for which the Administrative Agent is not reimbursed by the Borrower.
Indemnification
provided
      SECTION 7.06 . The Administrative Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Majority Lenders. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Majority Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Administrative Agent. If no successor Administrative Agent shall have been so appointed by the Majority Lenders, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Majority Lenders' removal of the retiring Administrative Agent, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be a commercial bank described in clause (i) or (ii) of the definition of "Eligible Assignee" and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $150,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Article VII shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then no successor Administrative Agent shall be appointed under this without the prior written consent of the Borrower, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Successor Administrative Agent
Section 7.06
 
      SECTION 7.07 . The titles of various "Agents" hereunder (other than "Administrative Agent") and the "Lead Arranger" are purely honorific, and the Persons with such titles shall have no duties or responsibilities in such capacity.
Other Agents and Lead Arranger
      SECTION 8.01 No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Majority Lenders and, in the case of an amendment, the Borrower, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders (other than any Lender that is the Borrower or an Affiliate of the Borrower), do any of the following: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in or , (b) increase the Commitments of the Lenders or subject the Lenders to any additional obligations, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Notes, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, or (f) amend this ; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent, in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any Note.
Amendments, Etc.
provided
Section 3.01
3.02
Section 8.01
provided
further
      SECTION 8.02 All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including facsimile, telegraphic, telex or cable communication) and mailed, sent by facsimile, telegraphed, telexed, cabled or delivered, if to the Borrower, at its address at 10 South Dearborn Street, 37 floor, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention: Thomas R. Miller, Facsimile: (312) 394-5440; if to any Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified in its Administrative Questionnaire or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender; and if to the Administrative Agent, at its address at Two Penns Way, Suite 200, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Attention: Christina Quezon, Facsimile: (212) 994-0961 or, as to each party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties. All such notices and communications shall, when mailed, sent by facsimile, telegraphed, telexed or cabled, be effective when deposited in the mails, sent by facsimile (receipt confirmed), delivered to the telegraph company, confirmed by telex answerback or delivered to the cable company, respectively, except that notices and communications to the Administrative Agent pursuant to or shall not be effective until received by the Administrative Agent.
Notices, Etc.
th
Article II
VII
      SECTION 8.03 . No failure on the part of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
 
      SECTION 8.04 . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, syndication, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered by the Borrower hereunder, including the reasonable fees, internal charges and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel (including in-house counsel) for the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arranger as to their respective rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Borrower further agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses, if any (including counsel fees and expenses of outside counsel and of internal counsel), incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the collection and enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered by the Borrower hereunder, including reasonable counsel fees and expenses in connection with the enforcement of rights under this .
Costs and Expenses; Indemnification
Section 8.04(a)
      (a) If any payment of principal of, or any conversion of, any Eurodollar Rate Advance, is made other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or conversion pursuant to or or acceleration of the maturity of the Loans pursuant to or for any other reason, the Borrower shall, upon demand by any Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender any amount required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses which it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or conversion, including any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
Section 2.09
2.12
Section 6.01
      (b) The Borrower hereby agrees to indemnify and hold each Lender, the Administrative Agent and each of their respective Affiliates, officers, directors and employees (each, an "") harmless from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities, costs or expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses, whether or not such Indemnified Person is named as a party to any proceeding or is otherwise subjected to judicial or legal process arising from any such proceeding) that any of them may pay or incur arising out of or relating to this Agreement, the Notes or the transactions contemplated hereby, or the use by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the proceeds of any Advance, that the Borrower shall not be liable for any portion of such claims, damages, losses, liabilities, costs or expenses resulting from such Indemnified Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Borrower's obligations under this shall survive the repayment of all amounts owing by the Borrower to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under this Agreement and the Notes and the termination of the Commitments. If and to the extent that the obligations of the Borrower under this are unenforceable for any reason, the Borrower agrees to make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction thereof which is permissible under applicable law.
Indemnified Person
provided
Section 8.04(c)
Section 8.04(c)
      SECTION 8.05 . Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the Loans due and payable pursuant to the provisions of , each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and
Right of Set-off
Section 6.01
Section 6.01
 
from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and any Note held by such Lender, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such Note and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application made by such Lender, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender under this are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) that such Lender may have.
provided
Section 8.05
      SECTION 8.06 . This Agreement shall become effective when counterparts hereof shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have been notified by each Lender that such Lender has executed a counterpart hereof and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, that (except as permitted by ), the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all Lenders.
Binding Effect
provided
Section 5.02(b)(iii)
      SECTION 8.07 . (a) Each Lender may, with the prior written consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and if demanded by the Borrower pursuant to hereof shall to the extent required by such , assign to one or more banks or other entities all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment, the Loan owing to it and any Note held by it); that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (ii) the aggregate amount of the Loan and remaining Commitment (if any) of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 or, if less, the entire amount of such Lender's Loan and remaining Commitment, and shall be an integral multiple of $1,000,000 or such Lender's entire Loan and remaining Commitment, (iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee, (iv) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with any Note subject to such assignment and a processing and recordation fee of $4,000 (which shall be payable by one or more of the parties to the Assignment and Acceptance, and not by the Borrower, and shall not be payable if the assignee is a Federal Reserve Bank), and (v) the consent of the Borrower shall not be required after the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default. Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under this Agreement and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an
Assignments and Participations
subsection (g)
subsection (g)
provided
 
assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto (although an assigning Lender shall continue to be entitled to indemnification pursuant to ). Notwithstanding anything contained in this to the contrary, (A) the consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall not be required with respect to any assignment by any Lender to an Affiliate of such Lender or to another Lender and (B) any Lender may at any time, without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, and without any requirement to have an Assignment and Acceptance executed, assign all or any part of its rights under this Agreement and any Note to a Federal Reserve Bank, provided that no such assignment shall release the transferor Lender from any of its obligations hereunder.
Section 8.04(c)
Section 8.07(a)
      (b) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Lender assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Section 4.01(e)
      (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loan owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Section 8.02
Register
      (d) Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, together with any Note subject to such assignment, the Administrative Agent shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance
 
has been completed and is in substantially the form of , (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower.
Exhibit C
      (e) Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (each, a "") in or to all or a portion of its rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment, its Loan and any Note held by it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement (including its Commitment (if any)) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Note for all purposes of this Agreement, (iv) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and (v) such Lender shall retain the sole right to approve, without the consent of any Participant, any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Note held by such Lender, other than any such amendment, modification or waiver with respect to any Advance or Commitment in which such Participant has an interest that forgives principal, interest or fees or reduces the interest rate or fees payable with respect to any such Advance or Commitment, postpones any date fixed for any regularly scheduled payment of principal of, or interest or fees on, any such Advance or Commitment, releases any guarantor of any such Advance or releases any substantial portion of collateral, if any, securing any such Advance.
Participant
provided
      (f) Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this , disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Borrower furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower; that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to the Borrower received by it from such Lender (subject to customary exceptions regarding regulatory requirements, compliance with legal process and other requirements of law).
Section 8.07
provided
      (g) If (i) any Lender shall make demand for payment under , or or (ii) shall deliver any notice to the Administrative Agent pursuant to resulting in the suspension of certain obligations of the Lenders with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances, then (in the case of clause (i)) within 60 days after such demand (if, but only if, such payment demanded under , or has been made by the Borrower), or (in the case of ) within 60 days after such notice (if such suspension is still in effect), or as the case may be, the Borrower may demand that such Lender assign in accordance with this to one or more Eligible Assignees designated by the Borrower and reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent all (but not less than all) of such Lender's Commitment (if any) and the Loan owing to it within the next succeeding 30 days. If any such Eligible Assignee designated by the Borrower shall fail to consummate such assignment on terms acceptable to such Lender, or if the Borrower shall fail to designate any such Eligible Assignee for all of such Lender's Commitment or Loan, then such Lender may (but shall not be required to) assign such Commitment and Loan to any other Eligible Assignee in accordance with this during such period.
Section 2.11(a)
2.11(b)
2.14
Section 2.12
Section 2.11(a)
2.11(b)
2.14
clause (ii)
Section 8.07
Section 8.07
 
      (h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (an ""), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide to the Borrower all or any part of any Advance that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement; provided that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to make any Advance, (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Advance, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Advance pursuant to the terms hereof. The making of an Advance by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Advance were made by such Granting Lender. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement (all liability for which shall remain with the Granting Lender). In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior indebtedness of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Advances to the Granting Lender or to any financial institutions (consented to by the Borrower and Administrative Agent, neither of which consents shall be unreasonably withheld or delayed) providing liquidity and/or credit support to or for the account of such SPC to support the funding or maintenance of Advances and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Advances to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC. This may not be amended in any manner which adversely affects a Granting Lender or an SPC without the written consent of such Granting Lender or SPC.
Granting Lender
SPC
Section 8.07
Section 8.07(h)
      SECTION 8.08 . THIS AGREEMENT AND EACH NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Governing Law
      SECTION 8.09 . (a) THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA AND ANY UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SITTING IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY NOTE AND THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN ANY SUCH COURT AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AS TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT OR THAT SUCH COURT IS AN INCONVENIENT FORUM. NOTHING HEREIN SHALL LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER TO BRING PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE BORROWER IN THE COURTS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.
Consent to Jurisdiction
 
      (b) EXCEPT AS PROHIBITED BY LAW, EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO CLAIM OR RECOVER IN ANY LITIGATION ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY NOTE ANY SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES OTHER THAN, OR IN ADDITION TO, ACTUAL DAMAGES.
      SECTION 8.10 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding among the parties hereto and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.
Execution in Counterparts; Integration
      SECTION 8.11 . The following notification is provided to the Borrower pursuant to Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act of 2001, 31 U.S.C. Section 5318:
USA PATRIOT ACT NOTIFICATION
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT PROCEDURES FOR OPENING A NEW ACCOUNT. To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or entity that opens an account, including any deposit account, treasury management account, loan, other extension of credit, or other financial services product. What this means for the Borrower: When the Borrower opens an account, if the Borrower is an individual, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders will ask for the Borrower's name, residential address, tax identification number, date of birth, and other information that will allow the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to identify the Borrower, and, if the Borrower is not an individual, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders will ask for the Borrower's name, tax identification number, business address, and other information that will allow the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to identify the Borrower. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders may also ask, if the Borrower is an individual, to see the Borrower's driver's license or other identifying documents, and, if the Borrower is not an individual, to see the Borrower's legal organizational documents or other identifying documents.
 
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
      The "Applicable Margin" and the "Commitment Fee Rate" for any day are the respective percentages set forth below in the applicable column opposite the Status that exists on such day:
      The Applicable Margin and the Commitment Fee Rate shall be determined in accordance with the table above based on the Status of the Borrower. The Status in effect on any date for the purposes of this Pricing Schedule is based on the Moody's Rating and S&P Rating in effect at the close of business on such date.
      For the purposes of the foregoing (but subject to the final paragraph of this Pricing Schedule):
      "" exists at any date if, on such date, the Moody's Rating is A2 or better or the S&P Rating is A or better.
Level I Status
      "" exists at any date if, on such date, (i) Level I Status does not exist and (ii) the Moody's Rating is A3 or better or the S&P Rating is A- or better.
Level II Status
      "" exists at any date if, on such date, (i) neither Level I Status nor Level II Status exists and (ii) the Moody's Rating is Baa1 or better or the S&P Rating is BBB+ or better.
Level III Status
      "" exists at any date if, on such date, (i) none of Level I Status, Level II Status or Level III Status exists and (ii) the Moody's Rating is Baa2 or better or the S&P Rating is BBB or better.
Level IV Status
      "" exists at any date if, on such date, (i) none of Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status or Level IV status exists and (ii) the Moody's Rating is Baa3 or better or the S&P Rating is BBB- or better.
Level V Status
      "" exists at any date if, on such date, none of Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status, Level IV Status or Level V Status exists.
Level VI Status
 
      "" means Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status, Level IV Status, Level V Status or Level VI Status.
Status
      If the S&P Rating and the Moody's Rating create a split-rated situation and the ratings differential is one level, the higher rating will apply. If the differential is two levels or more, the intermediate rating at the midpoint will apply. If there is no midpoint, the higher of the two intermediate ratings will apply. If there is no Moody's Rating or no S&P Rating, Level VI Status shall exist.
 
 
Dated: [     ], 2005
      FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (the "Borrower"), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of (the "Lender") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office (such term and other capitalized terms herein being used as defined in the Term Loan Agreement referred to below) on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of the Loan made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Term Loan Agreement.
     
      The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan at the rate(s) and at the time(s) specified in the Term Loan Agreement.
      Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to Citicorp North America, Inc., as Administrative Agent, at Two Penns Way, Suite 200, New Castle, Delaware 19720 in same day funds.
      This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Term Loan Agreement dated as of March 7, 2005 among Exelon Corporation, the Lenders named therein and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Term Loan Agreement"). The Term Loan Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of a Loan by the Lender to the Borrower in not more than three drawdowns in an aggregate amount not to exceed the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from such Loan being evidenced by this Promissory Note, and (ii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
      The Borrower hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind. No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any rights hereunder on the part of the holder hereof shall operate as a waiver of such rights.
 
      THIS PROMISSORY NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
 
Citicorp North America, Inc., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders which are parties to the Term Loan Agreement referred to below Two Penns Way Suite 200 New Castle, Delaware 19720
[Date]
Attention: [_______________]
Ladies and Gentlemen:
      The undersigned, Exelon Corporation, refers to the Term Loan Agreement dated as of March 7, 2005 among Exelon Corporation, the Lenders named therein and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Term Loan Agreement"), and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Term Loan Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a drawdown under the Term Loan Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such drawdown (the "Proposed Drawdown") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Term Loan Agreement:
     (i) The Business Day of the Proposed Drawdown is ___, 20___.
     (ii) The Type of Advances to be made in connection with the Proposed Drawdown is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurodollar Rate Advances].
     (iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Drawdown is $.
     
     (iv) The Interest Period for each Advance made as part of the Proposed Drawdown is [       month[s]].
      The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Drawdown:
     (A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Drawdown and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
     (B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Drawdown or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes an Event of Default or would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
 
 
      This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [(the "") and (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Term Loan Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
]
Assignor
[
Insert name of Assignee
]
Assignee
Loan Agreement
      For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Loan Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Agent as contemplated below, the interest in and to all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Loan Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto that represents the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of the Assignor's outstanding rights and obligations under the respective facilities identified below (including, to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims (including without limitation contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity), suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor against any Person whether known or unknown arising under or in connection with the Loan Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby) (the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
6. Assigned Interest:
7. Trade Date: ______ Effective Date: ___, 20___TO BE INSERTED BY AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER BY THE AGENT.]
2
Consented to and Accepted: CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC., as Agent
[
]
3
       Amount to be adjusted by the counterparties to take into account any payments or prepayments made between the Trade Date and the Effective Date.
*
 
Consented to:
[
]
4
EXELON CORPORATION
 
      1. .
Representations and Warranties
      1.1 . The Assignor represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. Neither the Assignor nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents or attorneys shall be responsible for (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Loan Agreement or any Note, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency, perfection, priority, collectibility, or value of the Loan Agreement or any Note or any collateral therefor, (iii) the financial condition of the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the Loan Agreement or any Note, (iv) the performance or observance by the Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement or any Note, (v) inspecting any of the property, books or records of the Company, or any guarantor, or (vi) any mistake, error of judgment, or action taken or omitted to be taken in connection with the Loans, the Loan Agreement or any Note.
Assignor
      1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Loan Agreement, (ii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Loan Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iii) agrees that its payment instructions and notice instructions are as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Assumption, (iv) confirms that none of the funds, monies, assets or other consideration being used to make the purchase and assumption hereunder are "plan assets" as defined under ERISA and that its rights, benefits and interests in and under the Loan Agreement and any Note will not be "plan assets" under ERISA, (v) agrees to indemnify and hold the Assignor harmless against all losses, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees) and liabilities incurred by the Assignor in connection with or arising in any manner from the Assignee's non-performance of the obligations assumed under this Assignment and Assumption, (vi) it has received a copy of the Loan Agreement, together with copies of financial statements and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Agent or any other Lender, and (vii) attached as Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by the Assignee with respect to its tax status pursuant to the terms of the Loan Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not
Assignee
 
taking action under the Loan Agreement or any Note, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
      2. . The Assignee shall pay the Assignor, on the Effective Date, the amount agreed to by the Assignor and the Assignee. From and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
      3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
General Provisions
 
 
 
March 7, 2005
To the Administrative Agent and the Lenders which are parties to the Term Loan Agreement dated as of March 7, 2005 among Exelon Corporation, the various financial institutions named therein, as Lenders and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Administrative Agent
Re:
$2,000,000,000 Term Loan Agreement
Ladies and Gentlemen:
               This opinion letter is furnished to you pursuant to Section 3.01(v) of the $2,000,000,000 Term Loan Agreement dated as of March 7, 2005 (the "Agreement") among Exelon Corporation (the "Borrower"), the various financial institutions named therein and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Administrative Agent. Unless otherwise specified, terms defined in the Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
               We have acted as counsel for the Borrower in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Agreement. In that capacity, we have examined the following:
          (i) The Agreement and the Notes dated the date hereof executed by the Borrower (the "Notes");
          (ii) The documents furnished by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Agreement;
          (iii) The Articles of Incorporation of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "Charter");
          (iv) The by-laws of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "By-laws"); and
          (v) A certificate from the Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania dated [ ], 2005 certifying as to the subsistence of the Borrower in Pennsylvania.
               We have also examined, and relied upon the accuracy of factual matters contained in, originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such other corporate or organizational records of the Borrower, certificates or comparable documents of public officials and of officers of the Borrower, and such other agreements, instruments and documents and have made such examinations of law as we have deemed necessary in connection with the opinions set forth below.
 
               We have assumed the legal capacity and competence of natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to original documents of documents submitted to us as certified, conformed, photostatic, electronic or facsimile copies. We have made no independent factual investigation other than as described above, and as to other factual matters, we have relied exclusively on the facts stated in the representations and warranties contained in the Agreement and the Exhibits and Schedules to the Agreement (other than representations and warranties constituting conclusions of law on matters on which we opine). We have not examined any records of any court, administrative tribunal or other similar entity in connection with our opinion.
               When an opinion or confirmation is given to our knowledge or with reference to matters of which we are aware or which are known to us, or with another similar qualification, the relevant knowledge or awareness is limited to the actual contemporaneous knowledge or awareness of facts, without investigation, by the lawyer who is the current primary contact for the Borrower and the individual lawyers in this firm who have participated in the specific transaction to which this opinion letter relates.
               We have also assumed, without verification, (i) that the parties to the Agreement and the other agreements, instruments and documents executed in connection therewith, other than the Borrower, have the power (including, without limitation, corporate power where applicable) and authority to enter into and perform the Agreement and such other agreements, instruments and documents, (ii) the due authorization, execution and delivery by such parties other than the Borrower of the Agreement and such other agreements, instruments and documents, (iii) that the Agreement and such other agreements, instruments and documents constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of each such party other than the Borrower, enforceable against each such other party in accordance with their respective terms and (iv) the amount of the Borrower's borrowings outstanding under the Agreement and under the other credit facilities previously entered into by the Borrower will not exceed the amount the Borrower is authorized to borrow under the authorization referred to in Paragraph 3 below.
               Based upon the foregoing and subject to the assumptions, exceptions, limitations and qualifications set forth herein, we are of the opinion that:
          1. The Borrower is a corporation duly incorporated and presently subsisting under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
          2. The execution and delivery, and the performance of the obligations thereunder, by the Borrower of the Agreement and the Notes (a) are within the Borrower's corporate powers, (b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of the Borrower, (c) do not (i) violate the Charter or the By-laws, (ii) violate any present statute, rule or regulation promulgated by the United States or the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or (iii) to our knowledge, breach or result in a default under any agreement or instrument to which the Borrower is a party or by which the Borrower is bound and (d) to our knowledge, do not result in the creation or imposition
 
of any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance upon or with respect to any of the properties of the Borrower pursuant to such agreements or instruments referred to in clause (c)(iii), except security interests and liens created under the Agreement.
          3. No consent or approval of, or notice to or filing with, any federal or state regulatory authority of the United States or the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is required by the Borrower in connection with the execution or delivery by the Borrower of the Agreement or the Notes, except for the authorization of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, which authorization has been received and is in full force and effect.
          4. The Agreement and the Notes have been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
          5. The Borrower is not an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
               We do not have knowledge, after inquiry of each lawyer in this firm who is the current primary contact for the Borrower or who has devoted substantive attention to matters on behalf of the Borrower during the preceding twelve months and who is still currently employed by or a member of this firm, except as disclosed in the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, no litigation or governmental proceeding is pending or threatened in writing against the Borrower (i) with respect to the Agreement or the Notes, or (ii) which is likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition, business, properties or prospects of the Borrower and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.
               The foregoing opinions are subject to the following exceptions, limitations and qualifications:
          (a) Our opinions are subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer marshalling or similar laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally; general principles of equity, including without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); and limitations on enforceability of rights to indemnification or contribution by federal or state securities laws or regulations or by public policy.
          (b) We draw your attention to the provisions of Section 911(b) of the Pennsylvania Crimes Code (the "Crimes Code"), 18 Pa. C.S. 911(b), in connection with the fact that the Loans bear floating rates of interest. Section 911(b) of the Crimes Codes makes it unlawful to use or invest income derived from a pattern of "racketeering activity" in the establishment or operation of any enterprise. "Racketeering activity," as defined in the Crimes Code, includes the collection of money or other property in full or partial satisfaction of a debt which arose as the result of the lending of money or other property at a rate of interest exceeding 25% per annum where not otherwise authorized by law.
 
          (c) We express no opinion as to the application or requirements of federal or state securities (except with respect to the opinion in paragraph 5), patent, trademark, copyright, antitrust and unfair competition, pension or employee benefit, labor, environmental health and safety or tax laws in respect of the transactions contemplated by or referred to in the Agreement.
          (d) We express no opinion as to the validity or enforceability of any provision of the Agreement or the Notes which (i) permits the Lenders to increase the rate of interest or to collect a late charge in the event of delinquency or default to the extent deemed to be penalties or forfeitures; (ii) purports to be a waiver by the Borrower of any right or benefit except to the extent permitted by applicable law; (iii) purports to require that waivers must be in writing to the extent that an oral agreement or implied agreement by trade practice or course of conduct modifying provisions of the Agreement or the Notes has been made; (iv) purports to exculpate any party from its own negligent acts; or (v) purports to authorize any Participant to set off and apply any deposits at any time held, and any other indebtedness at any time owing, by such Participant to or for the account of the Borrower.
          We express no opinion as to the law of any jurisdiction other than the law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the federal law of the United States.
          A copy of this opinion may be delivered by you to each financial institution that may become a Lender under the Agreement, and such persons may rely on this opinion as if it were addressed to them and had been delivered to them on the date hereof. This opinion may be relied on by you and such persons to whom you may deliver copies as provided in the preceding sentence only in connection with the consummation of the transactions described herein and may not be used or relied upon by you or any other person for any other purpose, without in each instance our prior written consent.
          This opinion is limited to the matters expressly stated herein. No implied opinion may be inferred to extend this opinion beyond the matters expressly stated herein. We do not undertake to advise you or anyone else of any changes in the opinions expressed herein resulting from changes in law, changes in facts or any other matters that hereafter might occur or be brought to our attention.
Very truly yours,
BALLARD SPAHR ANDREWS & INGERSOLL LLP
 
               Pursuant to the Term Loan Agreement dated as of March 7, 2005 among Exelon Corporation (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Loan Agreement"), the undersigned, being the ___of the Borrower, hereby certifies on behalf of the Borrower as follows:
               1. Delivered herewith are the financial statements prepared pursuant to Section 5.01(b)[(ii)/(iii)] of the Loan Agreement for the fiscal ___ended ___, 20___. All such financial statements comply with the applicable requirements of the Loan Agreement.
               2. Schedule I hereto sets forth in reasonable detail the information and calculations necessary to establish the Borrower's compliance with the provisions of Section 5.02(c) of the Loan Agreement as of the end of the fiscal period referred to in paragraph 1 above.
               3. (Check one and only one:)
               ___No Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
               ___An Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and the document(s) attached hereto as Schedule II specify in detail the nature and period of existence of such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default as well as any and all actions with respect thereto taken or contemplated to be taken by the Borrower.
               4. The undersigned has personally reviewed the Loan Agreement, and this certificate was based on an examination made by or under the supervision of the undersigned sufficient to assure that this certificate is accurate.
               5. Capitalized terms used in this certificate and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given in the Loan Agreement.


