FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20061107111548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Section 1  Registrants Business and Operations.
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 6, 2006, a subsidiary of Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) entered into an agreement to sell its 49.5% ownership interests in Termoelctrica del Golfo (TEG) and Termoelctrica Peoles (TEP) to a subsidiary of AES Corporation (AES) for $95 million in cash and working capital adjustments. TEG and TEP are each approximately 230 MW petcoke-fired generating facilities located in Tamun, Mexico. The sale of TEG and TEP to AES is subject to Mexican antitrust commission approval. The parties anticipate closing in the first quarter of 2007.
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Generation (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelons 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon-Note 20 and Generation-Note 17; (2) Exelons Third Quarter 2006 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
   
November 7, 2006
 


