FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20060601081158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On June 1, 2006, at approximately 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time, John W. Rowe, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Exelon Corporation (Exelon) will deliver a presentation at the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Strategic Decisions Conference in New York, New York, on the subject of climate change, global warming and proposals to slow, stop and reverse emissions growth. The presentation will be available by webcast. Webcast information is available on the Exelon website at www.exeloncorp.com at the Investor Relations tab. During his presentation, Mr. Rowe intends to make the following additional remarks regarding the proposed merger of Exelon and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG):
More than any other company, Exelon is a product of industry restructuring
And with that shift has come a dramatic improvement in financial performance
Our success is attributable to more than just the structural separation  also improved wholesale prices, and dramatically improved operating performance
 
Of course, much has changed in the last 18 months 
But we continue to work diligently to complete the transaction
Assuming we can reach reasonable settlements with our regulators, we continue to believe that the merger can be an economically attractive transaction, one that will create real value for Exelon shareholders
But the ultimate decision lies with our Board, who will make an independent assessment once all the facts are known, and the analysis has been completed
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd), PECO Energy Company (PECO) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a Registrant include those risks associated with the proposed merger of Exelon and PSEG that are described in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that Exelon filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) on June 3, 2005 (Registration No. 333-122704, as well as the items discussed in (a) the Registrants' 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) the Registrants' 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ExelonNote 20, ComEdNote 17, PECONote 15 and GenerationNote 17, and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
June 1, 2006


