FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20061003170532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
  
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 8Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 14, 2006, the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) voted unanimously to allow the results of the States first auction to procure electric power for fixed-price customers of Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) and other Illinois utilities to go into effect. New electric rates will apply to electricity usage beginning on January 2, 2007. The new rates will be the first general rate increase since 1995. ComEd reduced its rates by 15% for residential customers in 1998, with an additional 5% reduction during 2001.
On October 2, 2006, the Speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives (the Speaker) wrote to the Governor of Illinois asking that he convene a special session of the Illinois General Assembly within seven days to consider legislation identical in content to House Bill 5766, which would keep the current electric rate freeze in effect until 2010 (Rate Freeze Legislation). The Speaker asserted that the issue should be addressed before the November veto session. In response to the Speakers letter, on October 2, 2006 the Governor of Illinois wrote to the Speaker, the President of the Illinois Senate, and the Minority Leaders of both houses to inform them that he intended to work with them to secure sufficient support to pass Rate Freeze Legislation and that he would immediately call a special session once they had enough votes to pass Rate Freeze Legislation. He also stated that he would call a special session if they were unable to reach consensus on Rate Freeze Legislation in the near future.
On October 2, 2006, Frank M. Clark, ComEds Chairman and CEO, issued a statement on the call for a special session on rate freeze extension legislation. A copy of the statement is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by ComEd and Exelon Corporation (Exelon) (together, the Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been filed by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
Forward-Looking Statements
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this Report are forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by a Registrant include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (a) Exelons 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 1A Risk Factors, (b) Exelons 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-KITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: ComEdNote 17 and ExelonNote 20 and (c) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by ComEd and Exelon. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Report. Neither ComEd nor Exelon undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Exhibit No. Description
 
99  ComEd Press Release
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. 
 
 
   
                                                                    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
COMMONWEALTH EDISON COMPANY
 
                                                                      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
/s/ Robert K. McDonald           
                                                                     Robert K. McDonald
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                                                                                                                                                     
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
                                                                     and Treasurer
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
                                                                    EXELON CORPORATION
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
                                  &# 160;                                   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
/s/ John F. Young               
                                                                     John F. Young
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                                                                     Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets,
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                                                                     and Chief Financial Officer Exelon Corporation
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
October 3, 2006
 
 
Exhibit No. Description
 
            99  ComEd Press Release
 
 

         
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
From:         ComEd
                 Media Relations                                                               October 2, 2006
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                
Chicago, IL 60680-5379
 
Contact:     312-394-3500
 
 
With the projected 2007 rate increase, ComEd rates will be lower than they were in 1995 and lower than almost every other comparable metropolitan center in the country.
An extension of the rate freeze, on the other hand, would be very bad for Illinois. Such a measure would have severely negative consequences for our state, our economy and all consumers. Forcing ComEd into a position where it buys electricity for more than it is allowed to collect from customers would immediately threaten the companys financial stability and put us at risk of bankruptcy.
Illinois must have a strong and stable electric system. It is in everyones interest to make sure ComEd has the resources it needs to continue to maintain its system to ensure reliable service and meet the growing demands of our state.
ComEd remains committed to helping our customers adjust to rate increases. Our CARE (Customers Affordable Reliable Energy) initiative has a number of different resources to help our customers manage their electricity usage in these times of rising energy costs. We also have a proposal before the Illinois Commerce Commission to allow customers to elect to have the 2007 rate increase phased-in over three years.
 
 
Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) is a unit of Chicago-based Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC), one of the nations largest electric utilities with approximately 5.2 million customers and more than $15 billion in annual revenues. ComEd provides service to approximately 3.7 million customers across Northern Illinois, or 70 percent of the states population.


