FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20061106085121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 5-8, 2006, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) will participate in the Edison Electric Institute Conference in Las Vegas, Nevada. Attached as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the slides and handouts to be used at the conference. The slides include preliminary adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings guidance for 2007 for Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) and PECO Energy Company (PECO).
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, ComEd, PECO and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon Corporation's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon-Note 20, ComEd-Note 17, PECO-Note 15 and Generation-Note 17; (2) Exelon Corporation's Third Quarter 2006 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
November 6, 2006

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
To the Financial Community,
The Exelon Fact Book is intended to provide historical financial and operating information to assist in the analysis of Exelon and its operating companies. Please refer to the SEC filings, including the annual Form 10-K and quarterly Form 10-Q, of Exelon and its subsidiaries for more comprehensive financial statements and information.
For more information about Exelon and to send e-mail inquiries, visit our website at www.exeloncorp.com.
Information in this Fact Book is current as of October 31, 2006.
This publication includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon Corporation's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Exelon-Note 20, ComEd-Note 17, PECO-Note 15 and Generation-Note 17; (2) Exelon Corporation's Third Quarter 2006 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by Exelon Corporation, Commonwealth Edison Company, PECO Energy Company and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Companies). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this publication. None of the Companies undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this publication.
 
Exelon at a Glance
Company Profile
Exelon Corporation, headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S. with approximately 5.3 million customers and more than $15 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. our vision
Exelon will be the best electric and gas company in the United States. Working together, we will set the standard of excellence in the eyes of our customers, employees, investors and the communities we serve.
our goals
> Operate at world-class levels of safety, reliability, customer service and efficiency.
> Achieve competitive advantage through safe nuclear operations and environmental leadership.
> Create a rewarding and challenging workplace.
> Deliver superior value to customers and investors through disciplined financial management.
our values
safety Safety is always our number one priority, for our employees, for our customers and for our communities.
integrity We hold ourselves to the highest ethical standards in what we do and what we say.
customers Our customers depend on us to keep the lights on and the gas flowing, and we commit to meeting their expectations.
diversity We strive for diversity of people, experiences and viewpoints.
respect We promote trust and teamwork by communicating openly and honestly with each other and our communities.
accountability We live up to our commitments and take responsibility for our actions and results.
continuous improvement We set stretch goals, work together to achieve them, measure our accomplishments and learn from the accomplishments of others.
2
 
Company Overview
3
 
State Utility Regulation
Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC)
The ICC has five full-time members, each appointed by the Governor (Rod Blagojevich, Democrat, elected in November 2002; term ends in January 2007) and confirmed by the Illinois State Senate. Commissioner Wright was appointed by former Governor George Ryan. The Commissioners serve for five-year, staggered terms. Under Illinois law, no more than three Commissioners may belong to the same political party. The Chairman is designated by the Governor.
ComEd Electric Distribution Rate Case
 
Term Structures for Illinois Fixed Price Auctions
(for customers <3 MW)
ComEd Energy Procurement Plan
CPP-A is the auction for the annual fixed price product. It is the default service for customers between 400 KW and 3 MW. CPP-B is the auction for the blended fixed price products (blended 3-year contracts) applicable to residential and small commercial customers below 400 KW. Transitional contracts are shown in black boxes.
4
 
State Utility Regulation
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC)
The PUC has five full-time members, each appointed by the Governor (Ed Rendell, Democrat, elected in November 2002; term ends in January 2007) and confirmed by the Pennsylvania State Senate. The Commissioners serve for five-year, staggered terms. Under Pennsylvania law, no more than three Commissioners may belong to the same political party as the Governor. The Chairman and Vice Chairman are designated by the Governor.
Vacancy
(a)
 
PECO Energy  Electric Transition Plan
The PUC authorized recovery in PECO's 1998 settlement of $5.3 billion of stranded costs, or competitive transition charges (CTC) regulatory asset, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%, through 2010. The PUC authorized amortization of the regulatory asset through 2010.
PECO Energy  Schedule of System Average Electric Rates
Transmission rates are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The CTC rate is subject to annual reconciliation for actual retail sales. Rates increased from the original PUC settlement to reflect the roll-in of increased gross receipts tax and Universal Service Fund charge and nuclear decommissioning cost adjustment.
5
 
Exelon Corporation  Financial and Operating Highlights
 
(a) Common share data reflects 2-for-1 stock split effective May 5, 2004.
(b) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatthours (kWh).
Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings Per Share to GAAP
6
 
Exelon Corporation  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
7
 
Exelon Corporation  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
(a) Results reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
8
 
Commonwealth Edison Company  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
(a) Results reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
(b) Adjustment to exclude severance charges and adjustments to previously recorded severance reserves.
(c) Adjustment to exclude certain costs associated with Exelon's merger with PSEG which was terminated in September 2006.
(d) Adjustment to exclude the impairment of ComEd's goodwill.
(e) Adjustment for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47.
(f) Adjustment to exclude the losses associated with debt retirements at ComEd.
9
 
PECO Energy Company  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
(a) Results reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP).
(b) Adjustment to exclude certain costs associated with Exelon's merger with PSEG which was terminated in September 2006.
(c) Adjustment for the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 47.
(d) Adjustment to exclude severance charges.
10
 
Exelon Generation Company  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Income (unaudited)
 
11
 
Exelon and Operating Companies  Capital Structure and Capitalization Ratios
Credit Ratings as of October 31, 2006
12
 
Exelon Corporation  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of September 30, 2006
Exelon Generation  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of September 30, 2006
13
 
ComEd  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of September 30, 2006
14
 
PECO Energy  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of September 30, 2006
(a) PETT = PECO Energy Transition Trust
15
 
Exelon Service Area and Selected Generating Assets*
Braidwood (N) Byron (N) Clinton (N) Dresden (N) LaSalle (N) Quad Cities (N) Southeast Chicago (F)
Illinois A Exelon Corporate HQ A ComEd HQ B Exelon Nuclear HQ 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Wyman (F)
Maine 8
Conowingo (R)
Maryland 9
Framingham (F) New Boston (F) West Medway (F)
Massachusetts 10
11
12
Oyster Creek (N) Salem (N)
New Jersey 13
14
Conemaugh (F) Cromby (F) Eddystone (F) Fairless Hills (R) Keystone (F) Limerick (N) Muddy Run (R) Peach Bottom (N) Schuylkill (F) Three Mile Island (N)
Pennsylvania C Exelon Power Team HQ C Exelon Power HQ C Exelon Generation HQ D PECO HQ 15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
Handley (F) LaPorte (F) Mountain Creek (F)
Texas 25
26
27
2005 Exelon Generation  Ownership Equity
16
 
ComEd
Electric Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail
Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. The power purchase option (PPO) allows the purchase of electricity from ComEd at market-based prices. Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative supplier. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales.
17
 
ComEd
Customers at Year End
Heating and Cooling Degree Days
Peak System Load
18
 
PECO
Electric Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail
Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative supplier. Miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales.
19
 
PECO
Customers at Year End
Heating and Cooling Degree Days
Peak System Load
20
 
PECO
Gas Sales Statistics, Revenue and Customer Detail
21
 
Exelon Generation  Generating Resources
Sources of Electric Supply
Type of Capacity
Long-Term Contracts
ISO = Independent System Operator
22
 
Exelon Generation  Nuclear Generating Capacity
Exelon Nuclear Fleet
(a)
Nuclear Operating Data
(a)
Refueling Outage Days
(a)
 Conducted nine refueling outages in 2005
 Average refueling outage duration in 2005: 24 days
 U.S. average refueling duration in 2005: ~38 days
Net Generation  2005
 130,160 GWhs, excluding Salem
 137,936 GWhs, including Salem
 
(a) Excludes Salem; Salem's capacity factor was 92% in 2005.
(b) vs. industry average of 90.2%.
23
 
Exelon Generation  Total Electric Generating Capacity
Owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2005; does not include properties held by equity method investments:
Base-load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units are plants that usually house low-efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels, or pumped-storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods.
24
 
Exelon Generation  Total Electric Generating Supply (continued)
Owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2005; does not include properties held by equity method investments:
25
 
Fossil Emissions Reduction Summary
Owned generation as of December 31, 2005. Table does not include station auxiliary equipment, peaking combustion turbines or plants where Exelon owns less than 100 MW.
26
 
Fossil Emissions Reduction Summary
27
 
Exelon Generation  Electric Sales Statistics
Exelon Generation  Power Team Marketing Statistics
 
28
 
Exelon Generation  Power Team Marketing Statistics by Quarter
 
29


