FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20070530161230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
  
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange  Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01  Other Events.
On May 30, 2007, Floor Amendment No. 4 to Senate Bill 1592 was posted in the Illinois House of Representatives and was assigned to the House Electric Utility Oversight Committee.  Hearings on amended Senate Bill 1592 were held on May 30, 2007 before the House Electric Utility Oversight Committee, which approved the amendment by a vote of 5 to 4.   Amended Senate Bill 1592, if enacted into law, would, among other things:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To become law in Illinois, legislation would need to be passed by the House and Senate and signed by the Governor of Illinois.
 
Generation and ComEd and other utilities and generators in Illinois continue discussions with members of the Illinois General Assembly and others in an effort to address their concerns about higher electric bills through measures other than legislation that would be harmful to consumers, electric utilities and generators in Illinois.  Exelon, Generation, and ComEd (collectively, Registrants) are unable to predict the outcome of those discussions or the eventual result of the legislative process in Illinois, including whether other legislative proposals or initiatives may be made, introduced or acted upon.  The Registrants believe that amended Senate Bill 1592 represents an effort by its proponents to give the Illinois General Assembly or agencies controlled by the General Assembly control over public utilities and generation in Illinois and power to regulate the price of electricity generated in Illinois. The Registrants believe that amended Senate Bill 1592, if enacted into law, would have serious detrimental effects on Illinois, the Registrants, other utilities and generators of electricity, and consumers of electricity and would ultimately negatively impact the reliability of electric supply and service in Illinois.  The Registrants believe the proposed legislation is unconstitutional, and if enacted, the Registrants would pursue all available legal remedies.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by each of the Registrants. Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties.  The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelons, ComEds and Generations 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and (c) ITEM 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18;(2) Exelons First Quarter 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by Exelon, ComEd and Generation.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. Exelon, ComEd and Generation do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 


