FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20070904080535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
On September 4, 2007, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) will participate in the Lehman Brothers 2007 CEO Energy/Power Conference and will revise its adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings guidance range for 2007 for Exelon, Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation), Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) and PECO Energy Company (PECO) (the Registrants) to $4.15 to $4.30, $3.45 to $3.55, $0.20 to $0.25 and $0.65 to $0.70, respectively. Exelon will also reaffirm its GAAP earnings guidance range for 2007 for Exelon of $3.70 to $4.00. Attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the slides and 2006-2007 Exelon Fact Book to be used at the conference, respectively.
Section 8  Other Events
 
Share Repurchase Program
On September 4, 2007, Exelon issued a press release announcing that the Exelon board of directors had approved a share repurchase program for up to $1.25 billion of Exelon's outstanding stock. A copy of the press release announcing approval of the share repurchase program is attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The board of directors approved the share repurchase program on August 31, 2007.
Swap Agreement
On July 24, and 25, 2007, Exelon, Generation and ComEd filed Current Reports on Form 8-K disclosing the material terms of a settlement agreement to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois without a rate freeze, generation tax or other legislation that would be harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois (the Settlement). The Settlement would be effective only upon enactment of legislation (the Legislation), the language of which was disclosed in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Registrants (other than PECO) on July 27, 2007.
On August 28, 2007, the Legislation was enacted upon its signature by the Governor of Illinois, and accordingly the Settlement is effective.
The Legislation provides, in part, that utilities must enter into multi-year financial swap contract or contracts with a generation company or marketing company to be effective upon the effective date of the Legislation. The goal of these contracts is to promote price stability for residential and small business customers. The contracts will be included in the utilities' procurement plans as pre-existing contracts.
To fulfill this requirement, ComEd has entered into a financial swap contract with Generation that covers around-the-clock baseload energy only, not capacity or ancillary services or congestion (the Swap Agreement). Information concerning the Swap Agreement was provided in previous Current Reports on Form 8-K. The Swap Agreement is designed to dovetail with ComEd's remaining auction contracts for energy, increasing in volume as the auction contracts expire. By June 1, 2010, the Swap Agreement will cover about 60% of the energy that ComEd's residential and small business customers use. The Swap Agreement spans a five-year period from June 1, 2008 through May 31, 2013.
The pricing and volumes of the Swap Agreement are set forth in the table below:
 
The Swap Agreement includes no riders or contingencies that would allow for price increases or decreases beyond those specified, regardless of market conditions, or environmental restrictions including the enactment of carbon emission legislation. The Swap Agreement provides a hedge against future volatility.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by each of the Registrants. Information contained herein relating to any individual registrant has been furnished by such registrant on its own behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Second Quarter 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
September 4, 2007
 


Exhibit 99.2
Table of Contents
 
To the Financial Community,
The Exelon Fact Book is intended to provide historical financial and operating information to assist in the analysis of Exelon and its operating companies. Please refer to the SEC filings of Exelon and its subsidiaries, including the annual Form 10-K and quarterly Form 10-Q, for more comprehensive financial statements and information.
For more information about Exelon and to send e-mail inquiries, visit our website at www.exeloncorp.com.
 
Information in this Fact Book is current as of August 31, 2007 unless otherwise noted.
This publication includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Second Quarter 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by Exelon Corporation, Exelon Generation Company LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company, and PECO Energy Company (Companies). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this publication. None of the Companies undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this publication.
Exelon at a Glance
Company Profile
Exelon Corporation, headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S. with approximately 5.4 million customers and more than $15 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic.
Our Vision
Exelon will be the best group of electric generation and electric and gas delivery companies in the United States  providing superior value for our customers, employees, investors and the communities we serve.
Our Goals
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Values
 for our employees, our customers and our communities
Safety
 the highest ethical standards in what we say and what we do
Integrity
 in ethnicity, gender, experience and thought
Diversity
 trust and teamwork through open and honest communication
Respect
 for our commitments, actions and results
Accountability
 stretch goals and measured results
Continuous improvement
 
 
 
 
Company Overview
 
 
State Regulation
Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC)
(www.icc.illinois.gov)
The ICC has five full-time members, each appointed by the Governor (Rod Blagojevich, Democrat; term began in January 2003 and ends in January 2011) and confirmed by the Illinois State Senate. The Commissioners serve for five-year, staggered terms. Under Illinois law, no more than three Commissioners may belong to the same political party. The Chairman is designated by the Governor.
 
ComEd Electric Distribution Rate Case
 
 
 
State Regulation
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC)
(www.puc.state.pa.us)
The PUC has five full-time members, each appointed by the Governor (Ed Rendell, Democrat; term began in January 2003 and ends in January 2011) and confirmed by the Pennsylvania State Senate. The Commissioners serve for five-year, staggered terms. Under Pennsylvania law, no more than three Commissioners may belong to the same political party as the Governor. The Chairman and Vice Chairman are designated by the Governor.
 
PECO Energy  Electric Transition Plan
The PUC authorized recovery in PECO's 1998 settlement of $5.3 billion of stranded costs, or competitive transition charges (CTC) regulatory asset, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%, through 2010. The PUC authorized amortization of the regulatory asset through 2010.
 
PECO Energy  Schedule of System Average Electric Rates
Transmission rates are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The CTC rate is subject to annual reconciliation for actual retail sales. Rates increased from the original PUC settlement to reflect the roll-in of increased gross receipts tax and Universal Service Fund charge and nuclear decommissioning cost adjustment.
 
 
Federal Regulation
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
(www.ferc.gov)
The FERC has five full-time members, each appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. The Commissioners serve for five-year, staggered terms. No more than three Commissioners may belong to the same political party. The Chairman is designated by the President.
 
 
ComEd Electric Transmission Rate Case
 
 
 
 
 
Exelon Corporation  Financial and Operating Highlights
 
 
Exelon Corporation  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exelon Corporation  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
Exelon Generation Company  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating
Earnings to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commonwealth Edison Company  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PECO Energy Company  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exelon and Operating Companies  Capital Structure and Capitalization Ratios
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Ratings as of August 31, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
Exelon Corporation  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of December 31, 2006
 
 
Exelon Generation  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of December 31, 2006
 
 
 
ComEd  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of December 31, 2006
 
 
 
PECO Energy  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of December 31, 2006
 
 
 
 
Exelon Service Area and Selected Generating Assets*
Illinois
 
Maine
 
Maryland
 
Massachusetts
 
New Jersey
 
Pennsylvania
 
Texas
 
2006 Exelon Generation  Ownership Equity
 
 
Exelon Generation  Generating Resources
Sources of Electric Supply
 
 
 
Long-Term Contracts
(At August 31, 2007)
 
ISO = Independent System Operator
 
 
Exelon Generation  Nuclear Generating Capacity
Exelon Nuclear Fleet
(a)
(At December 31, 2006)
 
 
 
 
 
NSSS Vendor = Nuclear Steam Supply System Vendor
Nuclear Operating Data
 
Refueling Outage Days
(
a)
 2006
 Conducted ten refueling outages
 Average refueling outage duration: 24 days
 U.S. average refueling duration: ~39 days
Net Generation  2006
 131,385 GWhs, excluding Salem
 139,610 GWhs, including Salem
Refueling Outages (including Salem)
2006: 11 actual
2007: 9 planned
2008: 12 planned
 
 
Source for industry averages: Exelon Nuclear 2007 Benchmarking Report
 
Exelon Generation  Total Electric Generating Capacity
Owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2006; does not include properties held by equity method investments:
Base-load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units are plants that usually house low-efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels, or pumped-storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods.
 
 
Exelon Generation  Total Electric Generating Supply
(continued)
Owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2005; does not include properties held by equity method investments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fossil Emissions Reduction Summary
Owned generation as of December 31, 2006. Table does not include station auxiliary equipment, peaking combustion turbines or plants where Exelon owns less than 100 MW.
 
 
 
Fossil Emissions Reduction Summary
 
 
Exelon Generation  Annual Electric Supply and Sales Statistics
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exelon Generation  Electric Supply and Sales Statistics by Quarter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ComEd
Electric Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail
Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. The power purchase option (PPO) allows the purchase of electricity from ComEd at market-based prices. Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative supplier. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue (including revenue from PJM), sales to municipalities and other wholesale energy sales.
 
 
ComEd
Customers at Year End
 
 
PECO
Electric Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail
Full service reflects deliveries to customers taking electric service under tariffed rates. Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive generation service from an alternative supplier. Wholesale and miscellaneous revenues include transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales.
 
 
PECO
Customers at Year End
 
 
PECO
Gas Sales Statistics, Revenue and Customer Detail
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
(September 4, 2007)  Exelon Corporation today announced that its board of directors has approved a share repurchase program for up to $1.25 billion of its outstanding common stock. Exelon expects to complete the share repurchase program within the next six months.
CHICAGO
"We have robust cash flows and an increasingly strong balance sheet. We remain committed to returning cash to shareholders through our value return policy, while maintaining appropriate financial flexibility to make sound investments in our businesses and take advantage of opportunities that may arise," said John W. Rowe, Exelon's chairman, president and CEO.
The Exelon board of directors approved Exelon's value return policy on December 5, 2006. This policy established a base dividend that Exelon expects will grow modestly over time. It also contemplates the use of share repurchases from time to time, when authorized by the board of directors, to return cash or balance sheet capacity to Exelon shareholders after funding maintenance capital and other commitments and in the absence of higher value-added growth opportunities.
The Board authorization permits the company to effect the repurchases from time to time through a variety of methods including open market repurchases, privately negotiated transactions and/or accelerated share repurchase transactions. There can be no assurance as to the amount, timing or prices of repurchases. The specific timing and amount of repurchases will vary based on market conditions and other factors. The stock repurchase program may be modified, extended or terminated by the board of directors at any time.
2007 Earnings Outlook
Exelon revised its adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings guidance range for 2007 to $4.15 to $4.30 per share. Exelon's original operating earnings guidance range was $4.00 to $4.30.
 
"With half a year of strong performance behind us, we are revising our 2007 operating earnings guidance to the upper half of our original guidance range," said Rowe.
The following table indicates revised guidance ranges by operating company contribution to 2007 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings per Exelon share, excluding Exelon holding company:
 
The outlook for 2007 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for Exelon and its subsidiaries excludes the following items included in GAAP earnings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In consideration of these factors, Exelon reaffirmed 2007 GAAP earnings guidance of $3.70 to $4.00 per share. Both Exelon's adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings and GAAP earnings guidance are based on the assumption of normal weather.
Rowe will discuss the share buyback and 2007 earnings guidance today at the Lehman Brothers CEO Energy/Power Conference in New York City. His presentation will be Web cast live at 2:25 p.m. Eastern time. To view the Web cast, go to www.exeloncorp.com and select the Investor Relations page.
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Second Quarter 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Exelon Corporation, Exelon Generation Company, LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company and PECO Energy Company (Companies). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this news release. None of the Companies undertakes any obligation
 
to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release.
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately 5.4 million customers and more than $15 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.4 million customers in Illinois and Pennsylvania and natural gas to more than 480,000 customers in southeastern Pennsylvania. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.
 


