FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20070910170324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Exelon Corporation (Exelon) previously filed a Current Report on Form 8-K and issued a press release announcing that its board of directors on August 31, 2007 had approved a share repurchase program for up to $1.25 billion of Exelon's outstanding stock.
After the close of markets on September 4, 2007, Exelon entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction with an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Inc. (Lehman) and a separate accelerated repurchase transaction with an affiliate of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (Merrill). Pursuant to the terms of the transactions, Exelon will purchase outstanding shares of its common stock from Lehman and Merrill for a total of $1.25 billion. Lehman and Merrill will make an initial delivery of shares to Exelon shortly after the execution of the transactions, and may deliver additional shares to Exelon at or prior to completion of the transactions. The total number of shares to be repurchased by Exelon will be subject to a minimum and maximum numbers of shares in each transaction. Please refer to the agreement for the accelerated share repurchase transaction with Lehman, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report, and the agreement for the accelerated share repurchase transaction with Merrill, which is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report, for a more complete description of the transactions.
The aggregate payment of $1.25 billion to Lehman and Merrill will be funded primarily from available cash.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Second Quarter 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities Exchange Commission by Exelon. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. Exelon does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
September 10, 2007
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Dear Sir or Madam:
The purpose of this communication (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the transaction (the "") entered into between Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. ("") and Exelon Corporation ("") on the Trade Date specified below. This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below. This Confirmation is sent on behalf both Party A and Lehman Brothers Inc. ("").
Confirmation
Transaction
Party A
Party B
LBI
Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives Inc. is not a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Party A and Party B as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 1992 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule) on the Trade Date of the Transaction. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that agreement, or the Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction.
Agreement
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "") and the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the "", and together with the Equity Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ("") are incorporated into this Confirmation. References herein to "Transaction" shall be deemed references to "Swap Transaction" for purposes of the Swap Definitions. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and the Swap Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern. In the event of any inconsistency between either set of Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. The Transaction shall constitute a Share Forward Transaction for the purposes of the Equity Definitions and shall be the only Transaction under the Agreement.
Equity Definitions
Swap Definitions
Definitions
ISDA
The terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THE CONFIRMATION HAVE BEEN ACQUIRED FOR INVESTMENT AND HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 OR ANY OTHER UNITED STATES FEDERAL OR STATE SECURITIES LAWS; SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF APPROPRIATE REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH SECURITIES LAWS OR EXCEPT IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM OR NOT SUBJECT TO THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH SECURITIES LAWS.
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by executing this Confirmation and returning such Confirmation, in its entirety, to us at facsimile number 646-885-9546 (United States of America), Attention: Documentation.
 
Execution time will be furnished upon Party B's written request.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
Master Confirmation of OTC Collared ASAP
 
 
Dear Sir / Madam:
The purpose of this letter agreement (the "") and the supplemental confirmation attached hereto as Exhibit A ("", and the Supplemental Confirmation, together with the Master Confirmation, this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the transaction entered into between Counterparty and MLI through its agent Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("" or "") on the Trade Date specified below (""). This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" both on behalf of MLI, as referred to in the ISDA Master Agreement specified below, and on behalf of MLPF&S, as agent of MLI.
Master Confirmation
Supplemental Confirmation
Confirmation
MLPF&S
Agent
Transaction
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the "") and the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "" and, together with the Swap Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Swap Definitions and the Equity Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern, in the event of any inconsistency between the Definitions and the Master Confirmation, the Master Confirmation will govern, and in the event of any inconsistency between the Master Confirmation and the Supplemental Confirmation, the Supplemental Confirmation will govern. References herein to any "Transaction" shall be deemed to be references to a "Share Forward Transaction" for purposes of the Equity Definitions and a "Swap Transaction" for the purposes of the Swap Definitions.
1.
Swap Definitions
Equity Definitions
Definitions
This Confirmation evidences a complete binding agreement between you and us as to the terms of the Transactions to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation (notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein), shall be subject to an agreement in the 1992 form of the ISDA Master Agreement (Multicurrency Cross Border) (the "" or "") as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule and with elections specified in the "ISDA Master Agreement" Section of the Master Confirmation) on the Trade Date of the Transaction. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction.
Master Agreement
Agreement
The terms of the Transaction to which the Master Confirmation relates are as follows:
2.
General Terms:
 
 
 
Number of Shares to be Delivered: The Repurchase Shares the Initial Shares.
minus
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Confirmation or the Supplemental Confirmation, if MLI (together with its affiliates, as such term is defined under the Exchange Act) acquire or hold a number of Shares or other equity securities of Counterparty exchangeable for or convertible into Shares which in aggregate would equal or exceed 4.75% of all Shares then issued and outstanding (the ""), MLI may at any time and from time to time during the term of the Transaction deliver to Counterparty a number of Shares to cause MLI and its affiliates to hold less than the Ownership Limit and Counterparty agrees to take ownership of any such Shares, that MLI has furnished to Counterparty three days' prior notice in writing specifying a date for settlement (each, a "") and the number of Shares to be delivered by MLI to Counterparty on the Special Settlement Date. The parties understand and agree that (i) the delivery of the Shares by or on behalf of MLI is irrevocable and that as of any Special Settlement Date Counterparty will be the sole beneficial owner of the Shares for all purposes and (ii) the number of Shares delivered by MLI on any such Special Settlement Date will reduce the Number of Shares to be Delivered by MLI on the Settlement Date. For the avoidance of doubt, Counterparty will under no circumstances be required to return to MLI any Shares delivered to Counterparty on any Special Settlement Date.
Ownership Limit
provided
Special Settlement Date
 
Counterparty hereby agrees that if, in the good faith reasonable judgment of MLI, any Shares ("") acquired by MLI for the purpose of hedging its obligations pursuant to any Transaction cannot be sold in the public market by MLI without registration under the Securities Act, Counterparty shall, at its election, either (i) in order to allow MLI to sell such Hedge Shares in a registered offering, make available to MLI an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and enter into an agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to MLI, substantially in the form of an underwriting agreement for a registered secondary offering; , however, that if MLI, in its sole reasonable discretion, is not satisfied with access to due diligence materials, the results of its due diligence investigation, or the procedures and documentation for the registered offering referred to above, then clause (ii) or clause (iii) of this paragraph shall apply at the election of Counterparty, (ii) in order to allow MLI to sell such Hedge Shares in a private placement, enter into a private placement agreement substantially similar to private placement purchase agreements customary for private placements of equity securities, in form and substance satisfactory to MLI (in which case, the Calculation Agent shall make any adjustments to the terms of such Transaction that are necessary, in its reasonable judgment, to compensate MLI for any discount from the public market price of the Shares incurred on the sale of Hedge Shares in a private placement), or (iii) purchase such Hedge Shares from MLI at the Relevant Price on such Exchange Business Days, and in the amounts, requested by MLI.
Hedge Shares
provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Counterparty hereby represents and warrants:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of Counterparty's bankruptcy, MLI's rights in connection with any Transaction shall not exceed those rights held by common shareholders. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties acknowledge and agree that MLI's rights with respect to any other claim arising from any Transaction prior to Counterparty's bankruptcy shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be otherwise abridged or modified in connection herewith.
 
Subject to "Netting of Payments" below, obligations under the Transaction shall not be netted, recouped or set off (including pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement) against any other obligations of the parties, whether arising under the Agreement, this Confirmation, under any other agreement between the parties hereto, by operation of law or otherwise, and no other obligations of the parties shall be netted, recouped or set off (including pursuant to Section 6 of the Agreement) against obligations under the Transaction, whether arising under the Agreement, this Confirmation, under any other agreement between the parties hereto, by operation of law or otherwise, and each party hereby waives any such right of setoff, netting or recoupment.
 
None.
 
Counterparty may transfer any of its rights or delegate its obligations under the Transaction with the prior written consent of MLI. MLI may assign and delegate its rights and obligations under the Transaction (the "") to any subsidiary of ML & Co. (the "") by notice specifying the effective date
Transferred Obligations
Assignee
 
of such transfer ("") and including an executed acceptance and assumption by the Assignee of the Transferred Obligations; that (i) Counterparty will not, as a result of such transfer, be required to pay to the Assignee an amount in respect of an Indemnifiable Tax under Section 2(d)(i)(4) of the Agreement (except in respect of interest under Section 2(e), 6(d)(ii), or 6(e)) greater than the amount in respect of which Counterparty would have been required to pay to MLI in the absence of such transfer; (ii) the Assignee will not, as a result of such transfer, be required to withhold or deduct on account of a Tax under Section 2(d)(i) of the Agreement (except in respect of interest under Section 2(e), 6(d)(ii), or 6(e)) an amount in excess of that which MLI would have been required to withhold or deduct in the absence of such transfer, unless the Assignee would be required to make additional payments pursuant to Section 2(d)(i)(4) of the Agreement corresponding to such excess; and (iii) the obligations of Assignee will be guaranteed by ML&Co. pursuant to a guarantee substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. On the Effective Date, (a) MLI shall be released from all obligations and liabilities arising under the Transferred Obligations; and (b) if MLI has not assigned and delegated its rights and obligations under the Agreement and all Transactions thereunder, the Transferred Obligations shall cease to be a Transaction under the Agreement and shall be deemed to be a Transaction under the master agreement, if any, between Assignee and Counterparty, that, if at such time Assignee and Counterparty have not entered into a master agreement, Assignee and Counterparty shall be deemed to have entered into an ISDA form of Master Agreement (Multicurrency-Cross Border) and Schedule substantially in the form of the Agreement but amended to reflect the name of the Assignee and the address for notices and any amended representations under Part 2 of the Agreement as may be specified in the notice of transfer.
Effective Date
provided
provided
 
MLI is regulated by The Securities and Futures Authority Limited and has entered into the Transaction as principal.
 
Counterparty agrees to indemnify MLI, its Affiliates and their respective directors, officers, agents and controlling parties (MLI and each such person being an "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities, joint and several, to which such MLI Indemnified Party may become subject because of the untruth of any representation by Counterparty or a breach by Counterparty of any agreement or covenant under this Confirmation, in the Agreement, the Plan or any other agreement relating to the Agreement or the Transaction and will reimburse any MLI Indemnified Party for all reasonable expenses (including reasonable legal fees and expenses) as they are incurred in connection with the investigation of, preparation for, or defense of, any pending or threatened claim or any action or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto.
MLI Indemnified Party
MLI agrees to indemnify Counterparty, its Affiliates and their respective directors, officers, agents and controlling parties (Counterparty and each such person being an "") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities, joint and several, to which such Counterparty Indemnified Party may become subject because of the untruth of any representation by MLI or a breach by MLI of any agreement or covenant under this Confirmation, in the Agreement or any other agreement relating to the Agreement or the Transaction and will reimburse any Counterparty Indemnified Party for all reasonable expenses (including reasonable legal fees and expenses) as they are incurred in connection with the investigation of, preparation for, or defense of, any pending or threatened claim or any action or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Counterparty Indemnified Party is a party thereto.
Counterparty Indemnified Party
 
MLI and Counterparty agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in the Agreement, in the event that (i) an Early Termination Date (whether as a result of an Event of Default or Termination Event) occurs or is designated with respect to any Transaction and, as a result, Counterparty owes to MLI an amount calculated under Section 6(e) of the Agreement or (ii) an Extraordinary Event occurs that results in the termination or cancellation of any Transaction pursuant to Article 12 of the Equity Definitions and, as a result, Counterparty owes to MLI a Cancellation Amount or any other amount in respect to the Transaction, such amount shall be deemed to be zero. For the avoidance of doubt, the Counterparty shall not be required to make any additional cash payments (other than the Prepayment Amount) or deliver or return any Shares pursuant to the terms of the Transaction (including, without limitation, the Minimum Shares delivered on the Exchange Business Day immediately following the Hedging Completion Date).
 
With respect to the Agreement, MLI and Counterparty each agree as follows:
Specified Entities:
(i) in relation to MLI, for the purposes of:
: not applicable
Section 5(a)(v)
: not applicable
Section 5(a)(vi)
: not applicable
Section 5(a)(vii)
: not applicable
Section 5(b)(iv)
and (ii) in relation to Counterparty, for the purposes of:
: not applicable
Section 5(a)(v)
: not applicable
Section 5(a)(vi)
: not applicable
Section 5(a)(vii)
: not applicable
Section 5(b)(iv)
"" will have the meaning specified in of the Agreement.
Specified Transaction
Section 14
The "" provisions of of the Agreement will not apply to MLI and Counterparty.
Credit Event Upon Merger
Section 5(b)(iv)
The "" provision of of the Agreement will not apply to MLI or to Counterparty.
Automatic Early Termination
Section 6(a)
for the purpose of of the Agreement: (i) Market Quotation shall apply; and (ii) the Second Method shall apply.
Payments on Early Termination
Section 6(e)
"" means USD.
Termination Currency
Tax Representations:
 
 
 
 
: For the purpose of , and  of the Agreement, each party agrees to deliver the following documents:
Delivery Requirements
Sections 3(d)
4(a)(i)
(ii)
Tax forms, documents or certificates to be delivered are:
Each party agrees to complete (accurately and in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the other party), execute, and deliver to the other party, United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or W-8 BEN, or any successor of such form(s): (i) before the first payment date under this agreement; (ii) promptly upon reasonable demand by the other party; and (iii) promptly upon learning that any such form(s) previously provided by the other party has become obsolete or incorrect.
Other documents to be delivered:
 
For the purpose of Section 12(a) of the Agreement:
Addresses for Notices:
Address for notices or communications to MLI:
 
(For all purposes)
 
Additionally, a copy of all notices pursuant to Sections 5, 6, and 7 as well as any changes to Counterparty's address, telephone number or facsimile number should be sent to:
 
Address for notices or communications to Counterparty for all purposes:
 
Additionally, a copy of all notices pursuant to Sections 5, 6, and 7 as well as any changes to MLI's address, telephone number or facsimile number should be sent to:
 
For the purpose of Section 13(c) of the Agreement, MLI appoints as its process agent:
Process Agent:
 
. For the purpose of of the Agreement: Neither MLI nor Counterparty is a Multibranch Party.
Multibranch Party
Section 10(c)
. The Calculation Agent is MLI, whose judgments, determinations and calculations in the Transaction and any related hedging transaction between the parties shall be made in good faith and in a commercially reasonable manner. Following any calculation by the Calculation Agent hereunder, upon a written request by Counterparty, the Calculation Agent will provide to Counterparty by e-mail to the e-mail address provided by Counterparty in such a prior written request a report displaying in reasonable detail the basis for such calculation.
Calculation Agent
Credit Support Document.
MLI: Guarantee of ML&Co in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Counterparty: Not Applicable
Credit Support Provider.
With respect to MLI: Merrill Lynch and Co. and with respect to Counterparty, Not Applicable.
 
.This Confirmation will be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to any choice of law provision or rule that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than New York.
Governing Law
. The provisions of Section 2(c) of the Agreement shall not be applicable to the Transaction; , however, that with respect to this Agreement or any other ISDA Master Agreement between the parties, any Share delivery obligations on any day of Counterparty, on the one hand, and MLI, on the other hand, shall be netted. The resulting Share delivery obligation of a party upon such netting shall be rounded down to the nearest number of whole Shares, such that neither party shall be required to deliver any fractional Shares.
Netting of Payments
provided
. of the Agreement is hereby amended by adding in the third line thereof after the word "respect" and before the period the words "or, in the case of audited or unaudited financial statements or balance sheets, a fair presentation of the financial condition of the relevant person."
Accuracy of Specified Information
Section 3(d)
. of the Agreement is hereby amended by the deletion of "and" at the end of ; the substitution of a semicolon for the period at the end of and the addition of , as follows:
Basic Representations
Section 3(a)
Section 3(a)(iv)
Section 3(a)(v)
Sections 3(a)(vi)
. It is an "eligible contract participant" as defined in the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, and it has entered into this Confirmation and each Transaction in connection with its business or a line of business (including financial intermediation), or the financing of its business.
Eligible Contract Participant; Line of Business
.Section 3(a)(iii) of the Agreement is modified to read as follows:
Amendment of Section 3(a)(iii)
. Such execution, delivery and performance do not materially violate or conflict with any law known by it to be applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any material contractual restriction relating to Specified Indebtedness binding on or affecting it or any of its assets.
No Violation or Conflict
. Section 3(a)(iv) of the Agreement is modified by inserting the following at the beginning thereof:
Amendment of
Section 3(a)(iv)
"To such party's best knowledge,"
Additional Representations:
. As of the date hereof and the Trade Date, Counterparty represents and warrants that it: (i) has such knowledge and experience in financial and business affairs as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of entering into the Transaction; (ii) has consulted with its own legal, financial, accounting and tax advisors in connection with the Transaction; and (iii) is entering into the Transaction for a bona fide business purpose to hedge or repurchase Shares.
Counterparty Representations
As of the date hereof and the Trade Date, Counterparty represents and warrants that it is not and has not been the subject of any civil proceeding of a judicial or administrative body of competent jurisdiction that could reasonably be expected to impair materially Counterparty's ability to perform its obligations hereunder.
As of the date hereof and the Trade Date, Counterparty is not insolvent.
Acknowledgements:
(1) The parties acknowledge and agree that there are no other representations, agreements or other undertakings of the parties in relation to the Transaction, except as set forth in this Confirmation.
 
(2) The parties hereto intend for:
(a) the Transaction to be a "securities contract" as defined in Section 741(7) of Title 11 of the United States Code (the ""), qualifying for the protections under Section 555 of the Bankruptcy Code;
Bankruptcy Code
(b) a party's right to liquidate the Transaction and to exercise any other remedies upon the occurrence of any Event of Default under the Agreement with respect to the other party to constitute a "contractual right" as defined in the Bankruptcy Code;
(c) all payments for, under or in connection with the Transaction, all payments for the Shares and the transfer of such Shares to constitute "settlement payments" as defined in the Bankruptcy Code.
. Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement is modified by deleting the words "on the day" in the second line thereof and substituting therefor "on the day that is three Local Business Days after the day". is further modified by deleting the words "two Local Business Days" in the fourth line thereof and substituting therefor "three Local Business Days."
Amendment of )
Section 6(d)(ii
Section 6(d)(ii)
. The definition of "Reference Market-Makers" in is hereby amended by adding in clause (a) after the word "credit" and before the word "and" the words "or to enter into transactions similar in nature to Transactions".
Amendment of Definition of Reference Market-Makers
Section 14
. Each party consents to the recording of the telephone conversations of trading and marketing personnel of the parties and their Affiliates in connection with this Confirmation. To the extent that one party records telephone conversations (the "") and the other party does not (the ""), the Recording Party shall in the event of any dispute, make a complete and unedited copy of such party's tape of the entire day's conversations with the Non-Recording Party's personnel available to the Non-Recording Party. The Recording Party's tapes may be used by either party in any forum in which a dispute is sought to be resolved and the Recording Party will retain tapes for a consistent period of time in accordance with the Recording Party's policy unless one party notifies the other that a particular transaction is under review and warrants further retention.
Consent to Recording
Recording Party
Non-Recording Party
. Each party hereby acknowledges and agrees that MLI has authorized Counterparty to disclose the Transaction and any related hedging transaction between the parties if and to the extent that Counterparty reasonably determines (after consultation with MLI) that such disclosure is required by law or by the rules of any securities exchange or similar trading platform.
Disclosure
. If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Confirmation, or the application thereof to any party or circumstance, shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part for any reason, the remaining terms, provisions, covenants, and conditions hereof shall continue in full force and effect as if this Confirmation had been executed with the invalid or unenforceable provision eliminated, so long as this Confirmation as so modified continues to express, without material change, the original intentions of the parties as to the subject matter of this Confirmation and the deletion of such portion of this Confirmation will not substantially impair the respective benefits or expectations of parties to this Agreement; , however, that this severability provision shall not be applicable if any provision of , , or of the Agreement (or any definition or provision in to the extent that it relates to, or is used in or in connection with any such Section) shall be so held to be invalid or unenforceable.
Severability
provided
Section 2
5
6
13
Section 14
. For purposes of of the Agreement, each party shall be deemed to be an Affected Party in connection with Illegality and any Tax Event.
Affected Parties
Section 6(e)
 
Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing the copy of this Master Confirmation enclosed for that purpose and returning it to us.
Very truly yours,
 
Confirmed as of the date first above written:
 
Acknowledged and agreed as to matters relating to the Agent:
 
 


