FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20071018123238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
As previously disclosed in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 17, 2007, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) filed a request with the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) seeking approval to increase its delivery service rates. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is additional information provided to investors regarding the requested revenue requirement increase and the tentative schedule for the review of the rate case filing.
Section 8  Other Events
 
On October 11, 2007, the ICC approved a filing that makes the electric supply competitive for all of ComEd's approximately 18,000 medium-sized non-residential customers. Attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K is ComEd's press release regarding this filing.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and ComEd (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's and ComEd's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's and ComEd's Second Quarter 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. Neither of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
October 18, 2007
 


Exhibit 99.2
 
The Illinois Commerce Commission approved a filing that makes the electric supply competitive for all of ComEd's approximately 18,000 medium-sized non-residential customers. Examples of customers in this group include fast food restaurants, small grocery stores and small machine shops.
CHICAGO (October 18, 2007)
More than 50 percent of these medium-sized customers already have chosen alternative energy supply from one of 19 different suppliers. By law, all customers with peak demand from 100 to 400 kilowatts (kW) may be declared competitive once a minimum of 33 percent of this customer group is taking service from at least three competitive suppliers.
Here is what the declaration means for ComEd's 100 to 400 kW customer group:
 
 
 
All of ComEd's large commercial customers with a peak demand of 400 kW or greater were declared competitive in August with the passage of a settlement between Illinois utilities and lawmakers. More than 85 percent of ComEd's customers in this group already are choosing alternative suppliers. Examples of customers in this group include big box stores, large grocery stores, hospitals, colleges and manufacturers. These customers still on a fixed ComEd electric supply rate can stay on a fixed price until May 2008, at which time they will need to choose an alternative RES or receive an hourly-priced default rate from ComEd.
Non-residential customers can visit www.ComEdpowerpath.com to learn more information about supplier choices.
Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) is a unit of Chicago-based Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC), one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately 5.4 million customers. ComEd provides service to approximately 3.8 million customers across Northern Illinois, or 70 percent of the state's population.


