FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20070724152228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events
On July 24, 2007, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) announced that it expected to conclude an oral agreement (the Settlement) with the Speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives, the President of the Illinois Senate, the minority leaders of the Illinois House and Senate, the Attorney General of the State of Illinois (the Attorney General), Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation), and other utilities and generators in Illinois following their discussions of measures to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois without rate freeze, generation tax or other legislation that would be harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. If and when concluded, the Settlement will be confirmed in a letter (Letter) from ComEd, Generation, and other utilities and generators addressed to the Speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives, the President of the Illinois Senate, the minority leaders of the Illinois House and Senate, and the Attorney General. The Settlement will be effective only upon enactment of proposed legislation negotiated in connection with settlement discussions, which would be attached to the Letter (Proposed Legislation). In connection with the Settlement, the Attorney General, ComEd, Generation, and other utilities and generators are expected to execute a release and settlement agreement (Release and Settlement Agreement) relating to various pending legal proceedings relating to the 2006 Illinois procurement auction. This Report presents a summary of the expected Settlement, the Proposed Legislation and the Release and Settlement Agreement. No assurances can be given that the expected Settlement will be concluded or that the Proposed Legislation will be enacted. The final Settlement, if and when it is concluded, and the Proposed Legislation, if and when it is enacted, may differ from the summary. If and when the Settlement is concluded, ComEd and Generation will file a subsequent report with further information.
Principal Terms of the Expected Settlement
The Settlement, if it becomes effective, would provide for the following, among other things:
 
Summary of the Proposed Legislation
The Proposed Legislation, if enacted into law, would provide for the following, among other things:
Illinois Power Agency.
Provisions relating to power procurement.
 
.
Long-Term Financial Swap Contracts
Declaration of service as a competitive service.
Energy efficiency and demand response programs.
 
Renewable Portfolio Standard.
 
Restructuring transactions.
The Proposed Legislation would amend section 16-111(g) of the Public Utilities Act to extend the power of a utility to engage in divestiture and other restructuring transactions without prior ICC approval until all classes of tariffed service are declared competitive.
Membership in Regional Transmission Organization.
Until at least June 30, 2022, the state will not prohibit an electric utility from maintaining its membership in a FERC-approved regional transmission organization chosen by the utility.
Condominium association buildings.
ComEd will be required to provide tariffed service to condominium associations at rates that do not exceed rates offered to residential customers.
Termination of service.
The Proposed Legislation prohibits utilities from terminating electric service to a residential electric space heat customer due to nonpayment before September 1, 2007 or between December 1 of any year through March 1 of the following year.
Proposed Release and Settlement Agreement
In connection with the expected Settlement, ComEd, Generation, the Ameren Utilities and their affiliated generation companies and other parties to the Settlement, and the Attorney General expect to enter into a Release and Settlement Agreement releasing and dismissing with prejudice all litigation, claims and regulatory proceedings and appeals relating to or arising out of the procurement of power, including ICC and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) proceedings relating to the procurement of power. The Release and Settlement Agreement will be contingent upon the enactment of the Proposed Legislation.
In connection with the expected Settlement described above, Generation, ComEd and the Attorney General may enter into a Rate Relief Funding Agreement, pursuant to which ComEd will contractually commit itself to the rate relief contemplated by the Settlement and Generation will contractually commit itself to reimburse ComEd for up to $435 million of costs incurred by ComEd in connection with the rate relief contemplated by the Settlement. The commitments of ComEd and Generation in this Rate Relief Funding Agreement will not be effective unless the Proposed Legislation becomes effective and may be terminated in the event that, prior to August 1, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly passes legislation that freezes or reduces electric rates of ComEd or the Ameren Utilities or imposes a generation tax on Generation or the generation companies owned by Ameren Corporation.
In connection with the expected Settlement described above, Generation, the Ameren Utilities, affiliates of the Ameren Utilities, and the Attorney General may enter into a Rate Relief Funding Agreement, pursuant to which the Ameren Utilities will contractually commit themselves to the rate relief contemplated by the Settlement and Generation will contractually committed itself to reimburse the Ameren Utilities for up to $307.5 million of costs incurred by the Ameren Utilities in connection with the rate relief contemplated by the Settlement. The commitments of Generation in this Rate Relief Funding Agreement will not be effective unless the Proposed Legislation becomes effective and may be terminated in the event that, prior to August 1, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly passes legislation that freezes or reduces electric rates of ComEd or the Ameren Utilities or imposes a generation tax on Generation or the generation companies owned by Ameren Corporation.
Exelon has scheduled a conference call for 11 AM ET (10 AM CT) on July 25, 2007, during which Exelon will discuss the expected Settlement and respond to questions from investors. The call-in number in the U.S. is 800-690-3108, and the international call-in number is 973-935-8753. No password is required. Media representatives are invited to participate on a listen-only basis. The call will be web-cast and archived on Exelon's Web site: www.exeloncorp.com. (Please select the Investor Relations page.)
Conference call information:
 
Telephone replays will be available until August 8. The U.S. call-in number for replays is 877-519-4471, and the international call-in number is 973-341-3080. The confirmation code is 8962952.
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by each of Exelon Corporation, ComEd and Generation (the Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Registrants' 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation and (c) ITEM 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Registrants' First Quarter 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. The Registrants do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
July 24, 2007
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Illinois Settlement: Sources and Recipients of Funds
 


