FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20080108170855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On January 8, 2008, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) announced that John F. Young had resigned from his positions at Exelon, effective immediately. Mr. Young served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets, and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of Exelon, and as the principal financial officer of Exelon and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation). Exelon expects to announce a new CFO after its board of directors meets in late January 2008. The press release announcing Mr. Young's resignation is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon and Generation (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Third Quarter 2007 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
January 8, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
(Jan. 8, 2008) Exelon today announced that Executive Vice President and CFO John F. Young, 51, has resigned his positions at Exelon, effective immediately, to become CEO of Energy Future Holdings. Formerly named TXU Corp., Energy Future Holdings is a Dallas-based energy holding company.
CHICAGO
"John has played a critical role in helping Exelon deliver increasing value to our shareholders and customers," said John W. Rowe, chairman, president and CEO of Exelon. "Though we are sorry to lose him, we congratulate John and wish him the very best. His drive and discipline will serve Energy Future Holdings well."
"Exelon has been an exciting place to work, and I am grateful for the opportunity John Rowe and the board of directors have given me. I am especially proud of the performance record we built," said Young.
Young joined Exelon Power in March 2003 as chief operating officer and was named its president in May 2003. In July 2004, he was appointed president of Exelon Generation, with responsibility for Exelon's Nuclear, Power and Power Team businesses. He was named executive vice president of finance and markets in March 2005 and appointed CFO in December 2005, with responsibility for Exelon's financial organization and Power Team. Prior to joining Exelon, Young worked for Sierra Pacific Resources; Southern Company; and Southern's operating units, Southern Generation and Gulf Power.
Exelon expects to announce a new CFO after its board of directors meets in late January.
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with more than $15 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.4 million customers in northern Illinois and Pennsylvania and natural gas to approximately 480,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.


