FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20080916100625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8Other Events
 
As previously disclosed, on October 17, 2007, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) filed a request with the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) seeking approval to increase its delivery service revenue requirement to reflect increasing operating costs and its continued investment in delivery service assets since rates were last determined. On September 10, 2008, the ICC issued an order in the 2007 Rate Case. A copy of ComEd's press release describing the ICC's decision is attached to this filing as Exhibit 99.1. The ICC's final rate order provided for a revenue increase of $273.6 million based upon a rate base of $6,694 million; an authorized return on equity of 10.30%; and an overall rate of return of 8.36%. This rate increase will take effect on September 16, 2008. As a result of the ICC order, during the third quarter 2008 ComEd will also be required to expense approximately $37 million (pre-tax) related to various fixed asset disallowances, which will be partially offset by the establishment of approximately $13 million (pre-tax) of regulatory assets for costs that had previously been expensed, that will now be recovered through rates over the next several years. A copy of the ICC order is available on the ICC's website, http://www.icc.illinois.gov/docket/files.aspx?no=07-0566&docId=128596.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and ComEd (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 19; (2) Exelon's Second Quarter 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 12; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
September 16, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
ComEd Media Relations
(312) 394-3500
CHICAGO (September 10, 2008)  The Illinois Commerce Commission announced in a news release today that it granted ComEd a delivery service rate increase of approximately $270 million. This represents a $90 million reduction of ComEd's original $361 million rate increase request. The new rates are related only to the costs that ComEd incurs to deliver electricity to its customers. This increase will raise the average residential customer's monthly bill by approximately $4.50 on an average $81 monthly bill, according to ICC figures.
ComEd has not yet received an ICC Order for its rate increase request and will need to evaluate it in its entirety, as well as its impact on customers and the company. The Commission is expected to issue its Order this week.
ComEd's request for a rate increase was made in response to higher costs to modernize and maintain system reliability. The cost increases are being driven by increased demand, and increased material costs for system infrastructure improvements.
"While ComEd is committed to keeping rates as low as possible, we are also committed to providing our 3.8 million customers with reliable service. This increase is necessary to respond to higher infrastructure improvement costs and to support growing demand," said Anne Pramaggiore, executive vice president of customer operations, regulatory and external affairs for ComEd.
ComEd remains committed to keeping the lights on while looking for ways to operate more efficiently and generate sustained cost-savings, which directly benefits our customers.
"We look forward to engaging further with the ICC and others to explore new Smart Grid technologies that can dramatically change the nature of service to our customers and empower them to make wiser energy choices," said Pramaggiore.
The ICC gave ComEd the green light to study "Smart Grid" technologies further as part of the utility's proposal for a System Modernization Rider, and then to work collaboratively with other interested parties to consider smart grid issues. The collaborative effort will be followed by a formal docket filed with the ICC leading to adoption of smart grid goals, according to an ICC news release.
In a time of increasing household costs, ComEd recognizes that rate increases can be difficult for many customers. So it is encouraging customers in need to take advantage of the assistance and education programs currently available.
ComEd Rates/Page Two
As part of ComEd's CARE assistance programs, ComEd will distribute more than $18 million in assistance to customers most in need. Customers can apply for energy assistance programs through one of the local LIHEAP administering agencies. In Chicago and Cook County, customers can call 1-800-571-2332. More information is available at or by phone at 888-806-CARE (2273).
www.ComEd.com
Plus, all residential customers can take advantage of ComEd's many energy efficiency and demand response programs, which help customers conserve energy and save money on their bills. ComEd's AC Cycling Program, the interactive Online Energy Audit and its program to provide compact fluorescent light bulbs at significantly reduced prices are among the different ways that customers can save money by using less electricity. More information on these programs, as well as additional tips and tools, are available at www.ComEdCare.com.
Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) is a unit of Chicago-based Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC), one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately 5.4 million customers. ComEd provides service to approximately 3.8 million customers across Northern Illinois, or 70 percent of the state's population.


