FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20080717170517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 15, 2008, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) announced its comprehensive environmental plan that details an enterprise-wide approach and host of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelon's greenhouse gas emissions and that of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets. A copy of Exelon's 2020 Low Carbon Roadmap is available at Exelon's website, <outbind://50/www.exeloncorp.com> . The press release announcing Exelon's plan is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
www.exeloncorp.com
Exelon currently estimates that the cost to implement the potential greenhouse gas abatement initiatives described in this plan would be in excess of $10 billion through 2020. Approximately 80-85% of the estimated cost is associated with various potential initiatives to offer more low-carbon electricity in the marketplace such as nuclear uprates, natural-gas plants, and renewable generation. The remaining 15-20% is associated with potential initiatives to reduce or offset Exelon's Green House Gas (GHG) emissions and to help our customers reduce their GHG emissions. These estimates do not include the cost associated with a new nuclear plant if Exelon decides to build one. Actual expenditures will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project-by-project basis in accordance with Exelon's normal project evaluation standards as the plan is implemented.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Exelon Generation Company, LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company and PECO Energy Company (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 19; (2) Exelon's First Quarter 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
July 17, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Exelon Corporation today unveiled a comprehensive environmental plan that sets the standard for environmental action by a major U.S. energy utility. Called , the plan details an enterprise-wide approach and host of initiatives being pursued by the Exelon family of companies to reduce Exelon's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and those of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets.
CHICAGO (July 15, 2008)
Exelon 2020: A Low-Carbon Roadmap
"The science is overwhelming  climate change is happening now and human activity is the primary cause," said John W. Rowe, Exelon chairman, president and CEO. "As an early member of the U.S. EPA Climate Leaders Program, Exelon has already embraced a low-carbon strategy. Now, under Exelon 2020, we are committing to a much broader, deeper and sustained effort that will drive our business activities going forward."
Exelon 2020 sets a goal of reducing, offsetting or displacing more than 15 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions (in carbon dioxide-equivalent terms) per year by 2020. This is more than the company's current annual carbon footprint and is equivalent to taking nearly 3 million cars off American roads and highways.
Through Exelon 2020, Exelon is pursuing three broad strategies:
 
 
 
Appropriate public policies are crucial to the success of Exelon 2020The Exelon companies will continue to advocate for effective federal climate change legislation, workable competitive wholesale markets, federal loan guarantees for new nuclear capacity development, stricter energy efficiency standards, workable renewable resource mandates, R&D funding for renewables and standard practices for offsets.
.
"Without sound, substantial, appropriate and enabling public policy at the federal, regional and state levels, our industry and our society will not be able to address the climate change challenge as quickly, effectively and economically as is required," Rowe noted.
A sampling of programs under Exelon 2020 includes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The American utility industry accounts for about 40 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. Exelon was one of the first companies in the utility sector to publicly recognize the threat posed by global warming and is a member of the U.S. EPA's Climate Leaders Program. In 2005, the company made a voluntary commitment under the Climate Leaders Program to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions 8 percent from 2001 levels by the end of 2008 and is on track to exceed that goal. Exelon's environmental performance has secured its place on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index since 2006 and Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Disclosure Leadership Index since 2005. In 2007, Exelon was the top-ranked utility in the Leadership Index.
Exelon 2020: A Low Carbon Roadmap is available at
www.exeloncorp.com
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with nearly $19 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.4 million customers in northern Illinois and Pennsylvania and natural gas to 480,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 19; (2) Exelon's First Quarter 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (to be filed on April 24, 2008) in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Exelon Corporation, Exelon Generation Company, LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company, and PECO Energy Company (Companies). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this presentation. None of the Companies undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this news release.


