FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20081010101401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
  
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
On October 8, 2008, the Pennsylvania General Assembly passed House Bill No. 2200, which will become law upon the signature of the Governor of Pennsylvania.  This legislation requires that Pennsylvania electric utility companies meet energy-conservation and demand-reduction targets, beginning in 2011, to enhance the Commonwealths energy independence and enable programs to help consumers manage their energy use.  By July 1, 2009, PECO Energy Company (PECO) will file with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PAPUC) plans to meet these energy-efficiency and demand-response goals.  Also, PECO will be required to transition its electric customers to smart-meter technology over a fifteen-year period and to make available time-of-use rates and real-time price plans.  The legislation allows recovery of costs for each of these programs, subject to approval by the PAPUC.  Finally, House Bill No. 2200 provides guidelines associated with electricity procurement that support competitive, market-based procurement through auctions, requests for proposal or bilateral agreements with a prudent mix of spot market purchases, short-term contracts and long-term (more than four year) purchase contracts.
As of the conclusion of the Fall legislative session of the Pennsylvania Senate on October 8, 2008, no legislation was passed associated with the mitigation of the potential impacts of electricity price increases upon the ending of retail electric generation rate cap transition periods.  As previously disclosed, PECO continues to support the phase-in of expected higher electricity prices for its customers in 2011 through the plan it filed with the PUC in September 2008.
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and PECO (Registrants).  Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf.  No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelons 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 19; (2) Exelons Second Quarter 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 12; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 


