FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20080303164237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Exelon Corporation (Exelon) previously filed a Current Report on Form 8-K and issued a press release announcing that its board of directors on December 19, 2007 had approved a share repurchase program for up to $500 million of Exelon's outstanding stock, in addition to the repurchase of up to $1.25 billion authorized earlier in 2007.
After the close of markets on February 26, 2008, Exelon entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction with Bank of America, N.A. (Bank of America). Pursuant to the terms of the transaction, Exelon will purchase outstanding shares of its common stock from Bank of America for a total of $500 million. Bank of America will make an initial delivery of shares to Exelon shortly after the execution of the transaction, and may deliver additional shares to Exelon at or prior to completion of the transaction, which is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2008. Please refer to the agreement for the accelerated share repurchase transaction with Bank of America, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report, for a more complete description of the transaction.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 19 and (2) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Exelon. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. Exelon does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
March 3, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Dear Sir or Madam:
The purpose of this communication (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the transaction (the "") entered into between Bank of America, N.A. ("") and Exelon Corporation ("") on the Trade Date specified below. This Confirmation constitutes a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Transaction
Party A
Party B
This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Party A and Party B as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to an agreement in the form of the 1992 ISDA Master Agreement (the "") as if we had executed an agreement in such form (but without any Schedule) on the Trade Date of the Transaction. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of that agreement, or the Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction.
Agreement
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "") and the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the "", and together with the Equity Definitions, the ""), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ("") are incorporated into this Confirmation. References herein to "Transaction" shall be deemed references to "Swap Transaction" for purposes of the Swap Definitions. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and the Swap Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern. In the event of any inconsistency between either set of Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern. The Transaction shall constitute a Share Forward Transaction for the purposes of the Equity Definitions and shall be the only Transaction under the Agreement.
Equity Definitions
Swap Definitions
Definitions
ISDA
The terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THE CONFIRMATION HAVE BEEN ACQUIRED FOR INVESTMENT AND HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 OR ANY OTHER UNITED STATES FEDERAL OR STATE SECURITIES LAWS; SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF APPROPRIATE REGISTRATION UNDER SUCH SECURITIES LAWS OR EXCEPT IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM OR NOT SUBJECT TO THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH SECURITIES LAWS.
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by executing this Confirmation and returning such Confirmation, in its entirety, to us at facsimile number 212-230-8610 (United States of America), Attention: John Servidio.
 
Execution time will be furnished upon Party B's written request.
 


