FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20090423083819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
On April 23, 2009, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) announced via press release Exelon's results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release and related attachments is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Also attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the presentation slides to be used at the first quarter 2009 earnings conference call. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibits are provided under Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Exelon Generation Company, LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company and PECO Energy Company (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's First Quarter 2009 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (to be filed on April 23, 2009) in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
April 23, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
(April 23, 2009)  Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC) today announced that its first quarter 2009 consolidated earnings prepared in accordance with GAAP were $712 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, compared with earnings of $581 million, or $0.88 per share, in the first quarter of 2008.
CHICAGO
Exelon's adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the first quarter of 2009 were $797 million, or $1.20 per diluted share, compared with $620 million, or $0.93 per diluted share, for the same period in 2008.
"Our strong first quarter results are keeping 2009 earnings on track to meet our estimates in spite of the difficult economic environment," said John W. Rowe, Exelon's chairman and CEO. "We continue to drive these results through our operating performance. Our nuclear fleet operations continued industry-leading performance as the quarter's single refueling outage at the LaSalle station was completed in 22 days. Our fossil fleet had its best quarter since we began tracking commercial availability. ComEd announced a plan to reduce its 2009 capital and O&M spending by $200 million, and PECO reached a successful settlement related to energy procurement in Pennsylvania."
The increase in first quarter 2009 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings to $1.20 per share from $0.93 per share in first quarter 2008 was primarily due to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Higher first quarter 2009 earnings were partially offset by:
 
 
 
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the first quarter of 2009 do not include the following items (after-tax) that were included in reported GAAP earnings:
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the first quarter of 2008 did not include the following items (after-tax) that were included in reported GAAP earnings:
 
 
 
2009 Earnings Outlook
Exelon reaffirmed its guidance range for 2009 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings of $4.00 to $4.30 per share. Exelon expects adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the second quarter of 2009 to be in the range of $0.95 to $1.05 per share. Operating earnings guidance is based on the assumption of normal weather for the remainder of the year.
 
The outlook for 2009 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for Exelon and its subsidiaries excludes the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter and Recent Highlights
 
Exelon has filed notices and applications for approval in all federal and state jurisdictions where notices or approvals are required in connection with the transaction, and Exelon expects to complete the regulatory approval process during the second half of 2009.
On March 17, 2009, Exelon filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the 2009 annual meeting of the shareholders of NRG. Exelon is seeking approval for the following proposals: (1) election of four independent candidates to replace the four Class III directors of NRG whose terms expire at the 2009 annual meeting of NRG shareholders; (2) expansion of the size of the NRG board of directors to provide for a board of 19 directors divided into three approximately equal classes; (3) election of five independent candidates to fill five of the six newly created directorships on the NRG board; and (4) repeal of any amendments to the NRG bylaws adopted by the NRG board without the approval of the NRG shareholders after February 26, 2008. NRG's annual meeting has not yet been scheduled but is expected to take place by June 14, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under the settlement, PECO's revised default service provider program will have a 29-month term, beginning January 1, 2011 and ending May 31, 2013. PECO's default service customers will be divided into four procurement classes: a Residential class, a Small Commercial class (for non-residential customers with peak demand up to 100 kilowatts (kW)), a Medium Commercial class (for non-residential customers with peak demand of greater than 100 kW up to 500 kW), and a Large Commercial and Industrial class for non-residential customers with peak demand in excess of 500 kW.
For the Residential and Small and Medium Commercial classes, a portion of the load will be served through competitively procured contracts for load-following, full requirements default supply service for terms of two years or less. For the remaining portion of the Residential class load, PECO will competitively procure forward purchases of energy blocks and will balance the remaining load through sales and purchases of energy in PJM Interconnection, LLC's (PJM) competitive markets. For the remaining portion of the Small and Medium Commercial class load, as well as the Large Commercial and Industrial class load, PECO will competitively procure contracts for load-following, full requirements default supply service with the price for energy in each contract set to be the hourly price of the PJM day-ahead wholesale "spot" energy market during the term of delivery. In addition, PECO will offer Large Commercial and Industrial customers a fixed-price optional service during the first year of PECO's default service provider plan.
Also under the settlement, PECO will expand its low-income assistance initiatives. In addition, PECO's settlement includes a market rate deferral program under which certain customers can elect to phase in, with interest, any increases in 2011 post-electric generation rate cap expiration if they exceed 25 percent.
 
 
 
 
OPERATING COMPANY RESULTS
consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations.
Exelon Generation
First quarter 2009 net income was $528 million compared with $438 million in the first quarter of 2008. First quarter 2009 net income included (all after tax) mark-to-market gains of $112 million from economic hedging activities before the elimination of intercompany transactions, a charge of $135 million associated with the impairment of certain Texas plants (Handley and Mountain Creek), unrealized losses of $33 million related to NDT fund investments and a charge of $21 million for the costs associated with the 2007 Illinois electric rate settlement. First quarter 2008 net income included (all after tax) mark-to-market gains of $38 million from economic hedging activities, a charge of $47 million for the costs associated with the Illinois electric rate settlement and unrealized losses of $42 million related to NDT fund investments. Excluding the impact of these items, Generation's net income in the first quarter of 2009 increased $116 million compared with the same quarter last year, primarily due to:
 
 
 
 
Generation's average realized margin on all electric sales, including sales to affiliates and excluding trading activity, was $39.25 per MWh in the first quarter of 2009 compared with $38.77 per MWh in the first quarter of 2008.
consists of the electricity transmission and distribution operations in northern Illinois.
ComEd
ComEd recorded net income of $114 million in the first quarter of 2009, compared with net income of $41 million in the first quarter of 2008. First quarter 2008 net income included an after-tax charge of $3 million for the costs associated with the 2007 Illinois electric rate settlement. Excluding the impact of this item, ComEd's net income in the first quarter of 2009 increased $70 million from the same quarter last year primarily due to:
 
 
The increase in net income was partially offset by:
 
 
In the first quarter of 2009, heating degree-days in the ComEd service territory were down 2.8 percent relative to the same period in 2008, but were 3.5 percent above normal. ComEd's total retail kilowatt-hour (kWh) deliveries decreased by 3.9 percent quarter over quarter, with declines in deliveries to all customer classes including the impact of the leap year day in 2008. In addition, the number of residential customers being served in the ComEd region decreased 0.2 percent from the first quarter of 2008.
Weather-normalized retail kWh deliveries decreased by 3.6 percent from the first quarter of 2008, and after adjusting for the leap year day, weather-normalized retail kWh deliveries decreased by 2.5 percent. For ComEd, weather had an unfavorable after-tax impact of $2 million on first quarter 2009 earnings relative to 2008 and a favorable after-tax impact of $2 million relative to normal weather that was incorporated in earnings guidance.
consists of the electricity transmission and distribution operations and the retail natural gas distribution business in southeastern Pennsylvania.
PECO
PECO's net income in the first quarter of 2009 was $113 million, up from $97 million in the first quarter of 2008. This increase was primarily due to:
 
 
The increase in net income was partially offset by:
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2009, heating degree-days in the PECO service territory were up 9.1 percent from 2008 and were 1.0 percent above normal. Total retail kWh deliveries were up 0.2 percent from last year as the impact of favorable weather was mostly offset by a decline in deliveries to large commercial and industrial customers and the leap year day in 2008. In addition, the number of residential electric customers being served in the PECO region remained about level between the first quarter of 2009 and the same period in 2008.
Weather-normalized retail kWh deliveries decreased by 2.2 percent from the first quarter of 2008, primarily reflecting decreased large commercial and industrial deliveries and the impact of the leap year day in 2008. After adjusting for the leap year day, weather-normalized retail kWh deliveries decreased by 1.1 percent. For PECO, weather had a favorable after-tax impact of $15 million on first quarter 2009 earnings relative to 2008 and a favorable after-tax impact of $1 million relative to normal weather that was incorporated in earnings guidance.
 
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings, which generally exclude significant one-time charges or credits that are not normally associated with ongoing operations, mark-to-market adjustments from economic hedging activities and unrealized gains and losses from NDT fund investments, are provided as a supplement to results reported in accordance with GAAP. Management uses such adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings measures internally to evaluate the company's performance and manage its operations. Reconciliation of GAAP to adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for historical periods is attached. Additional earnings release attachments, which include the reconciliation on page 6, are posted on Exelon's Web site: and have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K on April 23, 2009.
www.exeloncorp.com
Exelon has scheduled a conference call for 11 AM ET (10 AM CT) on April 23, 2009. The call-in number in the U.S. and Canada is 800-690-3108, and the international call-in number is 973-935-8753. If requested, the conference ID number is 92382658. Media representatives are invited to participate on a listen-only basis. The call will be web-cast and archived on Exelon's Web site: . (Please select the Investor Relations page.)
Conference call information:
www.exeloncorp.com
Telephone replays will be available until May 7. The U.S. and Canada call-in number for replays is 800-642-1687, and the international call-in number is 706-645-9291. The conference ID number is 92382658.
 
 
Important Information
This release relates, in part, to the offer (the "Offer") by Exelon Corporation ("Exelon") through its direct wholly-owned subsidiary, Exelon Xchange Corporation ("Xchange"), to exchange each issued and outstanding share of common stock (the "NRG shares") of NRG Energy, Inc. ("NRG") for 0.485 of a share of Exelon common stock. This release is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an offer to exchange, or a solicitation of an offer to exchange, NRG shares, nor is it a substitute for the Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO or the Prospectus/Offer to Exchange included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Reg. No. 333-155278) (including the Letter of Transmittal and related documents and as amended from time to time, the "Exchange Offer Documents") previously filed by Exelon and Xchange with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The Offer is made only through the Exchange Offer Documents.
Investors and security holders are urged to read these documents and other relevant materials as they become available, because they will contain important information.
Exelon filed a preliminary proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the SEC on March 17, 2009 in connection with the solicitation of proxies (the "Preliminary NRG Meeting Proxy Statement") for the 2009 annual meeting of NRG stockholders (the "NRG Meeting"). Exelon expects to file a definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the SEC in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the
 
NRG Meeting and may file other proxy solicitation material in connection therewith (the "Definitive NRG Meeting Proxy Statement"). Exelon has also filed a preliminary proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the SEC in connection with its solicitation of proxies (the "Preliminary Exelon Meeting Proxy Statement") for a meeting of Exelon shareholders (the "Exelon Meeting") to be called in order to approve the issuance of shares of Exelon common stock pursuant to the Offer. Exelon expects to file a definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the SEC in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Exelon Meeting (the "Definitive Exelon Meeting Proxy Statement").
Investors and security holders are urged to read the Preliminary NRG Meeting Proxy Statement, the Definitive NRG Meeting Proxy Statement, the Preliminary Exelon Meeting Proxy Statement, and the Definitive Exelon Meeting Proxy Statement and other relevant materials as they become available, because they will contain important information.
Investors and security holders can obtain copies of the materials described above (and all other related documents filed with the SEC) at no charge on the SEC's website: www.sec.gov. Copies can also be obtained at no charge by directing a request for such materials to Innisfree M&A Incorporated, 501 Madison Avenue, 20th Floor, New York, New York 10022, toll free at 1-877-750-9501. Investors and security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Exelon, Xchange or NRG with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Exelon, Xchange and the individuals to be nominated by Exelon for election to NRG's Board of Directors will be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NRG stockholders for the NRG Meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof. Exelon and Xchange will be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Exelon shareholders for the Exelon Meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof. In addition, certain directors and executive officers of Exelon and Xchange may solicit proxies for the Exelon Meeting and the NRG Meeting. Information about Exelon and Exelon's directors and executive officers is available in Exelon's proxy statement, dated March 19, 2009, filed with the SEC in connection with Exelon's 2009 annual meeting of shareholders. Information about Xchange and Xchange's directors and executive officers is available in Schedule II to the Prospectus/Offer to Exchange. Information about any other participants will be included in the Definitive NRG Meeting Proxy Statement or the Definitive Exelon Meeting Proxy Statement, as applicable.
Forward Looking Statements
This release includes forward-looking statements. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made herein. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include Exelon's ability to achieve the synergies contemplated by the proposed transaction, Exelon's ability to promptly and effectively integrate the businesses of NRG and Exelon, and the timing to consummate the proposed transaction and obtain required regulatory approvals as well as those discussed in (1) the Exchange Offer Documents; (2) Exelon's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (3) Exelon's First Quarter 2009 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (to be filed on April 23, 2009) in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial
 
Statements: Note 13; and (4) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Exelon Corporation, Exelon Generation Company, LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company, and PECO Energy Company (Companies). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this release. The Companies do not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to their forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release, except as required by law.
Statements made in connection with the exchange offer are not subject to the safe harbor protections provided to forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
All information in this release concerning NRG, including its business, operations, and financial results, was obtained from public sources. While Exelon has no knowledge that any such information is inaccurate or incomplete, Exelon has not had the opportunity to verify any of that information.
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately 5.4 million customers and $19 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.4 million customers in Illinois and Pennsylvania and natural gas to approximately 485,000 customers in southeastern Pennsylvania. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



