FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20091105134646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On October 28, 2009, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission issued the order detailing their October 15, 2009 approval of PECO Energy Company's (PECO) Energy Efficiency and Conservation plan. The approved programs, totaling more than $330 million, will be available to customers beginning in March 2010 and are detailed in the press release which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation and PECO (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Third Quarter 2009 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 14; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
November 5, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
(November 4, 2009)  With just a few small steps, PECO customers can save more than $1 billion in energy costs thanks to a new energy efficiency suite of programs from PECO. The programs, totaling more than $330 million, approved by the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC), will be available to customers beginning in March 2010.
PHILADELPHIA
A residential customer who purchases five discounted energy efficient CFL bulbs  which use 75 percent less energy and last up to 10 times longer  and installs a discounted programmable thermostat  which saves energy by automatically raising and lowering temperatures  will save about $130 each year.
"We are helping our customers save money by making it easier . . . and cheaper . . . for them to use energy more efficiently," said Denis O'Brien, PECO president and CEO. "That's why in October we launched our CFL bulb program to bring millions of discounted CFL bulbs to local stores. We are thankful to the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission for issuing an order that will be so beneficial to our customers. The programs approved will go even further to help our customers understand, manage and reduce their energy use, and therefore reduce their energy costs. And, in addition to creating hundreds of local jobs, these programs also are a win-win because using energy more efficiently also provides significant environmental benefits."
Specifically, PECO's suite of energy saving programs will include:
Energy Efficiency
 
 
 
 
 
Energy Efficiency Programs Approval Release
Demand Reduction Programs
 
 
The suite of energy saving programs is part of the company's support of Pennsylvania's energy efficiency and demand response targets  Act 129. Act 129 requires all state electric utilities to reduce energy use by 1 percent by May 31, 2011 and 3 percent by May 31, 2013, and reduce energy demand during the 100 highest demand hours of the year by 4.5 percent by May 31, 2013. The programs will cost residential customers about $1.50 additional on their monthly energy bills.
PECO's programs also complement the company's other environmental efforts. Other environmental projects include the installation of a green roof and new energy efficient, LED Crown Lights on the company's Center City headquarters; the opening of PECO's first green building' in West Chester, recently awarded silver certification for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED); improvements to secure LEED certification for many other company work sites; the increased use of hybrid and biodiesel vehicles; and support for community environmental projects.
These efforts are a component of Exelon 2020: A Low-Carbon Roadmap, the comprehensive environmental strategy of PECO's parent company. Exelon 2020 sets the goal of reducing, offsetting or displacing more than 15 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions per year by 2020. This is more than the company's current annual carbon footprint and is equivalent to taking nearly 3 million cars off American roads and highways.
Based in Philadelphia, PECO is an electric and natural gas utility subsidiary of Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC). PECO serves 1.6 million electric and 485,000 natural gas customers in southeastern Pennsylvania and employs about 2,400 people in the region. PECO delivered 83.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 39.4 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity in 2008. Founded in 1881, PECO is one of the Greater Philadelphia Region's most active corporate citizens, providing leadership, volunteer and financial support to numerous arts and culture, education, environmental, economic development and community programs and organizations.
If you are a member of the media and would like to receive PECO news releases via e-mail please send your e-mail address to
PECO.Communication@exeloncorp.com


