FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20091202072034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Retirement of Generating Stations
On December 2, 2009, Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) notified PJM Interconnection LLC (PJM) of its intention to permanently retire Units 1 and 2 at Cromby Generating Station and Units 1 and 2 at Eddystone Generating Station, effective May 31, 2011. The decision to retire the units was approved by the Exelon Corporation (Exelon) Board of Directors on December 1, 2009. The Exelon Board of Directors determined that the four 50-year old units, all located in suburban Philadelphia, are no longer economic to operate and are unnecessary to meet shrinking demand for electricity in the region. PJM must review whether the retirement of the units creates reliability issues.
The shutdowns will be accompanied by a workforce reduction of approximately 280 positions, which will occur incrementally from early 2010 to late 2011. About 220 of the positions are located at the two power stations. The remainder will come from Generation's headquarters support group at Kennett Square, Pennsylvania. Generation is exploring various steps to ease the impact on workers, including redeploying them to open positions elsewhere within Generation or other Exelon subsidiaries, buyouts and other possibilities.
The amounts in the chart below represent a pre-tax estimate of the total expenses associated with each major cost activity as a result of the shutdown activities. The final amounts and timing of charges will ultimately depend upon the specific employees severed and execution of the related closure activities.
 
 
Cromby Generating Station is located on the Schuylkill River in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania. Cromby Unit 1 and Unit 2 were placed in service in 1954 and 1955, respectively. Unit 1 is a 144-megawatt (MW) coal-fired unit and Unit 2 is a 201-MW unit that operates on either natural gas or No. 6 fuel oil. As a result of these permanent retirements, Cromby Station will be shutdown.
Eddystone Generating Station is located on the Delaware River in Eddystone, Pennsylvania. Unit 1 and Unit 2 were placed in service in 1960, with a combined capacity of 588 megawatts that operate on coal. Two 380-MW peaking units that run on either natural gas or oil and four oil-burning units that produce a total of 60 MW will continue operations.
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
On December 2, 2009, Exelon announced via press release its intention to permanently retire Units 1 and 2 at Cromby Generating Station and Units 1 and 2 at Eddystone Generating Station, effective May 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Also attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the presentation slides to be used at the investor conference call.
Exelon has scheduled a conference call for 10:30 AM ET (9:30 AM CT) on December 2, 2009. The call-in number in the U.S. and Canada is 800-690-3108, and the international call-in number is 973-935-8753. If requested, the conference ID number is 44018052. Media representatives are invited to participate on a listen-only basis. The call will be web-cast and archived on Exelon's Web site: . (Please select the Investor Relations page.)
Conference call information:
www.exeloncorp.com
Telephone replays will be available until December 16. The U.S. and Canada call-in number for replays is 800-642-1687, and the international call-in number is 706-645-9291. The conference ID number is 44018052.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon and Generation (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Third Quarter 2009 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 14; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
December 2, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
(December 2, 2009)  Exelon Power announced today that it has notified PJM Interconnection of its intention to permanently retire Units 1 and 2 at Cromby Generating Station and Units 1 and 2 at Eddystone Generating Station, effective May 31, 2011. Following these retirements, Eddystone Station will remain in service, operating six units capable of generating 820 megawatts. Cromby Station will close when its units permanently retire.
KENNETT SQUARE, PA
In the notification to PJM, Exelon Power states that the four units, all in suburban Philadelphia, are no longer economic to operate and are not required to meet shrinking demand for electricity in the region. PJM must review whether the retirement of the units creates reliability issues.
"Decreased power demand, over supply of natural gas and increasing operating costs, has led Exelon Power to retire these units," said Doyle Beneby, senior vice president of Exelon Power.
"Only the most efficient and lowest cost units can consistently compete in the wholesale markets. Unfortunately, these aging units are no longer efficient enough to compete with newer resources," said Beneby. "These units faced a difficult year economically in 2009, and we expect the forces that contributed to the difficulties to continue for an extended period of time. Those forces include increasing capital expenditures and decreased demand for electricity.
"The employees at both stations are to be applauded for operating these units at distinguished levels over many years, however, this could not offset an overwhelming decline in economic factors," said Beneby.
 
The retirements will affect approximately 280 positions between the end of first quarter 2010 and late 2011. About 220 of the positions are located at the two power stations, the remainder at the company's Kennett Square, Pa., headquarters. Beneby said the company is aggressively exploring various steps to ease the impact on workers, including redeployment to open positions elsewhere within Exelon Generation Company or other Exelon subsidiaries, buyouts and other possibilities. "Our plan to continue to operate the units for another 18 months gives us some flexibility to allow employees to fill other positions within Exelon," said Beneby.
Cromby Generating Station is on the Schuylkill River in Phoenixville, Pa. Cromby Unit 1 and Unit 2 were placed in service in 1954 and 1955, respectively. Unit 1 is a 144-megawatt coal-fired unit and Unit 2 is a 201-megawatt unit that operates on either natural gas or No. 6 fuel oil. As a result of these retirements, Cromby Station will be shut down.
Eddystone Generating Station is on the Delaware River in Eddystone, Pa., Unit 1 is a 279-megawatt coal-fired unit and Unit 2 is a 309-megawatt coal-fired unit, both were placed in service in 1960. Two 380 megawatt peaking units that run on either natural gas or oil and four oil-burning units that produce a total of 60 megawatts will continue to be available for operation.
Exelon Power will continue to operate 4,200 megawatts of natural gas, oil, hydro, and landfill generation within the PJM Interconnection.
Throughout the retirement process, Exelon will continue to honor its regulatory, legal and community obligations, including continued adherence to all applicable environmental and safety regulations.



