FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20090701170436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On June 30, 2009, Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) disclosed that it would seek an Early Site Permit for its proposed Victoria, Texas nuclear plant site, rather than a combined construction and operating license.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation and Generation (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's First Quarter 2009 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
July 1, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(June 30, 2009)  Exelon will seek an Early Site Permit (ESP) for its proposed Victoria, Texas, nuclear plant site rather than a combined construction and operating license, the company announced today.
VICTORIA, Texas
The change in licensing strategy allows Exelon to continue with some aspects of site evaluation and approvals while deferring a decision on construction and technology choices for up to 20 years.
The decision was brought about by uncertainties in the domestic economy, the limited availability of federal loan guarantees and related economic considerations. Some visible site activity may continue, but planned major pre-construction work such as road upgrades and site preparations will be deferred.
"We are not leaving Victoria, but we are ramping back our schedule for decision-making," said Exelon's Senior Vice President for New Business Development Thomas S. O'Neill. "We have made many friends in Victoria, and the site south of the city is a good location for a new plant. But today's economic realities compel us to defer any decision on construction for a while."
Under the ESP process, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission undertakes an evaluation of site safety, environmental impact and emergency planning regarding a proposed nuclear plant. By issuing an ESP for a specific site, the NRC is certifying that the site satisfies the criteria in those evaluation areas. If the company later chooses to pursue construction, the ESP becomes part of the combined construction and operating license application, which requires a separate review and approval by the NRC.
Exelon has informed the NRC that the company will not submit a revision to the combined construction and operating license application submitted in September 2008, but will pursue an ESP instead. Much of the research and data gathering already performed for that application will be used for the ESP application submittal.
The ESP submittal, scheduled for late this year, or early 2010, would be Exelon's second. In 2007, Exelon received the first Early Site Permit ever issued by the NRC, for an existing plant site in DeWitt County, Illinois.
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately $19 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.4 million customers in northern Illinois and southeastern Pennsylvania and natural gas to approximately 485,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.


