FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20090120062528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 13, 2009, Paul Dabbar, managing director at JPMorgan and a financial advisor to Exelon Corporation, contacted Jamie Welch, managing director at Credit Suisse and a financial advisor to NRG Energy, Inc. Mr. Dabbar commented on the number of NRG shares tendered into Exelon's exchange offer at the initial expiration date on January 6, 2009, and recommended that representatives of Exelon and NRG hold discussions. On January 19, John Rowe, chairman and CEO of Exelon, and William Von Hoene, executive vice president and general counsel for Exelon, met in Washington, DC, with David Crane, president and CEO of NRG, and Drew Murphy, executive vice president and general counsel for NRG. During that meeting, Mr. Rowe expressed his view that the exchange ratio initially proposed by Exelon represented a full and fair price for NRG shareholders, with a substantial premium and upside opportunity, and stated that Exelon would not increase its offer without an opportunity to conduct due diligence designed to verify assumed values and identify additional value. Mr. Crane expressed his view that due diligence would not move the price very much and was not willing to allow Exelon to engage in due diligence. Mr. Rowe agreed that a price movement, if any, as a result of due diligence would be small. Mr. Crane said that NRG was focused on "market discovery" regarding options for NRG as a result of interest expressed by other companies. In response to a question raised by Mr. Crane, Mr. Rowe confirmed Exelon's commitment to investment grade credit ratings for the combined company. The meeting ended without any agreement or arrangement concerning further discussions, due diligence or other exchange of information. Exelon remains committed to its proposed acquisition of NRG and will continue to pursue its efforts to engage NRG in a constructive dialog.
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Exelon and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the "Registrants"). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been provided by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
Important Additional Information
This communication relates, in part, to the offer (the "Offer") by Exelon Corporation ("Exelon") through its direct wholly-owned subsidiary, Exelon Xchange Corporation ("Xchange"), to exchange each issued and outstanding share of common stock (the "NRG shares") of NRG Energy, Inc. ("NRG") for 0.485 of a share of Exelon common stock. This communication is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an offer to exchange, or a solicitation of an offer to exchange, NRG shares, nor is it a substitute for the Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO or the Prospectus/Offer to Exchange included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Reg. No. 333-155278) (including the Letter of Transmittal and related documents and as amended from time to time, the "Exchange Offer Documents") previously filed by Exelon and Xchange with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The Offer is made only through the Exchange Offer Documents.
Investors and security holders are urged to read these documents and other relevant materials as they become available, because they will contain important information.
Exelon expects to file a proxy statement on Schedule 14A and other relevant documents with the SEC in connection with the solicitation of proxies (the "NRG Meeting Proxy Statement") for the 2009 annual meeting of NRG stockholders (the "NRG Meeting"). Exelon will also file a proxy statement on Schedule 14A and other relevant documents with the SEC in connection with its solicitation of proxies for a meeting of Exelon shareholders (the "Exelon Meeting") to be called in order to approve the issuance of shares of Exelon common stock pursuant to the Offer (the "Exelon Meeting Proxy Statement").
Investors and security holders are urged to read the NRG Meeting Proxy Statement and the Exelon Meeting Proxy Statement and other relevant materials as they become available, because they will contain important information.
Investors and security holders can obtain copies of the materials described above (and all other related documents filed with the SEC) at no charge on the SEC's website: www.sec.gov. Copies can also be obtained at no charge by directing a request for such materials to Innisfree M&A Incorporated, 501 Madison Avenue, 20th Floor, New York, New York 10022, toll free at 1-877-750-9501. Investors and security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Exelon, Xchange or NRG with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Exelon, Xchange and the individuals to be nominated by Exelon for election to NRG's Board of Directors will be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NRG stockholders for the NRG Meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof. Exelon and Xchange will be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Exelon shareholders for the Exelon Meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof. In addition, certain directors and executive officers of Exelon and Xchange may solicit proxies for the Exelon Meeting and the NRG Meeting. Information about Exelon and Exelon's directors and executive officers is available in Exelon's proxy statement, dated March 20, 2008, filed with the SEC in connection with Exelon's 2008 annual meeting of shareholders. Information about Xchange and Xchange's directors and executive officers is available in Schedule II to the Prospectus/Offer to Exchange. Information about any other participants will be included in the NRG Meeting Proxy Statement or the Exelon Meeting Proxy Statement, as applicable.
Forward Looking Statements
This communication includes forward-looking statements. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made herein. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include Exelon's ability to achieve the synergies contemplated by the proposed transaction, Exelon's ability to promptly and effectively integrate the businesses of NRG and Exelon, and the timing to consummate the proposed transaction and obtain required regulatory approvals as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's prospectus/offer to exchange that is contained in the Registration Statement on Form S-4, Reg. No. 333-155278, that Exelon has filed with the SEC in connection with the Offer; (2) Exelon's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 19; (3) Exelon's Third Quarter 2008 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 12; and (4) other factors discussed in Exelon's filings with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this communication. Exelon does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this communication, except as required by law.
Statements made in connection with the Offer are not subject to the safe harbor protections provided to forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
All information in this communication concerning NRG, including its business, operations, and financial results, was obtained from public sources. While Exelon has no knowledge that any such information is inaccurate or incomplete, Exelon has not had the opportunity to verify any of that information.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


