FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20100506061114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 5, 2010, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) issued a second statement concerning discussions that ComEd, Exelon Generation Company LLC and Exelon Corporation have had with state leaders about critical energy supply and electric infrastructure issues, as well as broader economic concerns facing Illinois. A copy of the statement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation, Exelon Generation Company, LLC and Commonwealth Edison Company (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's First Quarter 2010 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 12; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
May 6, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Statement from ComEd regarding Public/Private Partnership:
May 5, 2010, 5 p.m. Central Time
As has been reported, ComEd and Exelon have been in discussions with state leaders about the many energy, infrastructure and general economic challenges that face our state. In the spirit of that public/private partnership, ComEd and Exelon put together a draft proposal  for the state's consideration  to address these challenges.
It would have provided funds to a state in turmoil, provided more than 2,000 jobs, invested more than a billion dollars in grid modernization and infrastructure improvements. It also would have provided customers with rate stability while preserving the right to choose market-based rates. No customer would have been required to pay above market rates.
In last few days, however, it has become clear that there is not enough support in Springfield to continue pursuing this course. We acknowledge and respect the concerns many public officials have and will move on.
As a proud Illinois-based company, employing thousands of Illinoisans, ComEd remains committed be being a positive contributor to the well-being and economic revival of our state.


