FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20100409161339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 9, 2010, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) made its 2009 Fact Book available to investors by posting it on the Investors homepage on Exelon's website at . The 2009 Exelon Fact Book is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
www.exeloncorp.com
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Exelon Generation Company, LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company and PECO Energy Company (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; and (2) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
April 9, 2010
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Sustainable Performance
Exelon Corporation 2009 Fact Book
To the Financial Community,
The Exelon Fact Book is intended to provide historical financial and operating information to assist in the analysis of Exelon and its operating companies. Please refer to the SEC filings of Exelon and its subsidiaries, including the annual Form 10-K and quarterly Form 10-Q, for more comprehensive and current financial statements and information.
For more information about Exelon and to send e-mail inquiries, visit our website at www.exeloncorp.com.
 
Information in this Fact Book is current as of April 1, 2010 unless otherwise noted.
This publication includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; and (2) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by Exelon Corporation, Exelon Generation Company LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company, and PECO Energy Company (Companies). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this publication. None of the Companies undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this publication.
 
 
Exelon at a Glance
Company Profile
 
Exelon Corporation, headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S. with approximately 5.4 million customers and $17 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic.
Our Vision
 
Exelon will be the best group of electric generation and electric and gas delivery companies in the United States  providing superior value for our customers, employees, investors and the communities we serve.
Our Goals
 
 
Our Values
 
Safety  for our employees, our customers and our communities
Integrity  the highest ethical standards in what we say and what we do
Diversity  in ethnicity, gender, experience and thought
Respect  trust and teamwork through open and honest communication
Accountability  for our commitments, actions and results
Continuous improvement  stretch goals and measured results
 
 
(a) Dividends are subject to declaration by the board of directors each quarter.
(b) Based on common stock price of $48.87 on December 31, 2009.
 
2
Company Overview
 
Operating Companies
 
 
Our Strategic Direction
 
 
 
3
State Regulation
Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC)
(www.icc.illinois.gov)
The ICC has five full-time members, each appointed by the Governor (Pat Quinn, Democrat; term began in January 2009 and ends in January 2011) and confirmed by the Illinois State Senate. The Commissioners serve for five-year, staggered terms. Under Illinois law, no more than three Commissioners may belong to the same political party. The Chairman is designated by the Governor.
 
(a) No action has been taken on the appointments.
Previous ComEd Electric Distribution Rate Cases
 
(a) Reflects ComEd surrebuttal testimony filed on April 21, 2008. Original rate request included a $361 million revenue increase.
(b) ComEd and other parties appealed the rate order; the timing of a court ruling is uncertain.
 
(a) Primarily includes taxes and environmental cost recovery and energy efficiency riders.
(b) Rates for services were bundled prior to 2007.
 
4
State Regulation
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC)
(www.puc.state.pa.us)
The PUC has five full-time members, each appointed by the Governor (Ed Rendell, Democrat; term began in January 2003 and ends in January 2011) and confirmed by the Pennsylvania State Senate. The Commissioners serve for five-year, staggered terms. Under Pennsylvania law, no more than three Commissioners may belong to the same political party as the Governor. The Chairman is designated by the Governor, and the Vice Chairman is selected by the PUC commissioners.
 
(a) Reappointment not yet confirmed by Senate.
PECO Electric Distribution Rate Case
 
(a) Per original filing.
(b) PUC approved a joint settlement; no allowed return was specified. Increase was effective January 1, 2009.
PECO Energy  Electric Transition Plan
The PUC authorized recovery in PECO's 1998 settlement of $5.3 billion of stranded costs, or competitive transition charges (CTC) regulatory asset, with a return on the unamortized balance of 10.75%, through 2010. The PUC authorized amortization of the regulatory asset through 2010.
 
PECO Energy  Schedule of System Average Electric Rates
Transmission rates are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. The CTC rate is subject to annual reconciliation for actual retail sales. Any CTC adjustment is offset by an Energy and Capacity adjustment in a like amount. Rates increased from the original PUC settlement to reflect the roll-in of increased gross receipts tax and Universal Service Fund charge.
 
 
5
Federal Regulation
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
(www.ferc.gov)
The FERC has five full-time members, each appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. The Commissioners serve for five-year, staggered terms. No more than three Commissioners may belong to the same political party. The Chairman is designated by the President.
 
ComEd Electric Transmission Rate Cases
 
 
On January 18, 2008, FERC issued an order on rehearing that approved incentive rate treatment for West Loop Phase II project, including a 1.50% ROE adder.
 
6
Exelon Corporation  Financial and Operating Highlights
For the Years ended December 31,
 
(a) One GWh is the equivalent of one million kilowatt hours (kWh).
Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings Per Share to GAAP
 
Note: PPA = power purchase agreement
 
7
Exelon Corporation  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
8
Exelon Corporation  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
(a) Results reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
9
Exelon Generation Company  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating
Earnings to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
10
Commonwealth Edison Company  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
11
PECO Energy Company  Reconciliation of Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
to GAAP Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)
 
 
 
12
Exelon and Operating Companies  Capital Structure and Capitalization Ratios
 
 
(a) Rating outlook for PECO is negative; rating outlook for Exelon, Generation and ComEd is stable.
(b) Rating outlook for all entities is stable.
 
13
Exelon Corporate  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of December 31, 2009
 
 
Exelon Generation  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of December 31, 2009
 
 
Note: Amounts may not add due to rounding.
 
14
ComEd  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of December 31, 2009
 
 
Note: Amounts may not add due to rounding.
 
15
PECO Energy  Long-Term Debt Outstanding as of December 31, 2009
 
(a) PETT = PECO Energy Transition Trust
 
Exelon and Operating Companies  Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper as of December 31, 2009
 
 
 
16
Exelon Service Area and Selected Generating Assets*
 
 
17
Exelon Generation  Generating Resources
Sources of Electric Supply
(a) Reflects all power purchased under long-term contracts.
Long-Term Contracts
(At December 31, 2009)
ISO = Independent System Operator
NUG = Non-utility generator
 
 
18
Exelon Generation  Nuclear Generating Capacity
Exelon Nuclear Fleet
(a
)
 
Average in-service time = 29 years
Note: Fleet also includes 4 shutdown units: Peach Bottom 1, Dresden 1, Zion 1 and 2.
Nuclear Operating Data
 
Refueling Outages  2009
 Conducted 9 refueling outages
(a)
 Average refueling outage duration: 29 days
(a)
 U.S. average refueling duration: ~43 days (excludes Exelon)
Net Generation  2009
 131,303 GWhs, excluding Salem
 139,670 GWhs, including Salem
Refueling Outages (including Salem)
2008: 12 actual
2009: 10 actual
2010: 10 planned
2011: 11 planned
2012: 11 planned
2013: 9 planned
(a) Excludes Salem; Salem Unit 1 and Unit 2 capacity factors in 2009 were 99.1% and 92.0%, respectively.
(b) vs. industry average of 88.5%.
Source for industry averages: Exelon Nuclear 2010 Benchmarking Report
 
19
Exelon Generation  Total Electric Generating Capacity
Owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2009:
Base-load units are plants that normally operate to take all or part of the minimum continuous load of a system, and consequently produce electricity at an essentially constant rate. Intermediate units are plants that normally operate to take load of a system during the daytime higher load hours, and consequently produce electricity by cycling on and off daily. Peaking units consist of low-efficiency, quick response steam units, gas turbines, diesels, and pumped-storage hydroelectric equipment normally used during the maximum load periods.
 
 
20
Exelon Generation  Total Electric Generating Supply
(continued)
Owned net electric generating capacity by station at December 31, 2009:
 
 
 
21
Fossil Emissions and Reduction Technology Summary
Owned generation as of December 31, 2009. Table does not include station auxiliary
equipment or peaking combustion turbines.
 
 
22
Fossil Emissions and Reduction Technology Summary
 
                *Indicates emissions less than 50 tons.
 
23
Exelon Generation  Annual Electric Supply and Sales Statistics
 
 
Financial Swap Agreement with ComEd
 
 
 
24
Exelon Generation  Electric Supply and Sales Statistics by Quarter
 
 
 
25
ComEd
Electric Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail
Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity from ComEd. Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electricity from an alternative electric generation supplier. Other revenues primarily include transmission revenues from PJM, late payment charges and mutual assistance program revenues.
 
(a) Total activity of less than $1 million.
 
26
ComEd
Customers at Year End
 
 
27
PECO
Electric Sales Statistics and Revenue Detail
Full service reflects deliveries to customers purchasing electricity directly from PECO. Delivery only service reflects customers electing to receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Other revenue includes transmission revenue from PJM and other wholesale energy sales.
 
 
28
PECO
Customers at Year End
 
 
29
PECO
Gas Sales Statistics, Revenue and Customer Detail
 
 
30


