FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20100825105152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
  
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
Kenneth W. Cornew, Senior Vice President of Exelon Corporation (Exelon), has established a structured, prearranged stock trading plan to sell shares in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Mr. Cornews trading plan covers the sale of 2,500 shares.  The stock trading plan is being established to enable Mr. Cornew to diversify a portion of his holdings in excess of his stock ownership requirements.
Exelons stock ownership guidelines require officers in the position of Senior Vice President to own the lesser of either a fixed number of shares or share equivalents (excluding stock options) or a variable number of shares based on a multiple of two times his base salary, calculated annually.  Mr. Cornew holds stock and stock equivalents (excluding options) amounting to about 203% of this guideline.  Mr. Cornew owns over 15,500 shares and over 7,000 performance shares.   He also owns 15,000 shares of restricted stock and holds options to acquire over 63,500 shares.
Since February 2005 a dozen of Exelons senior officers have also entered into one or more similar pre-arranged stock trading plans to sell a limited number of shares of Exelon common stock in order to diversify their assets.  Under Exelons stock ownership guidelines, the chairman and chief executive officer should own a fixed number of shares of Exelon stock or stock equivalents (excluding stock options) based on a multiple of five times his base salary, executive vice presidents should own a fixed number of shares of Exelon stock or stock equivalents (excluding stock options) based on a multiple of three times their base salary and senior vice presidents should own a fixed number of shares based on a multiple of two times their base salary.  Each of the senior officers who entered into a stock trading pl an held stock and stock equivalents (excluding stock options) exceeding the applicable stock ownership guideline, and each of those officers will continue to meet the applicable stock ownership guideline after the completion of the sales contemplated by the stock trading plans.
 
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelons 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelons Second Quarter 2010 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Part 1, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of O perations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 12; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. Exelon does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


