FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20101216130745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events
On December 16, 2010, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PAPUC) approved PECO Energy Company's (PECO) settlements that were filed on August 31, 2010 regarding proposed increases in electric and natural gas distribution rates.
The approved electric distribution rate case settlement is designed to produce an additional $225 million in annual revenue, which is approximately 71% of the $316 million originally requested by PECO.
The approved natural gas distribution rate case settlement is designed to produce an additional $20 million in annual revenue, which is approximately 46% of the $44 million originally requested by PECO.
The new electric and natural gas distribution rates will be effective on January 1, 2011.
A copy of the PECO press release concerning the PAPUC approval of the settlements is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation and PECO (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Third Quarter 2010 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Part 1, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
December 16, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(December 16, 2010)  Today the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC) approved PECO's settlements with all interested parties regarding the increase in electric and natural gas delivery rates for customers beginning Jan, 1, 2011. As a result of this and the company's final electricity purchases to serve customers, residential electric customer bills are expected to increase on average about 5 percent, or about $5 a month, beginning in January. Overall bills for PECO residential natural gas customers will increase on average about 1 percent, or about $1 a month. Customers may be able to save money by purchasing their electricity and natural gas from a competitive supplier if supplier prices are lower than PECO's Price to Compare.
PHILADELPHIA
"This has been a year of change for our customers," said PECO President and CEO Denis O'Brien. "We are moving from capped rates to market prices for electricity and we are changing our delivery rates for the first time in decades. Today's PUC approval marks the final stage in this transition. We are pleased that we were able to reduce the overall impact to our customers as much as possible and that we have the tools and programs in place to help customers offset the impact of these changes."
Customer bills are made up of basically two parts  the electricity / natural gas used by customers and the cost to deliver that electricity / natural gas to the customer. The electricity / natural gas used by customers  or the commodity charges  make up about two-thirds of a total bill. These costs are passed along directly to customers at exactly the price that PECO pays. These costs change quarterly, as market prices change. PECO will continue to update its Price to Compare quarterly to help customers evaluate offers from competitive suppliers.
The delivery charge, or the portion of the bill that covers PECO's costs to deliver electricity / natural gas, is about one-third of the bill. These charges are set by PECO and approved by the PUC.
As part of Pennsylvania Electric Choice, customers can shop for electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Customer can shop with a competitive supplier at any time  before or after Jan, 1, 2011  and may save money if supplier prices are lower than PECO's Price to Compare.
To shop:
 
 
 
PUC Approval Release
 
 
Customers also can purchase their natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier. To learn more about shopping with a competitive natural gas supplier visit .
http://www.oca.state.pa.us/
Whether customers are purchasing their electricity / natural gas from a competitive electric generation supplier or from PECO, PECO will continue to safely deliver electricity and natural gas, provide billing and customer support, and respond to outages and other emergencies for ALL customers.
Customers also can offset the impact of these changes by using less energy. Through PECO Smart Ideas, the company's full suite of energy-saving and demand response programs:
 
 
 
 
 
Just by replacing five bulbs with CFLs and raising your thermostat two degrees during the summer, you can save more than $8 a month  more than offsetting the expected increase. To learn more about saving energy and money with PECO Smart Ideas visit www.peco.com/SmartIdeas.
PECO also offers payment options, like Budget Billing, to help customers manage their bills. Budget Billing divides energy costs evenly throughout the year. And, programs also are available to help customers who may be struggling to pay their energy bills. Through our Universal Services programs, we assist more than 130,000 low-income customers each year with reduced rates, free energy-efficiency improvements and Federal Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program funding.
To learn more about all of these changes visit .
www.pecoanswers.com
Based in Philadelphia, PECO is an electric and natural gas utility subsidiary of Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC). PECO serves 1.6 million electric and 485,000 natural gas customers in southeastern Pennsylvania and employs about 2,400 people in the region. PECO delivered 83.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 39.4 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity in 2008. Founded in 1881, PECO is one of the Greater Philadelphia Region's most active corporate citizens, providing leadership, volunteer and financial support to numerous arts and culture, education, environmental, economic development and community programs and organizations.
If you are a member of the media and would like to receive PECO news releases via e-mail please send your e-mail address to
PECO.Communication@exeloncorp.com
 


