FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20100325101637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
 
Retirement of Named Executive Officer
On March 25, 2010, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) announced that Elizabeth A. Moler, its Executive Vice President of Government Affairs and Public Policy, intends to retire from the company effective July 1, 2010. She will remain as an adviser to the company through the end of 2010. A copy of the press release announcing her retirement and other management changes is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; and (2) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. Exelon does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
March 25, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
(March 25, 2010)  Exelon Corporation today announced several changes to its Washington, D.C., office, including the retirement of Elizabeth A. "Betsy" Moler.
Washington, D.C.
Moler, currently Exelon executive vice president of government affairs and public policy, intends to retire from the company effective July 1, 2010. Moler has led Exelon's Washington, D.C., office since January 2000. Prior to joining the company, she served as the U.S. Deputy Secretary of Energy and the Chair of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). She will remain an advisor to the company through the end of the year.
"I truly appreciate the decade of leadership Betsy has provided to Exelon. Her contributions, both to Exelon and the energy industry, have been invaluable. While it saddens me to see her leave, I understand how much she's looking forward to this transition and the chance to spend more time with her family. I will miss Betsy as a colleague, and will always consider her a friend," said Exelon chairman and CEO John W. Rowe.
Exelon also announced that David C. Brown has been promoted to senior vice president, federal government affairs and public policy, leading the company's Washington, D.C., office. Brown has led Exelon's federal legislative affairs in Washington since 2000. Prior to that, he served in a similar leadership capacity for PECO from 1990-2000, prior to the merger with Unicom that created Exelon. Upon Moler's retirement, Brown will report to William A. Von Hoene, Jr., executive vice president of finance and legal.
In addition, Joseph Dominguez, currently senior vice president of communications and public affairs, will then become Exelon's senior vice president of federal regulatory affairs, also reporting to Von Hoene. In Dominguez's new capacity, he will lead Exelon's federal regulatory affairs, communications and public policy, as well as Exelon Generation's state regulatory affairs. Reporting to Dominguez will be Steve Naumann, vice president of wholesale market development and Karen Hill, vice president and director of federal regulatory affairs and policy. James Firth, senior vice president of communications, public policy and state government affairs, will continue to report to Dominguez. Dominguez will also continue in his role as general counsel of Exelon Generation, reporting in that capacity to Andrea Zopp, Exelon executive vice president and general counsel.
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately $17 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.4 million customers in northern Illinois and southeastern Pennsylvania and natural gas to approximately 485,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.
 


