FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20100302162441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
Retirement of Generating Stations
On December 2, 2009, Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) notified PJM Interconnection LLC (PJM) of its intention to permanently retire three coal-fired generating units and one oil/gas-fired generating unit, effective May 31, 2011. The units to be retired are Cromby Generating Station Unit 1 and Unit 2 and Eddystone Generating Station Unit 1 and Unit 2.
Generation notified PJM that it would continue operations beyond its desired deactivation date of May 31, 2011 to accommodate construction of transmission system reliability upgrades, provided that Exelon receives the required environmental permits and adequate cost-based compensation. On March 2, 2010, PJM determined that transmission reliability upgrades will need to be completed to alleviate reliability impacts in order to allow Generation to retire the units on the following schedule:
 
The amounts in the chart below represent a pre-tax estimate of the total expenses associated with each major cost activity as a result of the shutdown activities according to the revised deactivation schedule. The final amounts and timing of charges will ultimately depend upon actual employee reductions and implementation of the related closure activities.
 
 
PJM indicated that, after May 31, 2011, the units will run for reliability purposes only. Based upon its assumption that it will receive adequate cost-based compensation for operating the two units beyond May 31, 2011, Generation does not anticipate the expected savings associated with the shutdown of these units to differ materially from that disclosed in the exhibits to the Form 8-K dated December 2, 2009.
The decision to retire the units was approved by the Exelon Corporation (Exelon) Board of Directors on December 1, 2009. The Exelon Board of Directors determined that the four 50-year old units, all located in suburban Philadelphia, are no longer economic to operate and are unnecessary to meet shrinking demand for electricity in the region.
Cromby Generating Station is located on the Schuylkill River in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania. Cromby Unit 1 and Unit 2 were placed in service in 1954 and 1955, respectively. Unit 1 is a 144-megawatt (MW) coal-fired unit and Unit 2 is a 201-MW unit that operates on either natural gas or No. 6 fuel oil. As a result of these permanent retirements, Cromby Station will be shut down.
Eddystone Generating Station is located on the Delaware River in Eddystone, Pennsylvania. Unit 1 and Unit 2, which operate on coal, were placed in service in 1960, with a combined capacity of 588 megawatts. Two 380-MW peaking units that run on either natural gas or oil and four oil-burning units that produce a total of 60 MW will continue operations.
Section 7  Regulation FD
 
On March 2, 2010, Exelon announced via press release that it would delay the permanent retirement of Cromby Unit 2 until May 31, 2012 and Eddystone Generating Station Unit 2 until December 31, 2013 in order to accommodate the construction of transmission system reliability upgrades. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon and Generation (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; and (2) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
March 2, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Valencia McClure
Exelon Power Communications
610-765-6926 (ofc.)
484-319-5691 (cell)
 Exelon Power will delay the retirement of two aging fossil-fuel power generating units in suburban Philadelphia to provide time for the transmission owner to complete state-of-the-art upgrades to the area's transmission system.
KENNETT SQUARE, PA (March 2, 2010)
PJM Interconnection, the regional transmission organization, today confirmed that the 2011 retirements of two of the units would not impact reliable electric service but said the other two units should remain available while transmission system upgrades are completed.
In response, Exelon Power will keep Cromby Generating Station Unit 2 in operation until May 31, 2012, and Eddystone Generating Station Unit 2 in operation until Dec. 31, 2013, to support system reliability.
The continued operation of the units is contingent on maintaining environmental permits for the units and receiving other regulatory approvals, which the company hopes to obtain this year.
"We're committed to maintaining system reliability and are willing to work with PJM and regulators to operate the units for as long as they are needed," said Doyle Beneby, senior vice president of Exelon Power. "With the necessary permits and regulatory approvals in place, these units will be ready to run when needed."
Eddystone Unit 1 and Cromby Unit 1 will retire as scheduled on May 31, 2011.
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.4 million customers in northern Illinois and Pennsylvania and natural gas to approximately 485,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.
 


