FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20100505061335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7  Regulation FD.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 4, 2010, Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) issued a statement concerning discussions that ComEd, Exelon Generation Company, LLC and Exelon Corporation have had with state leaders about critical energy supply and electric infrastructure issues, as well as broader economic concerns facing Illinois. A copy of the statement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation, Exelon Generation Company, LLC and Commonwealth Edison Company (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's First Quarter 2010 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 12; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
May 5, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
ComEd Statement regarding Proposed Public/Private Partnership
Last Updated: May 4, 2010, 6:45 p.m.
Over the last few weeks, ComEd and Exelon have been in discussions with state leaders about a public/private partnership to address critical energy supply and electric infrastructure issues, as well as broader economic concerns facing Illinois. To this end, ComEd and Exelon have put together a proposal, for the state's consideration, that would cap electricity rates for four years, support jobs through a large capital investment in the state's power grid, and provide critically needed funding to the state budget.
Specifically, the proposal would:
 
 
 
 
 
As stated in our proposal, expenditure of such resources by ComEd requires a mechanism for fair recovery of its actual and reasonable costs. We have proposed a process that mirrors the way the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) sets ComEd's transmission rates. It would preserve traditional prudence review, stakeholder intervention and ultimate ICC oversight.
We have shared this proposal for a public-private partnership with the elected leaders in Springfield and believe it to be mutually beneficial. The decision to proceed or not lies - as it should - with the elected officials who represent the people of Illinois.


