FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20100401171436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
Federal healthcare legislation was recently signed into law. The healthcare legislation includes a provision that reduces the deductibility, for federal income tax purposes, of retiree healthcare costs to the extent an employer's postretirement healthcare plan receives federal subsidies that provide retiree prescription drug benefits equivalent to Medicare prescription drug benefits. Although this change does not take effect immediately, Exelon Corporation (Exelon), Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation), Commonwealth Edison Company (ComEd) and PECO Energy Company (PECO) (collectively, the Registrants) are required to recognize the full accounting impact in their financial statements in the period in which the legislation is signed. As a result, in the first quarter of 2010, Exelon expects to record total non-cash after-tax charges of approximately $65 million for income tax expense to establish deferred tax liabilities. Of this total, Generation, ComEd and PECO expect to record charges of $24 million, $11 million and $9 million, respectively. These charges will be excluded from the Registrants' 2010 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings.
The reduction of these income tax deductions is also estimated to increase Exelon's total annual income tax expense by approximately $10 million to $15 million. Of this total, Generation's, ComEd's and PECO's annual income tax expense is estimated to increase $5 million to $8 million, $3 million to $4 million and $1 million to $2 million, respectively.
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by the Registrants. Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (1) the Registrants' 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; and (2) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
April 1, 2010


