FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20110316163432.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On March 16, 2011, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation) released a Fact Sheet summarizing the principal features and structures in Generation's nuclear power plants that protect those plants from extreme environmental hazards, such as earthquakes and floods and summarizing some of the training and operating procedures that enable Generation to respond effectively to such events. A copy of the Fact Sheet is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon and Generation (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; and (2) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
March 16, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Fact Sheet
Exelon's nuclear power plants are designed to withstand extreme environmental hazards, including floods and earthquakes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tsunamis are not a threat to Exelon Nuclear plants.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exelon plants are hardened against floods
 
 
 
 
All U.S. nuclear plants are based on a "defense-in-depth" design, which means multiple physical barriers and multiple backup safety systems ensure safe operations even in extreme environments.
 
 
 
All Exelon Nuclear plants are able to safely shut down and keep the fuel cooled even without electricity from the grid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All U.S. nuclear plants undergo frequent scenario drills to ensure the proper function of the redundant safety protocols.
 
Beyond the physical features, Exelon plants have conservative operating procedures that place nuclear and public safety above all other factors.
 


