FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20111222104254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
x
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 8  Other Events.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Constellation Energy Group Inc. (Constellation) have received the required consents from lenders under Constellation's credit facilities for the merger of Constellation and Exelon. The arrangements with the lenders include amendments to Constellation's existing credit facilities, effective on the closing date of the merger of Constellation with a subsidiary of Exelon (Merger), which will permit Exelon and Constellation to complete a series of internal corporate organizational restructuring transactions following the Merger, including (1) the transfer of RF HoldCo LLC (the holding company for Baltimore Gas and Electric Company) to Exelon Energy Delivery Company LLC; (2) the upstream merger of Constellation with and into Exelon; and (3) the transfer of Constellation's subsidiaries engaged in the generation and wholesale and retail marketing businesses to Exelon Generation Company LLC (Generation). Exelon currently expects to complete these transactions immediately following the Merger. As a result of these transactions, Exelon (parent company) will become responsible for Constellation's (parent company) bank credit facilities, publicly held debt securities, guarantees, and other financial obligations. Conforming amendments to the existing credit facilities of Exelon and Generation will become effective at the Merger closing. The effectiveness of the amendments is subject to customary closing conditions.
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Exelon Generation Company, LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company and PECO Energy Company (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this communication constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions, or events identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding benefits of the proposed merger of Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation), integration plans and expected synergies, the expected timing of completion of the transaction, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth. These statements are based on the current expectations of management of Exelon and Constellation, as applicable. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this communication regarding the proposed merger. For example, (1) the companies may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals required for the merger, or required regulatory approvals may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or cause the companies to abandon the merger; (2) conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied; (3) an unsolicited offer of another company to acquire assets or capital stock of Exelon or Constellation could interfere with the merger; (4) problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of the companies, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; (5) the combined company may be unable to achieve cost-cutting synergies or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; (6) the merger may involve unexpected costs, unexpected liabilities or unexpected delays, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from the companies' expectations; (7) the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect; (8) the businesses of the companies may
suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the merger; (9) the companies may not realize the values expected to be obtained for properties expected or required to be divested; (10) the industry may be subject to future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and (11) the companies may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of Exelon, Constellation or the combined company. Discussions of some of these other important factors and assumptions are contained in Exelon's and Constellation's respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, including: (1) Exelon's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2011 in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Part 1, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; (3) Constellation's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12; and (4) Constellation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2011 in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and ITEM 5. Other Information, (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, . These risks, as well as other risks associated with the proposed merger, are more fully discussed in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Exelon filed with the SEC and that the SEC declared effective on October 11, 2011 in connection with the proposed merger. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this communication may not occur. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this communication. Neither Exelon nor Constellation undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this communication.
Commitments and Contingencies
Additional Information and Where to Find it
In connection with the proposed merger between Exelon and Constellation, Exelon filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that included the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus. The Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on October 11, 2011. Exelon and Constellation mailed the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective security holders on or about October 12, 2011. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Exelon, Constellation and the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus may be obtained free of charge from Exelon Corporation, Investor Relations, 10 South Dearborn Street, P.O. Box 805398, Chicago, Illinois 60680-5398, or from Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Investor Relations, 100 Constellation Way, Suite 600C, Baltimore, MD 21202.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
December 22, 2011


