FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20110526133639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events
On May 24, 2011, the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) issued an order in Commonwealth Edison Company's (ComEd) 2010 electric delivery services rate case. ComEd requested an increase in the annual revenue requirement to allow ComEd to recover the costs of substantial investments made in its distribution system since its last rate filing in 2007. The requested increase also reflected increased costs, most notably pension and other postretirement employee benefits, since ComEd's rates were last determined.
The ICC order, which will become effective June 1, 2011, approved a $143 million increase to ComEd's annual delivery services revenue requirement, which is approximately 42% of the $343 million requested by ComEd in its reply brief on February 23, 2011. The approved rate of return on common equity is 10.50%. As a result of the order, ComEd anticipates recording a one-time net benefit of approximately $58 million that includes the reestablishment of previously expensed plant balances, the establishment of new regulatory assets, and the reversal of certain reserves. ComEd is evaluating the results of the order and may request a rehearing from the ICC on specific issues. ComEd cannot predict whether any other parties may file appeals, or the results of any such appeals.
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation and ComEd (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's First Quarter 2011 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Part 1, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 12; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
May 26, 2011


