FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20110520170939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On May 20, 2011, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation) filed an application for approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) of the proposed merger announced by the companies on April 28, 2011. A copy of the FERC filing is available on the merger website, , and will also be available on the FERC website, www.ferc.gov.
www.exelonconstellationmerger.com
In addition, Exelon and Constellation have made other filings in support of their proposed merger, including with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the New York State Public Service Commission and the Public Utility Commission of Texas. The companies will also be filing with the Maryland Public Service Commission and other regulatory bodies.
A copy of the press release concerning the regulatory filings is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Exelon Generation Company, LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company and PECO Energy Company (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this communication constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions, or events identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding benefits of the proposed merger, integration plans and expected synergies, the expected timing of completion of the transaction, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth. These statements are based on the current expectations of management of Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation), as applicable. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this communication. For example, (1) the companies may be unable to obtain shareholder approvals required for the merger; (2) the companies may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals required for the merger, or required regulatory approvals may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or cause the companies to abandon the merger; (3) conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied; (4) an unsolicited offer of another company to acquire assets or capital stock of Exelon or Constellation could interfere with the merger; (5) problems may arise in
successfully integrating the businesses of the companies, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; (6) the combined company may be unable to achieve cost-cutting synergies or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; (7) the merger may involve unexpected costs, unexpected liabilities or unexpected delays, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from the companies' expectations; (8) the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect; (9) the businesses of the companies may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the merger; (10) the companies may not realize the values expected to be obtained for properties expected or required to be divested; (11) the industry may be subject to future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and (12) the companies may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of the combined company. Discussions of some of these other important factors and assumptions are contained in Exelon's and Constellation's respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, including: (1) Exelon's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2011 in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 12; (3) Constellation's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12; and (4) Constellation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2011 in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 5. Other Information, (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, . These risks, as well as other risks associated with the proposed merger, will be more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Exelon will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this communication may not occur. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this communication. Neither Exelon nor Constellation undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this communication.
Commitments and Contingencies
Additional Information and Where to Find it
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. Exelon intends to file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents to be mailed by Exelon and Constellation to their respective security holders in connection with the proposed merger of Exelon and Constellation. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Exelon, Constellation and the proposed merger. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus (when it becomes available) may be obtained free of charge from Exelon Corporation, Investor Relations, 10 South Dearborn Street, P.O. Box 805398, Chicago, Illinois 60680-5398, or from Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Investor Relations, 100 Constellation Way, Suite 600C, Baltimore, MD 21202. Investors and security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Exelon, or Constellation, with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Merger Solicitation
Exelon, Constellation, and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Exelon's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by Exelon on March 24, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of shareholders, and information regarding Constellation's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by Constellation on April 15, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of shareholders. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
May 20, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
(May 20, 2011)  Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC) and Constellation Energy (NYSE: CEG) today filed an application for approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) of the proposed merger announced by the companies on April 28.
CHICAGO AND BALTIMORE
The filing with FERC demonstrates the companies' strong commitment to ensuring that the merger will not cause market power or competitive concerns. In the filing, the companies commit that the combined company will, within 180 days after the closing of the transaction, enter into contracts to divest three Constellation Energy generating stations totaling 2,648 megawatts (MW) of generating capacity.
The facilities are located in the PJM market, which is the only market where there is a material overlap of generation owned by both companies. The companies would close on the plant divestitures no later than 30 days after the receipt of all regulatory approvals associated with them.
The generating facilities planned for divestiture are:
 
 
 
In addition, the combined company commits to sell 500 MW of baseload energy under contracts that will extend until 2015. The combined company has proposed to make these sales due to a short-term marketing agreement that gives Constellation an 85 percent share of the output of Constellation Energy Nuclear Group LLC units from 2012 through 2014. Beginning in 2015, the share of the output is reduced to 50.01%, which reduces the amount of generation in PJM controlled by the combined company to levels below FERC limits.
By undertaking these actions, Exelon and Constellation believe they will eliminate any potential market power concerns and ensure that their combined ownership of generation capacity in all markets served by the companies will not negatively impact competition.
In addition to their filing with FERC, Exelon and Constellation have made other filings in support of their proposed merger, including with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the New York State Public Service Commission and the Public Utility Commission of Texas. The companies will also be filing with the Maryland Public Service Commission.
The companies plan to seek shareholder approval for the transaction in the third quarter of 2011.
The Exelon-Constellation merger will combine Exelon's environmentally-advantaged generation fleet with Constellation Energy's industry-leading customer-facing businesses. It will benefit customers, investors, the City of Baltimore and the State of Maryland, as described in the April 28 merger announcement.
The companies anticipate closing the merger in the first quarter of 2012.
About Exelon Corporation
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with more than $18 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.4 million customers in northern Illinois and southeastern Pennsylvania and natural gas to approximately 490,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC. Learn more online: www.exeloncorp.com.
About Constellation Energy
Constellation Energy (www.constellation.com) is a leading competitive supplier of power, natural gas and energy products and services for homes and businesses across the continental United States. It owns a diversified fleet of generating units, totaling approximately 12,000 megawatts of generating capacity, and is a leading advocate for clean, environmentally sustainable energy sources, such as solar power and nuclear energy. The company delivers electricity and natural gas through the Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE), its regulated utility in Central Maryland. A FORTUNE 500 company headquartered in Baltimore, Constellation Energy had revenues of $14.3 billion in 2010.
For the latest information about the Exelon-Constellation merger, visit the merger website: www.exelonconstellationmerger.com
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this communication constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions, or events identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding benefits of the proposed merger, integration plans and expected synergies, the expected timing of completion of the transaction, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth. These statements are based on the current expectations of management of Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation), as applicable. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this
 
communication. For example, (1) the companies may be unable to obtain shareholder approvals required for the merger; (2) the companies may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals required for the merger, or required regulatory approvals may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or cause the companies to abandon the merger; (3) conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied; (4) an unsolicited offer of another company to acquire assets or capital stock of Exelon or Constellation could interfere with the merger; (5) problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of the companies, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; (6) the combined company may be unable to achieve cost-cutting synergies or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; (7) the merger may involve unexpected costs, unexpected liabilities or unexpected delays, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from the companies' expectations; (8) the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect; (9) the businesses of the companies may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the merger; (10) the companies may not realize the values expected to be obtained for properties expected or required to be divested; (11) the industry may be subject to future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and (12) the companies may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of the combined company. Discussions of some of these other important factors and assumptions are contained in Exelon's and Constellation's respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, including: (1) Exelon's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2011 in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Part 1, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 12; (3) Constellation's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8; and (4) Constellation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2011 in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 5. Other Information, (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12. These risks, as well as other risks associated with the proposed merger, will be more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that will be included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Exelon will file with the SEC in connection with the proposed merger. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this communication may not occur. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this communication. Neither Exelon nor Constellation undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this communication.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, or a solicitation of any vote or approval, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. Exelon intends to file with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant documents to be mailed by Exelon and Constellation to their respective security holders in connection with the proposed merger of Exelon and Constellation. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS
 
WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Exelon, Constellation and the proposed merger. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain these materials (when they are available) and other documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the joint proxy statement/prospectus (when it becomes available) may be obtained free of charge from Exelon Corporation, Investor Relations, 10 South Dearborn Street, P.O. Box 805398, Chicago, Illinois 60680-5398, or from Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Investor Relations, 100 Constellation Way, Suite 600C, Baltimore, MD 21202. Investors and security holders may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Exelon, or Constellation, with the SEC, at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
Participants in the Merger Solicitation
Exelon, Constellation, and their respective directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Exelon's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by Exelon on March 24, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of shareholders, and information regarding Constellation's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by Constellation on April 15, 2011 in connection with its 2011 annual meeting of shareholders. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
 
 


