FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20111026082547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Section 7  Regulation FD
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 26, 2011, Exelon Corporation (Exelon) announced via press release its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the press release and related attachments is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Also attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the presentation slides to be used at the third quarter 2011 earnings conference call. This Form 8-K and the attached exhibits are provided under Items 2.02, 7.01 and 9.01 of Form 8-K and are furnished to, but not filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Exelon has scheduled the conference call for 11:00 AM ET (10:00 AM CT) on October 26, 2011. The call-in number in the U.S. and Canada is 800-690-3108, and the international call-in number is 973-935-8753. If requested, the conference ID number is 15656530. Media representatives are invited to participate on a listen-only basis. The call will be web-cast and archived on Exelon's Web site: www.exeloncorp.com. (Please select the Investors page.)
Telephone replays will be available until November 9. The U.S. and Canada call-in number for replays is 855-859-2056, and the international call-in number is 404-537-3406. The conference ID number is 15656530
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
  Exhibits
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon, Exelon Generation Company, LLC, Commonwealth Edison Company and PECO Energy Company (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this communication constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions, or events identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding benefits of the proposed merger of Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation), integration plans and expected synergies, the expected timing of completion of the transaction, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth. These statements are based on the current expectations of management of Exelon and Constellation, as applicable. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this communication regarding the proposed merger. For example, (1) the companies may be unable to obtain shareholder approvals required for the merger; (2) the companies may be unable to obtain
regulatory approvals required for the merger, or required regulatory approvals may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or cause the companies to abandon the merger; (3) conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied; (4) an unsolicited offer of another company to acquire assets or capital stock of Exelon or Constellation could interfere with the merger; (5) problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of the companies, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; (6) the combined company may be unable to achieve cost-cutting synergies or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; (7) the merger may involve unexpected costs, unexpected liabilities or unexpected delays, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from the companies' expectations; (8) the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect; (9) the businesses of the companies may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the merger; (10) the companies may not realize the values expected to be obtained for properties expected or required to be divested; (11) the industry may be subject to future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and (12) the companies may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of Exelon, Constellation or the combined company. Discussions of some of these other important factors and assumptions are contained in Exelon's and Constellation's respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, including: (1) Exelon's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Third Quarter 2011 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (to be filed on October 26, 2011) in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Part 1, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; (3) Constellation's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12; and (4) Constellation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2011 in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and ITEM 5. Other Information, (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, . These risks, as well as other risks associated with the proposed merger, are more fully discussed in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Exelon filed with the SEC and that the SEC declared effective on October 11, 2011 in connection with the proposed merger. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this communication may not occur. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this communication. Neither Exelon nor Constellation undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this communication.
Commitments and Contingencies
Additional Information and Where to Find it
In connection with the proposed merger between Exelon and Constellation, Exelon filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that included the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus. The Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on October 11, 2011. Exelon and Constellation mailed the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective security holders on or about October 12, 2011. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Exelon, Constellation and the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus may be obtained free of charge from Exelon Corporation, Investor Relations, 10 South Dearborn Street, P.O. Box 805398, Chicago, Illinois 60680-5398, or from
Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Investor Relations, 100 Constellation Way, Suite 600C, Baltimore, MD 21202.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
October 26, 2011
 

 
(October 26, 2011)  Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC) announced third quarter 2011 consolidated earnings as follows:
CHICAGO
 
"We delivered strong quarterly earnings, which were just above our guidance range, despite intense summer storms in both the ComEd and PECO service territories," said John W. Rowe, chairman and chief executive officer. "Exelon Generation's performance was exceptional, producing a nuclear fleet capacity factor of 95.8 percent and above normal output from our Texas plants to meet much higher demand due to hot weather. Based on our results through September, we are able to reaffirm our full-year earnings guidance range for 2011 of $4.05 to 4.25 per share."
Third Quarter Operating Results
As shown in the table above, Exelon's adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings increased to $1.12 per share in the third quarter of 2011 from $1.11 per share in the third quarter of 2010. Earnings in 2011 primarily reflected the following favorable factors:
 
 
 
These factors were mostly offset by:
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the third quarter of 2011 do not include the following items (after tax) that were included in reported GAAP earnings:
 
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the third quarter of 2010 did not include the following items (after tax) that were included in reported GAAP earnings:
 
 
2011 Earnings Outlook
Exelon reaffimed its guidance range for 2011 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings of $4.05 to $4.25 per share. Operating earnings guidance is based on the assumption of normal weather for the balance of the year.
The outlook for 2011 adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for Exelon and its subsidiaries excludes the following items:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter and Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OPERATING COMPANY RESULTS
consists of owned and contracted electric generating facilities, wholesale energy marketing operations and competitive retail sales operations.
Generation
Third quarter 2011 net income was $386 million compared with $605 million in the third quarter of 2010. Third quarter 2011 net income included (all after tax) unrealized losses of $76 million related to NDT fund investments, mark-to-market losses of $55 million from economic hedging activities, a non-cash gain, net of costs, of $23 million related to the acquisition of Wolf Hollow, costs of $18 million primarily related to an increase in Generation's decommissioning obligation for spent nuclear fuel at Zion, certain costs of $5 million associated with the acquisition of AVSR 1, certain costs of $3 million associated with the proposed merger with Constellation and net costs of $2 million associated with the retirement of certain fossil generating units. Third quarter 2010 net income included (all after tax) mark-to-market gains of $99 million from economic hedging activities, unrealized gains of $60 million related to NDT fund investments, a charge of $35 million associated with the impairment of certain emission allowances, costs of $14 million associated with the retirement of certain fossil generating units, a charge of $3 million for costs associated with the 2007 Illinois electric rate settlement and a charge of $1 million for certain costs associated with the acquisition of Exelon Wind.
Excluding the effects of these items, Generation's net income in the third quarter of 2011 increased $23 million compared with the same quarter in 2010. This increase primarily reflected the effect of higher energy margins due to the expiration of the PPA with PECO and favorable market and portfolio conditions in the South, partially offset by:
 
 
 
 
Generation's average realized margin on all electric sales, including sales to affiliates and excluding trading activity, was $39.19 per MWh in the third quarter of 2011 compared with $35.11 per MWh in the third quarter of 2010.
consists of the electricity transmission and distribution operations in northern Illinois.
ComEd
ComEd recorded net income of $112 million in the third quarter of 2011, compared with net income of $121 million in the third quarter of 2010. Third quarter net income in 2011 included certain after-tax costs of $1 million associated with the proposed merger with Constellation. Excluding the effects of this item, ComEd's net income in the third quarter of 2011 was down $8 million from the same quarter in 2010, primarily reflecting increased storm-related costs partially offset by the impact of new electric distribution rates effective June 1, 2011.
 
In the third quarter of 2011, cooling degree-days in the ComEd service territory were down 8.1 percent relative to the same period in 2010 and were 25.8 percent above normal. Total retail electric deliveries decreased 2.9 percent quarter over quarter.
Weather-normalized retail electric deliveries decreased 1.4 percent in the third quarter of 2011 relative to 2010, reflecting a decrease in deliveries to residential and small commercial and industrial customers. For ComEd, weather had an unfavorable after-tax effect of $6 million on third quarter 2011 earnings relative to 2010 and a favorable after-tax effect of $15 million relative to normal weather that is incorporated in Exelon's earnings guidance.
consists of the electricity transmission and distribution operations and the retail natural gas distribution business in southeastern Pennsylvania.
PECO
PECO's net income in the third quarter of 2011 was $105 million, down from $127 million in the third quarter of 2010. Third quarter net income in 2011 included an after-tax benefit of $2 million reflecting a decrease in PECO's asset retirement obligations and certain after-tax costs of $1 million associated with the proposed merger with Constellation. Excluding the effects of these items, PECO's net income in the third quarter of 2011 was down $23 million from the same quarter in 2010, primarily reflecting:
 
 
Partially offsetting these unfavorable items were:
 
 
In the third quarter of 2011, cooling degree-days in the PECO service territory were down 8.5 percent from 2010 and were 18.1 percent above normal. Total retail electric deliveries were down 2.0 percent from last year. On the retail gas side, deliveries in the third quarter of 2011 were up 4.0 percent from the third quarter of 2010.
Weather-normalized retail electric deliveries were about flat in the third quarter of 2011 relative to 2010, as a decline in both small and large commercial and industrial deliveries was mostly offset by increased deliveries to residential customers. Weather-normalized retail gas deliveries were up 7.2 percent in the third quarter of 2011. For PECO, weather had an unfavorable after-tax effect of $7 million on third quarter 2011 earnings relative to 2010 and a favorable after-tax effect of $12 million relative to normal weather that is incorporated in Exelon's earnings guidance.
Adjusted (non-GAAP) Operating Earnings
Adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings, which generally exclude significant one-time charges or credits that are not normally associated with ongoing operations, mark-to-market adjustments from economic hedging activities and unrealized gains and losses from NDT fund investments, are provided as a supplement to results reported in accordance with GAAP. Management uses such adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings measures internally to evaluate the company's performance and manage its operations. Reconciliation of GAAP to adjusted (non-GAAP) operating earnings for historical
 
periods is attached. Additional earnings release attachments, which include the reconciliation on pages 7 and 8, are posted on Exelon's Web site: and have been furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K on October 26, 2011.
www.exeloncorp.com
Exelon has scheduled a conference call for 11:00 AM ET (10:00 AM CT) on October 26, 2011. The call-in number in the U.S. and Canada is 800-690-3108, and the international call-in number is 973-935-8753. If requested, the conference ID number is 15656530. Media representatives are invited to participate on a listen-only basis. The call will be web-cast and archived on Exelon's Web site: . (Please select the Investors page.)
Conference call information:
www.exeloncorp.com
Telephone replays will be available until November 9. The U.S. and Canada call-in number for replays is 855-859-2056, and the international call-in number is 404-537-3406. The conference ID number is 15656530.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this communication constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions, or events identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding benefits of the proposed merger of Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation), integration plans and expected synergies, the expected timing of completion of the transaction, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth. These statements are based on the current expectations of management of Exelon and Constellation, as applicable. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this communication regarding the proposed merger. For example, (1) the companies may be unable to obtain shareholder approvals required for the merger; (2) the companies may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals required for the merger, or required regulatory approvals may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or cause the companies to abandon the merger; (3) conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied; (4) an unsolicited offer of another company to acquire assets or capital stock of Exelon or Constellation could interfere with the merger; (5) problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of the companies, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; (6) the combined company may be unable to achieve cost-cutting synergies or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; (7) the merger may involve unexpected costs, unexpected liabilities or unexpected delays, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from the companies' expectations; (8) the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect; (9) the businesses of the companies may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the merger; (10) the companies may not realize the values expected to be obtained for properties expected or required to be divested; (11) the industry may be subject to future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and (12) the companies may be adversely affected by other
 
economic, business, and/or competitive factors. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of Exelon, Constellation or the combined company. Discussions of some of these other important factors and assumptions are contained in Exelon's and Constellation's respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, including: (1) Exelon's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2011 (to be filed on October 26, 2011) in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Part 1, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; (3) Constellation's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12; and (4) Constellation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2011 in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and ITEM 5. Other Information, (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, . These risks, as well as other risks associated with the proposed merger, are more fully discussed in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Exelon filed with the SEC and that the SEC declared effective on October 11, 2011 in connection with the proposed merger. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this communication may not occur. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this communication. Neither Exelon nor Constellation undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this communication.
Commitments and Contingencies
Additional Information and Where to Find it
In connection with the proposed merger between Exelon and Constellation, Exelon filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that included the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus. The Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on October 11, 2011. Exelon and Constellation mailed the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective security holders on or about October 12, 2011. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Exelon, Constellation and the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus may be obtained free of charge from Exelon Corporation, Investor Relations, 10 South Dearborn Street, P.O. Box 805398, Chicago, Illinois 60680-5398, or from Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Investor Relations, 100 Constellation Way, Suite 600C, Baltimore, MD 21202.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



