FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20120117172353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On January 17, 2012, PECO, a subsidiary of Exelon Corporation (Exelon), announced via press release that it has filed with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission its plan to purchase electricity for customers not purchasing their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier for the period of June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The news release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon Corporation and PECO (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Exelon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) Part 1, Financial Information, ITEM 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 13; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
January 17, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
(January 17, 2012)  On Jan. 13, 2012 PECO filed its Default Service Plan for approval with the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (PUC). The plan outlines how PECO will purchase electricity for customers not purchasing the electricity they use from a competitive electric generation supplier from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan also includes additional robust programs to continue to support and advance the competitive energy market in Pennsylvania.
PHILADELPHIA
"Currently more than 400,000 PECO customers are purchasing the electricity they use from a competitive supplier," said Denis O'Brien, president and CEO of PECO. "This represents about 56 percent of the electricity we deliver. Electric Choice has been a success in our area, and our customers are saving money. And with this plan, we will do even more to help more customers benefit from a competitive electric market."
As a Default Service Provider, PECO purchases electricity for non-shopping customers and passes those costs along to customers with no markup. To continue to ensure competitive purchases and reasonable prices for residential customers the company proposes to:
 
 
 
The company also proposes several new programs to continue its support of retail competition. Specifically, PECO will:
 
 
 
Public hearings are scheduled in spring of 2012 with PUC ruling expected in mid-October 2012. To view the filing or for more information, visit and click on Rate Information.
www.peco.com/KNOW
Based in Philadelphia, PECO is an electric and natural gas utility subsidiary of Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC). PECO serves 1.6 million electric and 490,000 natural gas customers in southeastern Pennsylvania and employs about 2,400 people in the region. PECO delivered 87.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 39.5 billion kilowatt-hours-hours of electricity in 2010. Founded in 1881, PECO is one of the Greater Philadelphia Region's most active corporate citizens, providing leadership, volunteer and financial support to numerous arts and culture, education, environmental, economic development and community programs and organizations.
If you are a member of the media and would like to receive PECO news releases via e-mail please send your e-mail address to
PECO.Communication@exeloncorp.com


