FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20120523170623.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Exelon Corporation (Exelon) has received notification of an unsolicited mini-tender offer by TRC Capital Corporation (TRC) to purchase up to 3 million shares of Exelon common stock, or approximately 0.35 percent of the company's outstanding common stock, at a price of $36.55 per share. The offer price is approximately 4.42 percent below the closing price on May 17, 2012, the approximate date of commencement of the offer. Exelon does not endorse TRC's mini-tender offer and recommends that shareholders do not tender their shares. A copy of the press release concerning the mini-tender offer that Exelon issued on May 23, 2012 is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those factors discussed herein, as well as the items discussed in (1) Exelon's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Constellation Energy Group's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12; (3) the Exelon's First Quarter 2012 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in (a) Part II, Other Information, ITEM 1A. Risk Factors and (b) Part I, Financial Information, ITEM 1. Financial Statements: Note 15; and (4) other factors discussed in filings with the SEC by Exelon. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. Exelon does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
May 23, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC) has received notification of an unsolicited mini-tender offer by TRC Capital Corporation ("TRC") to purchase up to 3 million shares of Exelon common stock, or approximately 0.35 percent of the company's outstanding common stock, at a price of $36.55 per share. The offer price is approximately 4.42 percent below the closing price on May 17, 2012, the approximate date of commencement of the offer.
CHICAGO (May 23, 2012)
Exelon does not endorse TRC's mini-tender offer and recommends that shareholders do not tender their shares. Exelon is not associated with TRC or this unsolicited offer.
TRC has made similar, unsolicited mini-tender offers for shares of other publicly-traded companies. Mini-tender offers are designed to seek to acquire less than 5 percent of a company's outstanding shares, thereby avoiding many disclosure and procedural requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). As a result, mini-tender offers do not provide investors with the same level of protections as provided by larger tender offers under United States securities laws.
The SEC has cautioned investors about mini-tender offers, noting that "[s]ome bidders make mini-tender offers at below-market prices, hoping that they will catch investors off guard if the investors do not compare the offer price to the current market price." The SEC's Investor Tips regarding mini-tender offers may be found on the SEC's website at .
http://www.sec.gov/investor/pubs/minitend.htm
Exelon encourages brokers and dealers, as well as other market participants, to review the SEC's letter regarding broker-dealer mini-tender offer dissemination and disclosure at .
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/marketreg/minitenders/sia072401.htm
Exelon requests that a copy of this press release be included with all distributions of materials relating to TRC's offer.
Exelon Corporation (NYSE:EXC) is the nation's leading competitive energy provider, with approximately $33 billion in annual revenues. Headquartered in Chicago, Exelon has operations and business activities in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Canada. Exelon is the largest competitive U.S. power generator, with approximately 35,000 megawatts of owned capacity comprising one of the nation's cleanest and lowest-cost power generation fleets. The company's Constellation business unit provides energy products and services to approximately 100,000 business and public sector customers and approximately 1 million residential customers. Exelon's utilities deliver electricity and natural gas to more than 6.6 million customers in central Maryland (BGE), northern Illinois (ComEd) and southeastern Pennsylvania (PECO). Learn more at: www.exeloncorp.com.


