FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20120314153240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 12, 2012, Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation ("Exelon"), completed the previously announced merger contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 28, 2011 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Exelon, Constellation Energy Group, Inc., a Maryland corporation ("Constellation"), and Bolt Acquisition Corporation, formerly a Maryland corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon ("Merger Sub"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub was merged with and into Constellation (the "Initial Merger"), and Constellation became a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, with Constellation continuing as the surviving corporation. For more information about the Initial Merger, please see Item 2.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Following completion of the Initial Merger, Exelon and Constellation completed a series of internal corporate organizational restructuring transactions. On March 12, 2012, shortly following completion of the Initial Merger, Exelon and Constellation entered into and consummated an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Upstream Merger Agreement"), pursuant to which Constellation merged with and into Exelon, with Exelon continuing as the surviving corporation in the merger (the "Upstream Merger"). The Upstream Merger had no effect on the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Exelon or its Amended and Restated Bylaws, as in effect prior to the Upstream Merger, and there was no change to the officers and directors of Exelon as a result of the Upstream Merger.
In connection with the Upstream Merger Agreement, on March 12, 2012, Exelon entered into, and consummated the transactions contemplated by, a Distribution and Assignment Agreement (the "Distribution Agreement") with Constellation and RF HoldCo LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and subsidiary of Constellation ("RFH"), pursuant to which Constellation transferred to Exelon all of its right, title and interest in and to 100% of the Class A membership interests in RFH effective concurrently with the Upstream Merger (the "Distribution"). The transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Upstream Merger Agreement, and the Distribution Agreement are collectively intended to qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Subsequent to consummation of the above transactions, on March 12, 2012, Exelon entered into, and consummated the transactions contemplated by, a Contribution and Assignment Agreement (the "RFH Contribution Agreement") with Exelon Energy Delivery Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and subsidiary of Exelon ("Exelon Delivery"), and RFH. Pursuant to the RFH Contribution Agreement, Exelon contributed all of its right, title and interest in and to 100% of the Class A membership interests in RFH to Exelon Delivery.
In addition, on March 12, 2012, following the consummation of the above transactions, Exelon concurrently entered into, and consummated the transactions contemplated by, a Contribution Agreement (the "Contribution Agreement") with Exelon Ventures Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon ("Ventures"), and Exelon Generation Company, LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Ventures ("Generation"). Pursuant to the Contribution Agreement, Exelon contributed to Generation 100% of the outstanding shares of common stock or other equity interests, as applicable, of certain of its subsidiaries acquired from Constellation as a result of the Initial Merger and the Upstream Merger. These subsidiaries generally include the generation, energy trading and retail energy businesses held directly or indirectly by Constellation prior to the Upstream Merger.
The foregoing descriptions of the Merger Agreement, the Upstream Merger Agreement, the Distribution Agreement, the RFH Contribution Agreement and the Contribution Agreement do not purport to be complete and are subject to and qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of such agreements, copies of which are attached as Exhibits 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, respectively.
The description of the supplemental indentures and amended credit agreements described in Item 2.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On March 12, 2012, Exelon completed its previously announced Initial Merger with Constellation pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, among other things, at the effective time of the Initial Merger, each issued and outstanding share of common stock, without par value, of Constellation ("Constellation Common Stock"), was automatically converted into the right to receive 0.9300 shares (the "Exchange Ratio") of common stock, without par value, of Exelon ("Exelon Common Stock"). All options to purchase Constellation Common Stock under Constellation's 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 2002 Senior Management Long-Term Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated Management Long-Term Incentive Plan or Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan (collectively and as amended, if applicable, the "Constellation Plans") converted into options to acquire a number of shares of Exelon Common Stock as adjusted for the Exchange Ratio at an option price adjusted by the Exchange Ratio and otherwise on the same terms and conditions. All awards of Constellation unvested restricted stock granted prior to April 28, 2011, that were outstanding as of immediately prior to the consummation of the Initial Merger became vested on a pro rata basis (determined based upon the number of months from the start of the applicable restricted period to the closing of the Initial Merger) and converted into Exelon Common Stock at the Exchange Ratio in accordance with the applicable stock plan and award agreement terms. All Constellation restricted stock that remained unvested on a pro rata basis pursuant to the foregoing formula, and any Constellation unvested restricted stock granted after April 28, 2011, has been assumed by Exelon and automatically converted into shares of unvested restricted stock of Exelon at the Exchange Ratio. Likewise, all restricted stock units granted under the Constellation Plans and outstanding immediately prior to the completion of the Initial Merger became vested on a pro rata basis (determined based upon the number of months from the start of the applicable restricted period to the closing of the Initial Merger) and have been assumed by Exelon and automatically converted into a number of shares of Exelon Common Stock equal to the product of (i) the total number of shares of Constellation Common Stock subject to such grant of restricted units and (ii) the Exchange Ratio. In addition, outstanding Constellation performance units under the Constellation Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan became vested on a pro rata basis (determined based on the number of months from the start of the applicable performance period to the completion of the Initial Merger) and, to the extent that such performance units became so vested, the holder is entitled to a cash payment within thirty days after completion of the Initial Merger in an amount equal to $2.00 multiplied by the total number of performance units that became vested as of the completion of the Initial Merger. With Exelon's consent, Constellation modified the terms of the performance units so that the performance units that did not become so vested as of immediately prior to completion of the Initial Merger were cancelled with the holder of each such unit becoming entitled to a payment at the target performance level of $1.00 per cancelled unit.
At the effective time of the Initial Merger, Constellation became a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon. In addition, effective as of the open of trading on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and Chicago Stock Exchange ("CSE") on March 13, 2012, the shares of Constellation Common Stock, which trade under the symbol "CEG," will cease trading on, and will be delisted from, the NYSE and the CSE. For more information about the Initial Merger, please see the Introductory Note to this Current Report on Form 8-K, which disclosures are incorporated herein by reference.
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Second Supplemental Indenture to 1999 Indenture
In connection with the Upstream Merger, Exelon and The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York banking corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, as trustee (the "1999 Indenture Trustee"), entered into a Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2012 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture to the 1999 Indenture"), in accordance with that certain indenture dated as of March 24, 1999, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated January 24, 2003 (together, the "1999 Indenture"), between Constellation and the 1999 Indenture Trustee.
Pursuant to the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 1999 Indenture, (i) effective upon consummation of the Upstream Merger, Exelon assumed the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all outstanding securities issued pursuant to the 1999 Indenture, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all the covenants and conditions of the 1999 Indenture to be performed by Constellation and (ii) Exelon succeeded to and was substituted for Constellation for purposes of the 1999 Indenture, with the same effect as if it had been named in the 1999 Indenture as Constellation.
As of March 12, 2012, the following series of notes had been issued by Constellation under the 1999 Indenture prior to the Initial Merger:
1. $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.60% Fixed-Rate Notes due 2032, all of which was outstanding as of December 31, 2011; and
2. $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.55% Fixed-Rate Notes due 2015, all of which was outstanding as of December 31, 2011.
The foregoing description of the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 1999 Indenture does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 1999 Indenture, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Second Supplemental Indenture to 2006 Indenture
In connection with the Upstream Merger, Exelon and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, as trustee (the "2006 Indenture Trustee"), entered into a Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2012 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2006 Indenture"), in accordance with that certain indenture dated as of July 24, 2006, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated June 27, 2008 (together, the "2006 Indenture"), between Constellation and the 2006 Indenture Trustee.
Pursuant to the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2006 Indenture, (i) effective upon consummation of the Upstream Merger, Exelon assumed the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all outstanding securities issued pursuant to the 2006 Indenture, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all the covenants and conditions of the 2006 Indenture to be performed by Constellation and (ii) Exelon succeeded to and was substituted for Constellation for purposes of the 2006 Indenture, with the same effect as if it had been named in the 2006 Indenture as Constellation.
As of March 12, 2012, the following series of debentures had been issued by Constellation under the 2006 Indenture prior to the Initial Merger:
1. $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8.625% Series A Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2063, all of which was outstanding as of December 31, 2011.
The foregoing description of the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2006 Indenture does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2006 Indenture, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 4.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
First Supplemental Indenture to 2008 Indenture
In connection with the Upstream Merger, Exelon and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, as trustee (the "2008 Indenture Trustee"), entered into a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2012 (the "First Supplemental Indenture to the 2008 Indenture"), in accordance with that certain indenture dated as of July 19, 2008 (the "2008 Indenture"), between Constellation and the 2008 Indenture Trustee.
Pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture to the 2008 Indenture, (i) effective upon consummation of the Upstream Merger, Exelon assumed the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all outstanding securities issued pursuant to the 2008 Indenture, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all the covenants and conditions of the 2008 Indenture to be performed by Constellation and (ii) Exelon succeeded to and was substituted for Constellation for purposes of the 2008 Indenture, with the same effect as if it had been named in the 2008 Indenture as Constellation.
As of March 12, 2012, the following series of notes had been issued by Constellation under the 2008 Indenture prior to the Initial Merger:
1. $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.15% Notes due 2020, all of which was outstanding as of December 31, 2011.
The foregoing description of the First Supplemental Indenture to the 2008 Indenture does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the First Supplemental Indenture to the 2008 Indenture, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 4.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Constellation Credit Facilities
In connection with the Upstream Merger, Exelon assumed all of Constellation's obligations under its three-year, unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Constellation Credit Agreement") among Constellation, Bank of America, N.A, as administrative agent, and various other financial institutions. Effective as of the Initial Merger, the Constellation Credit Agreement was amended and restated pursuant to an Amendment and Restatement Agreement (the "Amendment and Restatement Agreement") among Constellation, Bank of America, N.A and various other financial institutions to (i) permit Exelon and Constellation to consummate the Upstream Merger and the restructuring transactions described in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, (ii) reduce the aggregate commitments under the Constellation Credit Agreement from $2,500,000,000 to $1,500,000,000 and (iii) conform some of the representations, warranties, covenants and events of default in the Constellation Credit Agreement with the
representations, warranties, covenants and events of default in the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, as amended as of the Initial Merger, among Exelon, various financial institutions as lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (the "Exelon Credit Agreement").
The foregoing description of the Constellation Credit Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Constellation Credit Agreement, a form of which is an exhibit to the Amendment and Restatement Agreement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 4.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
In connection with the Upstream Merger, Exelon also assumed Constellation's obligations under four separate bilateral credit facilities and a commodity-linked credit facility, which were also amended to conform with the Constellation Credit Agreement effective as of the Initial Merger.
Exelon and Generation Credit Facilities
Effective as of the Initial Merger, the Exelon Credit Agreement was amended and restated pursuant to an Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement (the "Exelon Amendment") to conform some of the representations, warranties and covenants of the Exelon Credit Agreement with provisions of the Constellation Credit Agreement, as amended effective as of the Initial Merger. The foregoing description of the Exelon Amendment does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Exelon Amendment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 4.5 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Effective as of the Initial Merger, the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, among Generation, various financial institutions as lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (the "Generation Credit Agreement"), was amended and restated pursuant to an Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement (the "Generation Amendment") to conform some of the representations, warranties and covenants of the Generation Credit Agreement with provisions of the Constellation Credit Agreement, as amended effective as of the Initial Merger. The foregoing description of the Generation Amendment does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Generation Amendment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 4.6 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
The disclosure set forth above with respect to the 2006 Indenture is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Exelon Officers
Effective immediately upon completion of the Initial Merger and as contemplated by the Merger Agreement, John W. Rowe resigned as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Exelon, and the Board of Directors of Exelon (the "Board") appointed Christopher M. Crane, formerly President and Chief Operating Officer of Exelon, to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of Exelon. Mr. Crane, age 53, joined Exelon in 1998 and served as President and Chief Nuclear Officer of the Exelon Nuclear division of Generation and Senior Vice President of Exelon from 2004 to 2007, Executive Vice President of Exelon from 2007 to 2008, Chief Operating Officer of Generation from 2007 to 2010 and
President and Chief Operating Officer of Exelon and President of Generation from 2007 until his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer of Exelon.
On March 12, 2012, in connection with the Initial Merger, Matthew F. Hilzinger resigned as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Exelon, and was appointed by the Board to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Integration Officer. At the same time, the Board appointed Jonathan W. Thayer as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Exelon. Prior to his appointment as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Exelon, Mr. Thayer, age 40, served as Vice President and Managing Director, Corporate Strategy and Development, of Constellation, Treasurer of Constellation, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Baltimore Gas and Electric Company, and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Constellation.
The Board approved the continuation of the base salaries of Messrs. Crane and Shattuck at the current levels in effect with their employers immediately prior to the effective time of the Initial Merger, pending further action by the Board on their compensation. For Mr. Thayer, the Board approved a base salary of $650,000, an annual incentive plan target of 90%, a performance share award program target of 36,000 performance shares, and a grant of options to purchase 97,000 shares of Exelon's common stock. The terms of the performance shares and stock options are consistent with Exelon's standard terms as previously disclosed.
Exelon Directors
In connection with the Initial Merger and pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, effective on March 12, 2012, the Board appointed Ann C. Berzin, Christopher M. Crane, Yves C. de Balmann, Robert Lawless and Mayo A. Shattuck III to the Board.
The Board appointed the newly elected directors to the committees of the Board as follows:
 
The newly elected directors will receive compensation in accordance with the directors' compensation plans and provisions as disclosed in Exelon's definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on April 2, 2012.
On March 12, 2012, the Board accepted the resignations of John M. Palms as director as a result of his scheduled retirement from the Board and John W. Rowe as director and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. As contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Mayo A. Shattuck III was concurrently appointed as Chairman of the Board and became an employee of Exelon serving in the capacity of Executive Chairman with the duties and responsibilities prescribed for the Executive Chairman in the Merger Agreement.
Constellation Plans
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Initial Merger:
 
 
 
Constellation's 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 2002 Senior Management Long-Term Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated Management Long-Term Incentive Plan, and Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan, in each case, as amended, if applicable, are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5, respectively.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation of Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Effective March 12, 2012, Exelon amended certain provisions of its Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws"). Section 5.07 has been amended to provide that the Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and the Board, except as otherwise provided by the Bylaws or by action of the Board. The former provision provided that the chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and the Board, except as otherwise provided by the Bylaws. Section 5.07 has also been amended to provide that the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, if there is one, may, but need not be, an employee of Exelon, and may hold any other office as may be determined by the Board.
Section 5.08 has been amended to provide that the general supervision afforded to the Chief Executive Officer over the business and operations of Exelon is subject only to the control of the Board, and that only the Board may assign the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, other than those duties otherwise provided for in Section 5.08. The former provision provided that the general supervision of the Chief Executive Officer over the business and operations of Exelon was subject to the control of the Board and the Chairman of the Board, and that the Board and the Chairman of the Board could assign the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, other than those duties otherwise provided for in Section 5.08.
Section 5.09 has been amended to provide that the general supervision afforded to the President over the business and operations of Exelon is subject to the control of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, as applicable, and that only the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, as applicable, may assign the duties of the President, other than those duties otherwise provided for in Section 5.09. The former provision provided that the general supervision of the President over the business and operations of Exelon was subject to the control of the Board, the Chairman of the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer, as applicable, and that the Board, the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer could assign the duties of the President, other than those duties otherwise provided for in Section 5.09.
The foregoing description of the amendments to the Bylaws does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Bylaws, effective as of March 12, 2012, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.05. Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics.
On March 12, 2012, the Board approved an amended Code of Business Conduct, effective with the closing of the Initial Merger. The amendments include some features from the Constellation Principles of Business Integrity. The amended Code of Business Conduct does not differ in any material respect from the prior Code of Business Conduct.
The foregoing description of the amendments to the Code of Business Conduct does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Code of Business Conduct, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 14.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Announcement of Completion of Merger
On March 9, 2012, Exelon and Constellation issued a joint press release announcing that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved the Initial Merger. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
On March 12, 2012, Exelon and Constellation issued a joint press release announcing the completion of the Initial Merger. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Also on March 12, 2012, Exelon and Constellation issued a joint press release announcing that Constellation's shares will no longer be listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange and will cease being traded prior to the opening of markets on Tuesday, March 13, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Amendment to Replacement Capital Covenant
On March 12, 2012, Constellation executed an amendment (the "Amendment") to its Replacement Capital Covenant, dated as of June 27, 2008 (the "Replacement Capital Covenant"), which was executed in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined in the Replacement Capital Covenant) in connection with the issuance by Constellation of $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its Series A Junior Subordinated Debentures ("Debentures"). As a result of the Upstream Merger and pursuant to the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2006 Indenture, Exelon has succeeded Constellation as obligor under the Debentures and the Replacement Capital Covenant, as amended.
The intent and effect of the Amendment is to recognize, for purposes of calculating qualified replacement capital under the Replacement Capital Covenant, the proceeds from the issuance of any and all securities specified in Section 2 of the Replacement Capital Covenant on or after March 12, 2012.
On March 12, 2012, after the effective time of the Initial Merger and the amendment to the Replacement Capital Covenant and before the effective time of the Upstream Merger, Exelon made a cash contribution to the capital of Constellation in the amount of $250 million.
The foregoing description of the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
Exelon intends to file the financial statements of Constellation required by Item 9.01(a) as part of an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K or otherwise not later than 71 calendar days after the date this Current Report is required to be filed.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
Exelon intends to file the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) as part of an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K or otherwise not later than 71 calendar days after the date this Current Report is required to be filed.
(d) Exhibits.
 
This combined Form 8-K is being filed separately by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company, PECO Energy Company, Generation and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (collectively, the "Exelon Registrants"). Information contained herein relating to any individual Exelon Registrant has been filed by such registrant on its own behalf. No individual Exelon Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Exelon Registrant.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this communication constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions, or events identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding benefits of the merger of Exelon and Constellation, integration plans and expected synergies, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth. These statements are based on the current expectations of management of Exelon. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this communication regarding the merger. For example, (1) problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of the combined company, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; (2) the combined company may be unable to achieve cost-cutting synergies or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; (3) the merger may involve unexpected costs, unexpected liabilities or unexpected delays, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from the companies' expectations; (4) the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what Exelon expects; (5) the industry may be subject to future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the combined company; and (6) the combined company may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of the combined company. Discussions of some of these other important factors and assumptions are contained in Exelon's and Constellation's respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, including: (1) Exelon's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; and (2) Constellation's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12. These risks, as well as other risks associated with the merger, are more fully discussed in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Exelon filed with the SEC and that the SEC declared effective on October 11, 2011 in connection with the merger. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this communication may not occur. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this communication. Exelon undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this communication.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto authorized.
March 14, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 2.2
Execution Version
AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER, dated March 12, 2012 (this ""), between Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation ("") and its direct wholly-owned subsidiary, Constellation Energy Group, Inc., a Maryland corporation ("").
Agreement
Exelon
CEG
WHEREAS, Exelon is a business corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania;
WHEREAS, CEG is a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Maryland;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Exelon has adopted this Agreement and approved the merger of CEG with and into Exelon upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein (the "") in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law (the "");
Merger
PBCL
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of CEG has adopted this Agreement and approved the Merger in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the "");
MGCL
WHEREAS, in connection with and simultaneously as part of the Merger, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in that certain Distribution and Assignment Agreement (the ""), dated as of the date hereof, among Exelon, CEG and RF HoldCo LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and subsidiary of CEG (""), CEG shall distribute, assign, transfer and convey all of CEG's right, title and interest in and to 100% of the Class A membership interests (the "") in RF HoldCo to Exelon, and Exelon shall accept and acquire all of CEG's right, title and interest in and to the Class A Membership Interests (the "");
Distribution Agreement
RF HoldCo
Class A Membership Interests
Distribution
WHEREAS, the acquisition of CEG by Exelon pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated April 28, 2011, by and among Exelon, CEG and Bolt Acquisition Corp., a Maryland corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Exelon (the ""), the Merger and the Distribution are all steps in an integrated plan; and
Acquisition
WHEREAS, for federal income tax purposes, it is intended that the Acquisition, the Merger and the Distribution qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and that this Agreement will be, and hereby is, adopted as a plan of reorganization.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration for the mutual agreements and covenants set forth herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
1. . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereof, and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the PBCL and the MGCL, CEG shall be merged with and into
Merger
Exelon at the Effective Time (as defined below). Exelon shall be the surviving entity of the Merger (the "") and the separate existence of CEG shall cease. The Surviving Company shall continue its existence as a business corporation under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Surviving Company
2. . In order to effectuate the Merger, Exelon and CEG shall (a) file articles of merger with the Department of State of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in such form as required by, and executed in accordance with, the PBCL and (b) file articles of merger with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of the State of Maryland, in such form as required by, and executed in accordance with, the MGCL. The Merger shall become effective on such date and at such time as shall be specified in the articles of merger or as otherwise provided by the PBCL or the MGCL (the "").
Effective Time
Effective Time
3. . In connection with and as part of the Merger, Exelon and CEG shall effect the Distribution concurrently with the Merger upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Distribution Agreement.
Distribution
4. . The Merger shall have the effects specified in the PBCL, the MGCL and this Agreement. At the Effective Time, all of the rights, privileges and powers of Exelon and CEG, and all property, real, personal and mixed, and all debts due to Exelon and CEG, as well as all other things and causes of action belonging to Exelon and CEG shall be vested in the Surviving Company, and shall thereafter be the property of the Surviving Company. All of the debts, liabilities and duties of Exelon and CEG shall thenceforth attach to the Surviving Company, and may be enforced against the Surviving Company to the same extent as if such debts, liabilities and duties had been incurred or contracted by the Surviving Company.
Effect of Merger
5. . At the Effective Time, the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Exelon, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall be the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Surviving Company and shall continue in effect until thereafter amended in accordance with its terms and the PBCL. At the Effective Time, the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Exelon, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall be the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Surviving Company and shall continue in effect until thereafter amended in accordance with its terms and the PBCL.
Governing Documents
6. . The officers and directors of Exelon immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the officer and directors of the Surviving Company from and after the Effective Time until their respective successors are elected.
Officers and Directors
7. . At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder thereof, each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of CEG issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be cancelled and retired and shall cease to exist. All issued and outstanding shares of common stock, without par value, of Exelon shall not be affected in any manner by the Merger.
Shares
8. . From time to time, as and when required by the Surviving Company or by its successors or assigns, there shall be executed and delivered on behalf of CEG such deeds and other instruments, and there shall be taken or caused to be taken by it all such
Further Assurances
further and other action, as shall be appropriate, advisable or necessary in order to vest, perfect or confirm, of record or otherwise, in the Surviving Company the title to and possession of all property, interests, assets, rights, privileges, immunities, powers, franchises and authority of CEG, and otherwise to carry out the purposes of this Agreement. The officers and directors of the Surviving Company are fully authorized on behalf of CEG or otherwise, to take any and all such action and to execute and deliver any and all such deeds and other instruments.
9. . Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any person other than the parties hereto any rights, benefits or remedies of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
10. . The parties may amend, modify or supplement this Agreement to the fullest extent permitted by the PBCL or the MGCL at any time prior to the filing of any certificate or other document relating to the Merger in such manner as may be agreed upon by them in writing.
Amendment; Waiver
11. . This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Effective Time by either party.
Termination
12. .
Miscellaneous
(a) For Federal income tax purposes, it is intended that the Acquisition, the Merger and the Distribution qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and this Agreement will be, and hereby is, adopted as a plan of reorganization.
(b) The descriptive headings herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
(c) Except to the extent required under the MGCL, this Agreement, the rights and obligations of the parties hereto, and any claims or disputes relating hereto, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (excluding the choice of law rules thereof).
(d) This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall be considered one and the same agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Agreement, with effect as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.3
Execution Version
This Distribution and Assignment Agreement (the ""), dated as of March 12, 2012, is entered into by and between Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (""), Constellation Energy Group, Inc., a Maryland corporation and subsidiary of Exelon (""), and RF HoldCo LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and subsidiary of CEG ("").
Agreement
Exelon
CEG
RF HoldCo
WHEREAS, CEG owns 100% of the Class A membership interests (the "") in RF HoldCo;
Class A Membership Interests
WHEREAS, in connection with and as part of the merger of CEG with and into Exelon (the ""), CEG desires to distribute, assign, transfer and convey all of CEG's right, title and interest in and to the Class A Membership Interests to Exelon, and Exelon desires to accept and acquire all of CEG's right, title and interest in and to the Class A Membership Interests (the "");
Upstream Merger
Distribution
WHEREAS, upon the Distribution, Exelon agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Operating Agreement of RF HoldCo, dated as of February 4, 2010 (the "") and thereupon be admitted as a member of RF HoldCo (the "");
Operating Agreement
Class A Member
WHEREAS, RF HoldCo desires to admit Exelon as the Class A Member pursuant to Sections 2.6 and 2.8 of the Operating Agreement; and
WHEREAS, concurrently with the admission of Exelon as the Class A Member, CEG desires to cease to be a member of RF HoldCo.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration for the mutual promises and covenants set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
1. . Effective concurrently with the Upstream Merger on the date hereof, and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, CEG does hereby distribute, assign, transfer and convey to Exelon all of CEG's right, title and interest in and to all of the Class A Membership Interests. Effective concurrently with the Upstream Merger on the date hereof, and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, Exelon does hereby accept all of CEG's right, title and interest in and to the Class A Membership Interests.
Distribution
2. .
Membership in RF HoldCo
a. Concurrently with the Distribution described in above, Exelon hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Operating Agreement and to be admitted as the Class A Member of RF HoldCo. RF HoldCo,
Section 1
pursuant to Sections 2.6 and 2.8 of the Operating Agreement, hereby admits Exelon as the Class A Member.
b. Concurrently with the admission of Exelon as the Class A Member of RF HoldCo, CEG shall and does hereby cease to be a member of RF HoldCo.
c. Following the admission of Exelon as the Class A Member of RF HoldCo, each of Exelon and RF HoldCo hereby acknowledge and agree that the terms and conditions of the Operating Agreement remain in full force and effect.
3. . Each of the parties hereto hereby represents and warrants to the other parties that (a) it is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (b) it has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into, execute and deliver this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (c) this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such party, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms.
Representations of the Parties
4. . From time to time hereafter, each of the parties hereto hereby agrees to do all such acts and things and to execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered all such documents, notices, instruments and agreements as may be necessary or desirable to give effect to the provisions and intent of this Agreement.
Further Assurances
5. . This Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by and against, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
6. . This Agreement may be changed, modified or terminated only by an instrument in writing signed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments
7. . This Agreement shall be governed by, enforced under and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to any choice or conflicts of law provision or rule thereof. The parties irrevocably elect, as the sole judicial forum for the adjudication of any matters arising under or in connection with this Agreement, and consent to the jurisdiction of, any state or federal court located in the State of Delaware. Each of the parties hereby waives any right to trial by jury in any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any actual or proposed transaction or other matter contemplated in or relating to this Agreement.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
8. . This Agreement is not intended to confer upon any person other than the parties hereto (and their respective successors and assigns) any rights or remedies hereunder.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
9. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
10. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, such provision shall be fully severable and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision never comprised a part hereof; and the remaining provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance herefrom. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision, there shall be added automatically as part of this Agreement, a provision as similar in its terms to such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Agreement, with effect concurrently with the Upstream Merger.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.4
Execution Version
This Contribution and Assignment Agreement (the ""), dated as of March 12, 2012, is entered into by and between Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (""), Exelon Energy Delivery Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and subsidiary of Exelon (""), and RF HoldCo LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and subsidiary of Exelon ("").
Agreement
Exelon
EEDC
RF HoldCo
WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Distribution and Assignment Agreement, effective as of the date hereof (the ""), Exelon owns 100% of the Class A membership interests (the "") in RF HoldCo;
Distribution and Assignment Agreement
Class A Membership Interests
WHEREAS, Exelon desires to contribute, assign, transfer and convey all of Exelon's right, title and interest in and to the Class A Membership Interests to EEDC, and EEDC desires to accept and acquire all of Exelon's right, title and interest in and to the Class A Membership Interests (the "");
Contribution
WHEREAS, upon the Contribution, EEDC agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Operating Agreement of RF HoldCo, dated as of February 4, 2010 (the "") and thereupon be admitted as a member of RF HoldCo (the "");
Operating Agreement
Class A Member
WHEREAS, RF HoldCo desires to admit EEDC as the Class A Member pursuant to Sections 2.6 and 2.8 of the Operating Agreement; and
WHEREAS, concurrently with the admission of EEDC as the Class A Member, Exelon desires to cease to be a member of RF HoldCo.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration for the mutual promises and covenants set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
1. . Effective as of immediately following the effective time of the Distribution and Assignment Agreement on the date hereof, and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, Exelon hereby contributes, assigns, transfers and conveys to EEDC all of Exelon's right, title and interest in and to all of the Class A Membership Interests. Effective as of immediately following the effective time of the Distribution and Assignment Agreement on the date hereof, and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, EEDC does hereby accept all of Exelon's right, title and interest in and to the Class A Membership Interests.
Contribution
2. .
Membership in RF HoldCo
a. Concurrently with the Contribution described in above, EEDC hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Operating Agreement and to be admitted as the Class A Member of RF HoldCo. RF HoldCo, pursuant to Sections 2.6 and 2.8 of the Operating Agreement, hereby admits EEDC as the Class A Member.
Section 1
b. Concurrently with the admission of EEDC as the Class A Member of RF HoldCo, Exelon shall and does hereby cease to be a member of RF HoldCo.
c. Following the admission of EEDC as the Class A Member of RF HoldCo, each of EEDC and RF HoldCo hereby acknowledge and agree that the terms and conditions of the Operating Agreement remain in full force and effect.
3. . Each of the parties hereto hereby represents and warrants to the other parties that (a) it is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (b) it has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into, execute and deliver this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (c) this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such party, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms.
Representations of the Parties
4. . From time to time hereafter, each of the parties hereto hereby agrees to do all such acts and things and to execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered all such documents, notices, instruments and agreements as may be necessary or desirable to give effect to the provisions and intent of this Agreement.
Further Assurances
5. . This Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by and against, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
6. . This Agreement may be changed, modified or terminated only by an instrument in writing signed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments
7. . This Agreement shall be governed by, enforced under and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to any choice or conflicts of law provision or rule thereof. The parties irrevocably elect, as the sole judicial forum for the adjudication of any matters arising under or in connection with this Agreement, and consent to the jurisdiction of, any state or federal court located in the State of Delaware. Each of the parties hereby waives any right to trial by jury in any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any actual or proposed transaction or other matter contemplated in or relating to this Agreement.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
8. . This Agreement is not intended to confer upon any person other than the parties hereto (and their respective successors and assigns) any rights or remedies hereunder.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
 
9. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
10. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, such provision shall be fully severable and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision never comprised a part hereof; and the remaining provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance herefrom. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision, there shall be added automatically as part of this Agreement, a provision as similar in its terms to such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Agreement, with effect as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.5
Execution Version
This Contribution Agreement (the ""), effective as of March 12, 2012, is entered into by and among Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (""), Exelon Ventures Company, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon (""), and Exelon Generation Company, LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Ventures ("").
Agreement
Exelon
Ventures
ExGen
WHEREAS, as a result of the merger of Constellation Energy Group, Inc. ("") with and into Exelon (the "") pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 12, 2012, by and between CEG and Exelon, Exelon owns 100% of the outstanding shares of common stock or other equity interests, as applicable (the "") of CE FundingCo, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), Constellation Nuclear, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), Constellation Holdings, Inc., a Maryland corporation (""), and Constellation Energy Resources, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("", and together with CE Funding, Nuclear and Holdings, the "");
CEG
Upstream Merger
Interests
CE Funding
Nuclear
Holdings
Resources
Subsidiaries
WHEREAS, Exelon desires to contribute, assign, transfer and convey all of Exelon's right, title and interest in and to the Interests to Ventures, and Ventures desires to accept and acquire all of Exelon's right, title and interest in and to the Interests (the "");
Initial Contribution
WHEREAS, immediately upon the Initial Contribution, Ventures desires to contribute, assign, transfer and convey all of Ventures' right, title and interest in and to the Interests to ExGen, and ExGen desires to accept and acquire all of Ventures' right, title and interest in and to the Interests (the "");
Final Contribution
WHEREAS, upon the Final Contribution, EGC agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of (i) the Operating Agreement of CE Funding, dated as of December 12, 2011 (the "") and (ii) the Operating Agreement of Nuclear, dated as of October 14, 2009 (the "") and in each case thereupon be admitted as a member of CE Funding and Nuclear (a "");
CE Funding Operating Agreement
Nuclear Operating Agreement
Member
WHEREAS, concurrently with the admission of ExGen as the Member, Exelon desires to cease to be a member of each of CE Funding and Nuclear; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Operating Agreement of Resources, upon the transfer of the Interests in Resources to ExGen, ExGen shall be automatically admitted as the sole member of Resources and Exelon shall no longer be a member of Resources.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration for the mutual promises and covenants set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
1. . Effective immediately following the Upstream Merger, and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, Exelon hereby contributes, assigns, transfers and conveys to Ventures all of Exelon's right, title and interest in and to all of the Interests. Effective as of the date hereof, and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, Ventures does hereby accept all of Exelon's right, title and interest in and to the Interests.
Initial Contribution
2. . Effective immediately upon the Initial Contribution, and on the terms and conditions set forth herein, Ventures hereby contributes, assigns, transfers and conveys to ExGen all of Venture's right, title and interest in and to all of the Interests. Effective immediately upon the Initial Contribution, and on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, ExGen does hereby accept all of Venture's right, title and interest in and to the Interests.
Final Contribution
3. .
Membership in CE Funding and Nuclear
a. Concurrently with the Contribution described in above, ExGen hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the CE Funding Operating Agreement and to be admitted as the Member of CE Funding.
Section 2
b. Concurrently with the admission of ExGen as the sole Member of CE Funding, Exelon shall and does hereby cease to be a Member of CE Funding.
c. Following the admission of ExGen as the Member of CE Funding, ExGen hereby acknowledges and agrees that the terms and conditions of the CE Funding Operating Agreement remain in full force and effect.
d. Concurrently with the Contribution described in above, ExGen hereby agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Nuclear Operating Agreement and to be admitted as the Member of Nuclear.
Section 2
e. Concurrently with the admission of ExGen as the sole Member of Nuclear, Exelon shall and does hereby cease to be a Member of Nuclear.
f. Following the admission of ExGen as the Member of Nuclear, ExGen hereby acknowledges and agrees that the terms and conditions of the Nuclear Operating Agreement remain in full force and effect.
4. . Each of the parties hereto hereby represents and warrants to the other parties that (a) it is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (b) it has all requisite corporate or similar power and authority to enter into, execute and deliver this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (c) this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such party, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms.
Representations of the Parties
5. . From time to time hereafter, each of the parties hereto hereby agrees to do all such acts and things and to execute and deliver, or cause to be
Further Assurances
 
executed and delivered all such documents, notices, instruments and agreements as may be necessary or desirable to give effect to the provisions and intent of this Agreement.
6. . This Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by and against, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
7. . This Agreement may be changed, modified or terminated only by an instrument in writing signed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendments
8. . This Agreement shall be governed by, enforced under and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to any choice or conflicts of law provision or rule thereof. The parties irrevocably elect, as the sole judicial forum for the adjudication of any matters arising under or in connection with this Agreement, and consent to the jurisdiction of, any state or federal court located in the State of Delaware. Each of the parties hereby waives any right to trial by jury in any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any actual or proposed transaction or other matter contemplated in or relating to this Agreement.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
9. . This Agreement is not intended to confer upon any person other than the parties hereto (and their respective successors and assigns) any rights or remedies hereunder.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
10. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
11. . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, such provision shall be fully severable and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision never comprised a part hereof; and the remaining provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance herefrom. Furthermore, in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision, there shall be added automatically as part of this Agreement, a provision as similar in its terms to such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision as may be possible and be legal, valid and enforceable.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Agreement, with effect as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1.01 . The registered office of the corporation in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania shall be at 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.
Registered Office
Section 1.02 . The corporation may also have offices at such other places within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as the board of directors may from time to time appoint or as may be necessary, advisable or appropriate for the business of the corporation.
Other Offices
Section 1.03 . The fiscal year of the corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year.
Fiscal Year
Section 2.01 .
Manner of Giving Notice
(a) . Whenever written notice is required to be given to any person under the provisions of the Business Corporation Law or by the articles or these bylaws, it may be given to the person either personally or by sending a copy thereof by first class or express mail, postage prepaid, or by telegram (with messenger services specified), telex or TWX (with answerback received) or courier service, charges prepaid, or by facsimile transmission, to the address (or to the telex, TWX or facsimile transmission telephone number) of the person appearing on the books of the corporation, or as otherwise permitted by applicable law, or, in the case of directors, supplied by the director to the corporation for the purpose of notice. If the notice is sent by mail, telegraph or courier service, it shall be deemed to have been given to the person entitled thereto when deposited in the United States mail or with a telegraph office or courier service for delivery to that person or, in the case of telex or TWX, when dispatched or, in the case of facsimile transmission, when received. Notwithstanding the foregoing, written notice of any meeting of shareholders may be sent by any class of mail, postage prepaid, so long as such notice is sent at least 20 calendar days prior to the date of the meeting. A notice of meeting shall specify the place, day and hour of the meeting and any other information required by any other provision of the Business Corporation Law, the articles or these bylaws.
General Rule
(b) . When a meeting of shareholders is adjourned, it shall not be necessary to give any notice of the adjourned meeting or of the business to be transacted at an adjourned meeting, other than by announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, unless the board fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting or the Business Corporation Law requires notice of the business to be transacted and such notice has not previously been given.
Adjourned Shareholder Meetings
Section 2.02 .
Notice of Meetings of the Board of Directors
Notice of a regular meeting of the board of directors need not be given. Notice of every special meeting of the board of directors shall be given to each director by telephone or in writing at least 24 hours (in the case of notice by telephone, telex, TWX, facsimile or other electronic transmission) or 48 hours (in the case of notice by telegraph, courier service or express mail) or five days (in the case of notice by first class mail) before the time at which the meeting is to be held. Every such notice shall state the time and place of the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the board need be specified in a notice of the meeting.
Section 2.03 .
Notice of Meetings of Shareholders
(a) . Written notice of every meeting of the shareholders shall be given by, or at the direction of, the secretary or other authorized person to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting not less than five nor more than 90 calendar days prior to the date of the meeting. If the secretary neglects or refuses to give notice of a meeting, the person or persons calling the meeting may do so. In the case of a special meeting of shareholders, the notice shall specify the general nature of the business to be transacted.
General Rule
(b) . In the case of a meeting of shareholders that has as one of its purposes adoption, amendment or repeal of these bylaws, written notice shall be given to each shareholder that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider the adoption, amendment or repeal of the bylaws. There shall be included in, or enclosed with, the notice a copy of the proposed amendment or a summary of the changes to be effected thereby.
Notice of Action by Shareholders on Bylaws
Section 2.04 .
Waiver of Notice
(a) . Whenever any written notice is required to be given under the provisions of the Business Corporation Law, the articles or these bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to the notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of the notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, a meeting need be specified in the waiver of notice of the meeting.
Written Waiver
(b) . Attendance of a person at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of the meeting except where a person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened.
Waiver by Attendance
Section 2.05 . Whenever the language of a proposed resolution is included in a written notice of a meeting required to be given under the provisions of the Business Corporation Law or the articles or these bylaws, the meeting considering the resolution may without further notice adopt it with such clarifying or other amendments as do not enlarge its original purpose.
Modification of Proposal Contained in Notice
 
Section 2.06 .
Exception to Requirement of Notice
(a) . Whenever any notice or communication is required to be given to any person under the provisions of the Business Corporation Law or by the articles or these bylaws or by the terms of any agreement or other instrument or as a condition precedent to taking any corporate action and communication with that person is then unlawful, the giving of the notice or communication to that person shall not be required.
General Rule
(b) . Notice or other communications need not be sent to any shareholder with whom the corporation has been unable to communicate for more than 24 consecutive months because communications to the shareholder are returned unclaimed or the shareholder has otherwise failed to provide the corporation with a current address. Whenever the shareholder provides the corporation with a current address, the corporation shall recommence sending notices and other communications to the shareholder in the manner provided by these bylaws.
Shareholders Without Forwarding Addresses
Section 2.07 . Any director may participate in any meeting of the board of directors or a committee thereof, and the board of directors may provide by resolution with respect to a specific meeting of shareholders or with respect to a class of meetings of shareholders that one or more persons may participate in a meeting of the shareholders of the corporation, by means of conference telephone, video conference or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other. Participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Use of Conference Telephone and Similar Equipment
Section 3.01 . Meetings of the shareholders of the corporation may be held at such place within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as may be designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors, by the chairman of the board or the president and stated in the notice of a meeting.
Place of Meeting
Section 3.02 . The annual meeting of the shareholders for the election of directors and the transaction of other business, if any, shall be held on such date and time as may be fixed by the board and stated in the notice of meetings (or, if the board fails to designate a date and time, at 10:30 a.m. on the fourth Wednesday in April of each year or, if such Wednesday is a legal holiday in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or in such other jurisdiction where such meeting may be held, the next succeeding business day). Failure to hold such meeting at the designated time or on the designated date or to elect some or all of the members of the board at such meeting or any adjournment thereof shall not affect otherwise valid corporate acts or work a forfeiture or dissolution of the corporation. If the annual meeting shall not have been called and held within six months after the designated time, any shareholder may call the meeting at any time thereafter.
Annual Meeting
Section 3.03 . Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by resolution of the board of directors, which may fix the date, time and place of the meeting, and shall be called as provided in the terms of the Preferred Stock. If the board does not fix the date, time or place of the meeting, it shall be the duty of the secretary to do so. A date fixed by the secretary shall not be more than 60 calendar days after the date of the action calling the special meeting.
Special Meetings
 
Section 3.04 .
Quorum and Adjournment
(a) . A meeting of the shareholders of the corporation duly called shall not be organized for the transaction of business unless a quorum is present. Except as otherwise provided in the terms of the Preferred Stock, the presence of shareholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes that all shareholders are entitled to cast on a particular matter to be acted upon at the meeting shall constitute a quorum for the purposes of consideration and action on the matter. Shares of the corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by it shall not be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares for quorum purposes at any given time.
General Rule
(b) . The shareholders present at a duly organized meeting can continue to do business until adjournment notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum.
Withdrawal of a Quorum
(c) . Any regular or special meeting of the shareholders, including one at which directors are to be elected and one which cannot be organized because a quorum has not attended, may be adjourned, except as otherwise provided by the Business Corporation Law, for such period and to such place as the shareholders present and entitled to vote shall direct.
Adjournments Generally
(d) . Those shareholders entitled to vote who attend a meeting called for the election of directors that has been previously adjourned for lack of a quorum, although less than a quorum as fixed in this Section of these bylaws, shall nevertheless constitute a quorum for the purpose of electing directors.
Electing Directors at Adjourned Meeting
(e) . Those shareholders entitled to vote who attend a meeting of shareholders that has been previously adjourned for one or more periods aggregating at least 15 calendar days because of an absence of a quorum, although less than a quorum as fixed in this Section of these bylaws, shall nevertheless constitute a quorum for the purpose of acting upon any matter set forth in the notice of the meeting if the notice states that those shareholders who attend the adjourned meeting shall nevertheless constitute a quorum for the purpose of acting upon the matter.
Other Action in Absence of Quorum
Section 3.05 .
Action by Shareholders
(a) . Except as otherwise provided in the Business Corporation Law or the articles or these bylaws, whenever any corporate action is to be taken by vote of the shareholders of the corporation, it shall be authorized upon receiving the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon and, if any shareholders are entitled to vote thereon as a class, upon receiving the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by the shareholders entitled to vote as a class, in each case at a duly organized meeting of shareholders. Except as otherwise provided in the terms of the Preferred Stock or when acting by unanimous consent to remove a director or directors, the shareholders of the corporation may act only at a duly organized meeting.
General Rule
 
(b) . Only such business will be conducted at an annual or special meeting of shareholders as shall have been properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the board of directors, or with respect to an annual meeting, by any shareholder who complies with the procedures set forth in this Section.
Conduct of Business
(1) For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given to the secretary of the corporation timely written notice of the shareholder's intention to make a proposal, in the manner and form prescribed herein, whether or not the proposed business is to be included in the corporation's proxy statement.
(i) To be timely, a shareholder's notice with respect to an annual meeting of shareholders must be addressed to the secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation and received by the secretary not less than 120 calendar days in advance of the first anniversary of the date on which the corporation first mailed its proxy materials to shareholders for the prior year's annual meeting of shareholders, and this notice requirement shall not be affected by any adjournment of said meeting; provided, however, that in the event public announcement of the date of the annual meeting is not made at least 75 calendar days prior to the date of the annual meeting, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th calendar day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the annual meeting.
(ii) A shareholder's notice to the secretary must set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (A) a description in reasonable detail of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (B) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the shareholder proposing such business and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (C) the class and number of shares of the corporation and any other ownership interests, including derivatives, hedged positions and other economic or voting interests in the corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by the shareholder proposing such business and by the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (D) any material interest of such shareholder proposing such business and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made in such business, and (E) a representation as to whether such shareholder intends to deliver a proxy statement regarding such matters to the other shareholders of the corporation.
(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of these bylaws, a shareholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section. For purposes of this Section, "public announcement" means disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Bloomberg Business News, or Reuters Economic Services or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the
 
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14, or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, or publicly filed by the corporation with any national securities exchange or quotation service through which the corporation's stock is listed or traded, or furnished by the corporation to its shareholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no notice of the date of the annual meeting is required for the advance notice provision of this Section 3.05 (b) to be effective if the annual meeting is held on such date as specified in Section 3.02 of these bylaws. Nothing in this Section will be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
(2) At a special meeting of shareholders, only such business may be conducted or considered as is properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before a special meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given in accordance with Section 2.03 of these bylaws or (ii) otherwise brought before the meeting by the presiding officer or by or at the direction of a majority of the total number of directors that the corporation would have if there were no vacancies on the board of directors (the "Whole Board").
(3) The determination of whether any business sought to be brought before any annual or special meeting of the shareholders is properly brought before such meeting in accordance with this Section of these bylaws will be made by the presiding officer of such meeting. If the presiding officer determines that any business is not properly brought before such meeting, he or she will so declare to the meeting and any such business will not be conducted or considered.
Section 3.06 .
Organization
(a) . At every meeting of the shareholders, the chairman of the board, or such other officer of the corporation designated by a majority of the Whole Board, will call meetings of shareholders to order or, in the case of vacancy in office and absence by action of the Whole Board, one of the following officers present in the order stated: The chief executive officer, if there be one, the president, if there be one, the vice presidents in their order of rank and seniority shall act as "presiding officer" of the meeting. The term "presiding officer" means an officer who presides over a meeting of shareholders. The secretary or, in the absence of the secretary, an assistant secretary, or, in the absence of both the secretary and assistant secretaries, a person appointed by the presiding officer of the meeting, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
Presiding Officer and Secretary of Meeting
(b) . Unless otherwise determined by the board of directors prior to the meeting, the presiding officer of the meeting of shareholders will determine the order of business and have the authority to make such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of shareholders as such presiding officer deems necessary, appropriate or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, establishing an agenda or order of business for the meeting, rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, limitations on participation in such meeting to shareholders of record of the corporation and their duly authorized and constituted proxies, and such other persons as the board of directors or the presiding officer shall permit, restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time
Rules of Conduct
 
fixed for the commencement thereof, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comment by participants and regulation of the opening and closing of the polls for balloting on matters which are to be voted on by ballot. Unless, and to the extent determined by the board of directors or the presiding officer of the meeting, meetings of shareholders need not be conducted in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
Section 3.07 . Unless otherwise provided in the articles, every shareholder of the corporation shall be entitled to one vote for every share standing in the name of the shareholder on the books of the corporation.
Voting Rights of Shareholders
Section 3.08 .
Voting and other Action by Proxy
(a) .
General Rule
(1) Every shareholder entitled to vote at a meeting of shareholders may authorize another person to act for the shareholder by proxy.
(2) The presence of, or vote or other action at a meeting of shareholders by a proxy of a shareholder shall constitute the presence of, or vote or action by, the shareholder.
(3) Where two or more proxies of a shareholder are present, the corporation shall, unless otherwise expressly provided in the proxy, accept as the vote of all shares represented thereby the vote cast by a majority of them and, if a majority of the proxies cannot agree whether the shares represented shall be voted, or upon the manner of voting the shares, the voting of the shares shall be divided equally among those persons.
(b) . Every proxy shall be in a form approved by the secretary of the corporation or as otherwise provided by the Business Corporation Law.
Form of Proxy
(c) . A proxy, unless coupled with an interest, shall be revocable at will, notwithstanding any other agreement or any provision in the proxy to the contrary, but the revocation of a proxy shall not be effective until written notice thereof has been given to the secretary of the corporation. An unrevoked proxy shall not be valid after three years from the date of its execution unless a longer time is expressly provided therein. A proxy shall not be revoked by the death or incapacity of the maker unless, before the vote is counted or the authority is exercised, written notice of the death or incapacity is given to the secretary of the corporation.
Revocation
(d) . The corporation shall pay the reasonable expenses of solicitation of votes or proxies of shareholders by or on behalf of the board of directors or its nominees for election to the board, including solicitation by professional proxy solicitors and otherwise.
Expenses
Section 3.09 . Shares of the corporation standing in the name of a trustee or other fiduciary and shares held by an assignee for the benefit of creditors or by a receiver may be voted by the trustee, fiduciary, assignee or receiver. A shareholder
Voting by Fiduciaries and Pledgees
 
whose shares are pledged shall be entitled to vote the shares until the shares have been transferred into the name of the pledgee, or a nominee of the pledgee, but nothing in this Section shall affect the validity of a proxy given to a pledgee or nominee.
Section 3.10 .
Voting by Joint Holders of Shares
(a) . Where shares of the corporation are held jointly or as tenants in common by two or more persons, as fiduciaries or otherwise:
General Rule
(1) if only one or more of such persons is present in person or by proxy, all of the shares standing in the names of such persons shall be deemed to be represented for the purpose of determining a quorum and the corporation shall accept as the vote of all the shares the vote cast by a joint owner or a majority of them; and
(2) if the persons are equally divided upon whether the shares held by them shall be voted or upon the manner of voting the shares, the voting of the shares shall be divided equally among the persons without prejudice to the rights of the joint owners or the beneficial owners thereof among themselves.
(b) . If there has been filed with the secretary of the corporation a copy, certified by an attorney-at-law to be correct, of the relevant portions of the agreement under which the shares are held or the instrument by which the trust or estate was created or the order of court appointing them or of an order of court directing the voting of the shares, the persons specified as having such voting power in the latest document so filed, and only those persons, shall be entitled to vote the shares but only in accordance therewith.
Exception
Section 3.11 .
Voting by Corporations
(a) . Any domestic or foreign corporation for profit or not-for-profit that is a shareholder of this corporation may vote at meetings of shareholders of this corporation by any of its officers or agents, or by proxy appointed by any officer or agent, unless some other person, by resolution of the board of directors of the other corporation or a provision of its articles or bylaws, a copy of which resolution or provision certified to be correct by one of its officers has been filed with the secretary of this corporation, is appointed its general or special proxy in which case that person shall be entitled to vote the shares.
Voting by Corporate Shareholders
(b) . Shares of this corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by it and controlled, directly or indirectly, by the board of directors of this corporation, as such, shall not be voted at any meeting and shall not be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares for voting purposes at any given time.
Controlled Shares
Section 3.12 .
Determination of Shareholders of Record
(a) . The board of directors may fix a time prior to the date of any meeting of shareholders as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, or to vote at, the meeting, which time, except as otherwise provided in the articles or in the case of an adjourned meeting, shall be not more than 90 calendar days prior to the date of the
Fixing Record Date
 
meeting of shareholders. Only shareholders of record on the date fixed shall be so entitled notwithstanding any transfer of shares on the books of the corporation after any record date fixed as provided in this Subsection. The board of directors may similarly fix a record date for the determination of shareholders of record for any other purpose, except that the record date fixed to determine the holders of Preferred Stock entitled to receive dividends thereon shall not precede the respective dividend payment date by more than 40 calendar days. When a determination of shareholders of record has been made as provided in this Section for purposes of a meeting, the determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof unless the board fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(b) . If a record date is not fixed:
Determination When Record Date Is Not Fixed
(1) The record date for determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given.
(2) The record date for determining shareholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
(c) . The board of directors may adopt a procedure whereby a shareholder of the corporation may certify in writing to the corporation that all or a portion of the shares registered in the name of the shareholder are held for the account of a specified person or persons. Upon receipt by the corporation of a certification complying with the procedure, the persons specified in the certification shall be deemed, for the purposes set forth in the certification, to be the holders of record of the number of shares specified in place of the shareholder making the certification.
Certification by Nominee
Section 3.13 .
Voting Lists
(a) . The officer or agent having charge of the transfer books for shares of the corporation shall make a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of and the number of shares held by each. The list shall be produced and kept open at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting for the purposes thereof except that, if the corporation has 5,000 or more shareholders, in lieu of the making of the list the corporation may make the information therein available at the meeting by any other means.
General Rule
(b) . Failure to comply with the requirements of this Section shall not affect the validity of any action taken at a meeting prior to a demand at the meeting by any shareholder entitled to vote thereat to examine the list. The original share register or transfer book, or a duplicate thereof kept in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, shall be prima facie evidence as to who are the shareholders entitled to examine the list or share register or transfer book or to vote at any meeting of shareholders.
Effect of List
 
Section 3.14 .
Judges of Election
(a) . In advance of any meeting of shareholders of the corporation, the board of directors may appoint judges of election, who need not be shareholders, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof. If judges of election are not so appointed, the presiding officer of the meeting may appoint judges of election at the meeting. The number of judges shall be one or three. A person who is a candidate for an office to be filled at the meeting shall not act as a judge.
Appointment
(b) . In case any person appointed as a judge fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, the vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the board of directors in advance of the convening of the meeting or at the meeting by the presiding officer thereof.
Vacancies
(c) . The judges of election shall determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the authenticity, validity and effect of proxies, receive votes or ballots, hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all votes, determine the result and do such acts as may be proper to conduct the election or vote. The judges of election shall perform their duties impartially, in good faith, to the best of their ability and as expeditiously as is practical. If there are three judges of election, the decision, act or certificate of a majority shall be effective in all respects as the decision, act or certificate of all.
Duties
(d) . On request of the presiding officer of the meeting or of any shareholder, the judges shall make a report in writing of any challenge or question or matter determined by them, and execute a certificate of any fact found by them. Any report or certificate made by them shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
Report
Section 3.15 . The corporation may treat a minor who holds shares or obligations of the corporation as having capacity to receive and to empower others to receive dividends, interest, principal and other payments or distributions, to vote or express consent or dissent and to make elections and exercise rights relating to such shares or obligations unless, in the case of payments or distributions on shares, the corporate officer responsible for maintaining the list of shareholders or the transfer agent of the corporation or, in the case of payments or distributions on obligations, the treasurer or paying officer or agent has received written notice that the holder is a minor.
Minors as Security Holders
Section 4.01 .
Powers
(a) . Unless otherwise provided by statute, all powers vested by law in the corporation shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed under the direction of, the board of directors.
General Rule
 
(b) .
Personal Liability of Directors
(1) A director shall not be personally liable, as such, for monetary damages (including, without limitation, any judgment, amount paid in settlement, penalty, punitive damages or expenses of any nature, including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and disbursements) for any action taken, or any failure to take any action before, on or after the date of these bylaws, unless:
(i) the director has breached or failed to perform the duties of his or her office under Subchapter B of Chapter 17 of the Business Corporation Law; and
(ii) the breach or failure to perform constitutes self-dealing, willful misconduct or recklessness.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall not apply to the responsibility or liability of a director pursuant to any criminal statute, or the liability of a director for the payment of taxes pursuant to local, State or Federal law.
(3) No amendment or repeal of this Section 4.01 shall have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the corporation for or with respect to any such act on the part of such director occurring prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal.
(c) . A director shall stand in a fiduciary relation to the corporation and shall perform his duties as a director, including his duties as a member of any committee of the board upon which he may serve, in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the corporation and with such care, including reasonable inquiry, skill and diligence, as a person of ordinary prudence would use under similar circumstances. In performing his duties, a director shall be entitled to rely in good faith on information, opinions, reports or statements, including financial statements and other financial data, in each case prepared or presented by any of the following:
Directors
(1) One or more officers or employees of the corporation whom the director reasonably believes to be reliable and competent in the matters presented.
(2) Counsel, public accountants or other persons as to matters which the director reasonably believes to be within the professional or expert competence of such person.
(3) A committee of the board upon which he does not serve, duly designated in accordance with law, as to matters within its designated authority, which committee the director reasonably believes to merit confidence.
Section 4.02 .
Qualifications and Selection of Directors
(a) . Each director of the corporation shall be a natural person of full age who need not be a resident of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or a shareholder of the
Qualifications
 
corporation, except as may be required under corporate governance principles approved by the board of directors. For purposes of Section 4.05, a director's failure to hold the number of shares as and when required under corporate governance principles approved by the board of directors shall constitute cause for such director's removal.
(b) . Nominations for election of directors may be made by any shareholder entitled to vote for the election of directors if timely written notice in proper form (the "Notice") of the shareholder's intent to nominate a director at the meeting is given by the shareholder and received by the secretary of the corporation. All nominations for election of directors, whether or not the proposed nomination is to be included in the corporation's proxy statement, shall be made in accordance with this Section. To be timely, a shareholder's Notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 120 calendar days before the first anniversary of the date on which the corporation first mailed its proxy materials for the prior year's annual meeting of shareholders; provided, however, that in the event that public announcement of the date of the annual meeting is not made at least 75 calendar days prior to the date of the annual meeting, Notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 10th calendar day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the annual meeting. In order to nominate one or more persons for election as a director, a shareholder must comply with the requirement to provide the Notice as required by this Section, and no action of the corporation, including without limitation, the provision of notice to the shareholders or the delivery or filing of a proxy statement by the corporation, shall be deemed to satisfy this requirement for any shareholder or nomination. The requirements of this Subsection shall not apply to a nomination for directors made to the shareholders by the board of directors or a committee thereof.
Notice of Certain Nominations Required
(c) . To be in proper written form, the Notice shall be in writing and shall contain or be accompanied by:
Contents of Notice
(1) the name and residence address of the nominating shareholder and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made;
(2) a representation that the shareholder giving the Notice is a holder of record of voting stock of the corporation entitled to vote at such annual meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the Notice;
(3) the class and number of shares of voting stock of the corporation and any other ownership interests, including derivatives, hedged positions and other economic or voting interests in the corporation owned beneficially and of record by the shareholder giving the Notice and by the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made;
(4) such information regarding each nominee as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to Regulation 14A of the rules and regulations established by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Exchange Act (or pursuant to any successor act or regulation) had proxies been solicited with respect to such nominee by the management or board of directors of the corporation;
 
(5) a representation as to whether the shareholder giving the Notice intends to deliver a proxy statement to the other shareholders of the corporation;
(6) a description of all arrangements or understandings between or among any of (A) the shareholder giving the Notice, (B) the beneficial owner on whose behalf the Notice is given, (C) each nominee, and (D) any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder giving the Notice;
(7) a description of all arrangements or understandings among the shareholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder;
(8) a representation by (A) the shareholder giving the Notice, (B) the beneficial owner or any other person(s) on whose behalf the Notice is given and (C) each nominee, providing that such person does not and will not have any undisclosed voting commitments or other arrangements with respect to a nominee's actions as a director;
(9) a representation that each nominee meets the objective criteria for "independence" under applicable New York Stock Exchange listing standards and any additional objective criteria for "independence" under corporate governance principles approved by the board of directors; and
(10) the signed consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the corporation if so elected and to be bound by Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the bylaws.
(d) . The presiding officer of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that any nomination made at the meeting was not made in accordance with the procedures of this Section and, in such event, the presiding officer will so declare to the meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. Any such decision by the presiding officer shall be conclusive and binding upon all shareholders of the corporation for any purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, a shareholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder, with respect to the matters set forth in this Section or otherwise relating to the nomination of directors by shareholders.
Determination of Compliance
(e) . Except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, directors of the corporation shall be elected by the shareholders only at an annual meeting of shareholders, unless such election of directors is required by the terms of any series of Preferred Stock. In elections for directors, voting need not be by ballot, unless required by vote of the shareholders before the voting for election of directors begins. In an election of directors, where the board of directors determines that the number of nominees exceeds the number of directorships to be filled, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast, even if the number of nominees does not exceed the number of directorships to be filled at the time of any meeting for such election. Except as otherwise provided in the preceding sentence, if in an election of directors in which the number of nominees does not exceed the number of directors to be elected, any nominee who is not an incumbent director receives a plurality of the votes cast but does not
Election of Directors
 
receive a majority of the votes cast, the resignation of such nominee referred to in Section 4.03 will be automatically accepted. If the nominee is an incumbent director who is standing for re-election and such nominee receives a plurality of the votes cast but does not receive a majority of the votes cast, the committee of the board authorized to nominate candidates for election to the board will make a recommendation to the board on whether to accept the director's resignation or whether other action should be taken. The director not receiving a majority of the votes cast will not participate in the committee's recommendation or the board's decision regarding the tendered resignation. The independent members of the board will consider the committee's recommendation and publicly disclose the board's decision and the basis for that decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the final election results. If less than two members of the committee are elected at a meeting for the election of directors, the independent members of the board who were elected shall consider and act upon the tendered resignation. For purposes of this paragraph, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" must exceed the number of shares voted "against" with respect to that director's election.
Section 4.03 .
Number and Term of Office
(a) . The board of directors shall consist of such number of directors as may be determined from time to time by resolution of a majority of the Whole Board.
Number
(b) . Each director shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which he or she was selected and until a successor has been selected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal. A decrease in the number of directors shall not have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director.
Term of Office
(c) . Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the corporation. The resignation shall be effective upon receipt thereof by the corporation or at such subsequent time as shall be specified in the notice of resignation.
ResignationGeneral
(d) . Each director who is nominated to stand for election shall, as a condition to such nomination, tender an irrevocable resignation in advance of the meeting for the election of directors. Such resignation will be effective if, pursuant to Section 4.02(e) of these bylaws, (a) the director does not receive a majority vote at the next meeting for the election of directors, and (b) in the case of a nominee who is an incumbent director, the board accepts the resignation.
Irrevocable Resignation
(e) . The directors shall not be classified in respect to the time for which they shall hold office. Except as otherwise provided in the express terms of any class or series of Preferred Stock with respect to the election of directors upon the occurrence of a default in the payment of dividends or in the performance of another express requirement of the terms of such Preferred Stock, from and after the 2008 annual meeting of the shareholders, the directors of the Corporation shall be elected at each annual meeting of the shareholders for a one-year term expiring at the next annual meeting of the shareholders; provided that any director who was elected prior to the 2008 annual meeting of the shareholders for a term that extends until after the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders shall not be required to stand for election, and shall continue as a director until the annual meeting at which the director's term expires.
Annual Election of Board of Directors
 
Section 4.04 .
Vacancies
(a) . Except as otherwise provided in the terms of the Preferred Stock, vacancies in the board of directors, including vacancies resulting from an increase in the number of directors, may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining members of the board though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and each person so selected shall be a director to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders, and until a successor has been selected and qualified or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
General Rule
(b) . When one or more directors resign from the board effective at a future date, the directors then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power by the applicable vote to fill the vacancies, the vote thereon to take effect when the resignations become effective.
Action by Resigned Directors
Section 4.05 .
Removal of Directors
(a) . The entire board of directors or any individual director may be removed from office by vote of the shareholders entitled to vote thereon only for cause. In case the board or any one or more directors are so removed, new directors may be elected at the same meeting. The repeal of a provision of the articles or bylaws prohibiting, or the addition of a provision to the articles or bylaws permitting, the removal by the shareholders of the board or a director without assigning any cause shall not apply to any incumbent director during the balance of the term for which the director was elected.
Removal by the Shareholders
(b) . The board of directors may declare vacant the office of a director who has been judicially declared of unsound mind or who has been convicted of an offense punishable by imprisonment for a term of more than one year or if, within 60 days after notice of his or her selection, the director does not accept the office either in writing or by attending a meeting of the board of directors.
Removal by the Board
Section 4.06 . Meetings of the board of directors may be held at such place within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as the board of directors may from time to time appoint or as may be designated in the notice of the meeting.
Place of Meetings
Section 4.07 . At every meeting of the board of directors, the chairman of the board, if there be one, or, in the case of a vacancy in the office or absence of the chairman of the board, the chairman of the corporate governance committee, or, in the case of a vacancy in the office or absence of both the chairman of the board and the chairman of the corporate governance committee, one of the following officers present in the order stated: the chief executive officer, the president, the vice presidents in their order of rank and seniority, or a person chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall act as chairman of the meeting. The secretary or, in the absence of the secretary, an assistant secretary, or, in the absence of the secretary and the assistant secretaries, any person appointed by the chairman of the meeting, shall act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization of Meetings
Section 4.08 . Regular meetings of the board of directors shall be held at such time and place as shall be designated from time to time by resolution of the board of directors.
Regular Meetings
 
Section 4.09 . Special meetings of the board of directors shall be held whenever called by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, if there be one, the Lead Director, if there be one, or by two or more of the directors.
Special Meetings
Section 4.10 .
Quorum of and Action by Directors
(a) . A majority of the directors in office of the corporation shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and except as otherwise provided in these bylaws the acts of a majority of the directors present and voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the acts of the board of directors.
General Rule
(b) . Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the directors may be taken without a meeting if, prior or subsequent to the action, a consent or consents thereto by all of the directors in office is filed with the secretary of the corporation.
Action by Written Consent
(c) . A director who is present at a meeting of the board of directors, or of a committee of the board, at which action on any corporate matter is taken shall be presumed to have assented to the action taken unless his or her dissent is entered in the minutes of the meeting or unless the director files a written dissent to the action with the secretary of the meeting before the adjournment thereof or transmits the dissent in writing to the secretary of the corporation immediately after the adjournment of the meeting. The right to dissent shall not apply to a director who voted in favor of the action. Nothing in this Section shall bar a director from asserting that minutes of the meeting incorrectly omitted his or her dissent if, promptly upon receipt of a copy of such minutes, the director notifies the secretary, in writing, of the asserted omission or inaccuracy.
Notation of Dissent
Section 4.11 .
Committees of the Board
(a) . The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the directors in office, establish one or more committees to consist of one or more directors of the corporation. Any committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board of directors, shall have and may exercise all of the powers and authority of the board of directors except that a committee shall not have any power or authority as to the following:
Establishment and Powers
(1) The submission to shareholders of any action requiring approval of shareholders under the Business Corporation Law.
(2) The creation or filling of vacancies in the board of directors.
(3) The adoption, amendment or repeal of these bylaws.
(4) The amendment or repeal of any resolution of the board that by its terms is amendable or repealable only by the board.
(5) Action on matters committed by a resolution of the board of directors to another committee of the board.
 
(b) . The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee or for the purposes of any written action by the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member and alternate member or members of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another director to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member.
Alternate Committee Members
(c) . Each committee of the board shall serve at the pleasure of the board.
Term
(d) . The term "board of directors" or "board," when used in any provision of these bylaws relating to the organization or procedures of or the manner of taking action by the board of directors, shall be construed to include and refer to any executive or other committee of the board.
Committee Procedures
Section 4.12 . The board of directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors for their services as directors and a director may be a salaried officer of the corporation.
Compensation
Section 4.13 . The board of directors shall have the authority to elect a Lead Director with the responsibilities set forth in the corporation's Corporate Governance Principles.
Lead Director
Section 5.01 .
Officers Generally
(a) . The officers of the corporation shall be a chairman of the board (who must be a member of the board of directors), president, one or more vice presidents (which term shall include vice presidents, executive vice presidents and senior vice presidents), a secretary, a treasurer, and a chief executive officer , as the board of directors may designate by resolution, and such other officers as may be elected in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.03. Officers may but need not be directors or shareholders of the corporation. The president, secretary and treasurer shall be natural persons of full age. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Number, Qualifications and Designation
(b) . The corporation may secure the fidelity of any or all of its officers by bond or otherwise.
Bonding
Section 5.02 .
Election, Term of Office and Resignations
(a) . The officers of the corporation, except those elected by delegated authority pursuant to Section 5.03, shall be elected by the board of directors, and each such officer shall hold office at the discretion of the board until his or her death, resignation or removal with or without cause.
Election and Term of Office
 
(b) . Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the corporation. The resignation shall be effective upon receipt thereof by the corporation or at such subsequent time as may be specified in the notice of resignation.
Resignations
Section 5.03 . The board of directors may from time to time elect such other officers and appoint such committees, employees or other agents as the business of the corporation may require, including without limitation, one or more vice presidents, one or more assistant secretaries, and one or more assistant treasurers, each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as are provided in these bylaws, or as the board of directors may from time to time determine. The board of directors may delegate to any officer or committee the power to elect subordinate officers and to retain or appoint employees or other agents, or committees thereof, and to prescribe the authority and duties of such subordinate officers, committees, employees or other agents.
Subordinate Officers, Committees and Agents
Section 5.04 . Any officer or agent of the corporation may be removed by the board of directors with or without cause. The removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of any person so removed. Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights.
Removal of Officers and Agents
Section 5.05 . A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification, or any other cause, may be filled by the board of directors or by the officer or committee to which the power to fill such office has been delegated pursuant to Section 5.03, as the case may be, and if the office is one for which these bylaws prescribe a term, shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term.
Vacancies
Section 5.06 .
Authority
(a) . All officers of the corporation, as between themselves and the corporation, shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the corporation as may be provided by or pursuant to resolutions or orders of the board of directors or, in the absence of controlling provisions in the resolutions or orders of the board of directors, as may be determined by or pursuant to these bylaws.
General Rule
(b) . The board of directors may designate from time to time by resolution a chief executive officer. Such chief executive officer may be, but need not be, the president or chairman of the board.
Chief Executive Officer
Section 5.07 . Except as otherwise provided by these bylaws or by action of the board of directors, the chairman of the board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the board of directors. The chairman of the board shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be requested by the board of directors. In addition, the board of directors may designate by resolution a vice chairman of the board with such duties as may from time to time be requested by the board of directors. The chairman of the board or the vice chairman of the board, if there be one, may be an employee of the corporation, but need not be so employed, and may hold any other office of the corporation as from time to time may be determined by the board of directors.
Chairman of the Board; Vice Chairman of the Board
 
Section 5.08 . The chief executive officer, if there be one, may have general supervision over the business and operations of the corporation, subject however, to the control of the board of directors. Such chief executive officer may sign, execute, and acknowledge, in the name of the corporation, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments, authorized by the board of directors, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the board of directors, or by these bylaws, to some other officer or agent of the corporation; and, in general, may perform all duties incident to the office of chief executive officer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the board of directors.
The Chief Executive Officer
Section 5.09 . The president may have general supervision over the business and operations of the corporation, subject however, to the control of the board of directors and the chief executive officer, as applicable. The president may sign, execute, and acknowledge, in the name of the corporation, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments, authorized by the board of directors, except in cases where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the board of directors, or by these bylaws, to some other officer or agent of the corporation; and, in general, may perform all duties incident to the office of president and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the board of directors and the chief executive officer, as applicable.
The President
Section 5.10 . The vice presidents (which term shall include vice presidents, executive vice presidents and senior vice presidents) shall perform such duties as may from time to time be assigned to them by the board of directors or by the chief executive officer.
The Vice Presidents
Section 5.11 . The secretary or an assistant secretary shall attend all meetings of the shareholders and of the board of directors and shall record all the votes of the shareholders and of the directors and the minutes of the meetings of the shareholders and of the board of directors and of committees of the board in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; shall see that notices are given and records and reports properly kept and filed by the corporation as required by law; shall be the custodian of the seal of the corporation and see that it is affixed to all documents to be executed on behalf of the corporation under its seal; and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of secretary, and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the board of directors or by the chief executive officer.
The Secretary
Section 5.12 . The treasurer or an assistant treasurer shall have or provide for the custody of the funds or other property of the corporation; shall collect and receive or provide for the collection and receipt of moneys earned by or in any manner due to or received by the corporation; shall deposit all funds in his, or its custody as treasurer in such banks or other places of deposit as the board of directors may from time to time designate; shall, whenever so required by the board of directors, render an account showing all transactions as treasurer, and the financial condition of the corporation; and, in general, shall discharge such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the board of directors or by the chief executive officer.
The Treasurer
Section 5.13 . The salaries of the officers elected by the board of directors shall be fixed from time to time by the board of directors or by such officer or committee as may be designated by resolution of the board. The salaries or other compensation of any other officers, employees and other agents shall be fixed from time to time by the officer or committee to which the power to elect such officers or to retain or appoint such employees or other agents has been delegated pursuant to Section 5.03. No officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary or other compensation by reason of the fact that the officer is also a director of the corporation.
Salaries
 
Section 6.01 .
Share Certificates
(a) . Certificates for shares of the corporation shall be in such form as approved by the board of directors, and shall state that the corporation is incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the name of the person to whom issued, and the number and class of shares and the designation of the series (if any) that the certificate represents. Certificates for shares of the corporation shall set forth upon the face or back of the certificate (or shall state on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation will furnish to any shareholder upon request and without charge), a full or summary statement of the designations, voting rights, preferences, limitations and special rights of the shares of each class or series authorized to be issued so far as they have been fixed and determined and the authority of the board of directors to fix and determine the designations, voting rights, preferences, limitations and special rights of the classes and series of shares of the corporation.
Form of Certificates
(b) . The share register or transfer books and blank share certificates shall be kept by the treasurer or by any transfer agent or registrar designated by the board of directors for that purpose.
Share Register
Section 6.02 . The share certificates of the corporation shall be numbered and registered in the share register or transfer books of the corporation as they are issued. They shall be executed in such manner as the board of directors shall determine.
Issuance
Section 6.03 . Transfers of shares shall be made on the share register or transfer books of the corporation upon surrender of the certificate therefor, endorsed by the person named in the certificate or by an attorney lawfully constituted in writing. No transfer shall be made inconsistent with the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code, 13 Pa.C.S.  8101 et seq., and its amendments and supplements.
Transfer
Section 6.04 . The corporation shall be entitled to treat the person in whose name any share or shares of the corporation stand on the books of the corporation as the absolute owner thereof, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such share or shares on the part of any other person.
Record Holder of Shares
Section 6.05 . The holder of any shares of the corporation shall immediately notify the corporation of any loss, destruction or mutilation of the certificate therefor, and the officers of the corporation may, in their discretion, cause a new certificate or certificates to be issued to such holder, in case of mutilation of the certificate, upon the surrender of the mutilated certificate or, in case of loss or destruction of the certificate, upon satisfactory proof of such loss or destruction and, if such officers shall so determine, the deposit of a bond in such form and in such sum, and with such surety or sureties, as any of them may direct.
Lost, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates
 
Section 7.01 . Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or an officer of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter an "indemnitee"), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the corporation to the fullest extent permitted or required by the Business Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than such law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith; provided, however, that, except as provided in Section 7.03 of this Article VII with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the board of directors of the corporation.
Right to Indemnification
Section 7.02 . The right to indemnification conferred in Section 7.01 of this Article VII shall include the right to be paid by the corporation the expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter an "advancement of expenses"); provided, however, that, if the Business Corporation Law so requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such indemnitee, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking (hereinafter an "undertaking"), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter a "final adjudication") that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Section 7.02 or otherwise. The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in Sections 7.01 and 7.02 of this Article VII shall be contract rights and such rights shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee's heirs, executors and administrators. Any repeal, amendment or modification hereof shall be prospective only and shall not affect any rights or obligations then existing. Each person who shall act as an indemnitee of the corporation shall be deemed to be doing so in reliance upon the rights provided by this Article.
Right to Advancement of Expenses
Section 7.03 . If a claim under Section 7.01 or 7.02 of this Article VII is not paid in full by the corporation within 60 calendar days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit
 
expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be 20 calendar days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In (i) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) any suit brought by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the Business Corporation Law. Neither the failure of the corporation (including its board of directors, independent legal counsel or shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Business Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its board of directors, independent legal counsel or shareholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or brought by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article VII or otherwise shall be on the corporation.
Section 7.04 . The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Article VII shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, the articles, these bylaws, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
Section 7.05 . The corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Business Corporation Law.
Insurance
Section 7.06 . The corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the board of directors, grant rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to any employee or agent of the corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the corporation.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Corporation
Section 7.07 . The provisions of this Article are intended to constitute bylaws authorized by Section 1746 of the Business Corporation Law.
Interpretation
 
Section 8.01 . This Article shall be applicable during any emergency resulting from a catastrophe as a result of which a quorum of the board of directors cannot readily be assembled. To the extent not in conflict with this Article, these bylaws shall remain in effect during the emergency.
Scope of Article
Section 8.02 . A special meeting of the board of directors may be called by any director by means feasible at the time.
Special Meetings of the Board
Section 8.03 .
Emergency Committee of the Board
(a) . The emergency committee of the board shall consist of nine persons standing highest on the following list who are available and able to act:
Composition
The chief executive officer.
Members of the board of directors.
President.
The individual who, immediately prior to the emergency, was the senior officer in charge of nuclear operations.
The individual who, immediately prior to the emergency, was the senior officer in charge of other operations.
The individual who, immediately prior to the emergency, was the senior officer in charge of finance operations.
Other officers.
Where more than one person holds any of the listed ranks, the order of precedence shall be determined by length of time in rank. Each member of the emergency committee thus constituted shall continue to act until replaced by an individual standing higher on the list. The emergency committee shall continue to act until a quorum of the board of directors is available and able to act. If the corporation has no directors, the emergency committee shall cause a special meeting of shareholders for the election of directors to be called and held as soon as practicable.
(b) . The emergency committee shall have and may exercise all of the powers and authority of the board of directors, including the power to fill a vacancy in any office of the corporation or to designate a temporary replacement for any officer of the corporation who is unavailable, but shall not have the power to fill vacancies in the board of directors.
Powers
(c) . A majority of the members of the emergency committee in office shall constitute a quorum.
Quorum
(d) . Each member of the emergency committee who is not a director shall during his or her service as such be entitled to the rights and immunities conferred by law, the articles and these bylaws upon directors of the corporation and upon persons acting in good faith as a representative of the corporation during an emergency.
Status
 
Section 9.01 . The corporation may have a corporate seal in the form of a circle containing the name of the corporation, the year of incorporation and such other details as may be approved by the board of directors from time to time.
Corporate Seal
Section 9.02 . All checks, notes, bills of exchange or other orders in writing shall be signed by such person or persons as the board of directors or any person authorized by resolution of the board of directors may from time to time designate.
Checks
Section 9.03 . Except as otherwise provided in the Business Corporation Law in the case of transactions that require action by the shareholders, the board of directors may authorize any officer or agent to enter into any contract or to execute or deliver any instrument on behalf of the corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Contracts
Section 9.04 .
Interested Directors or Officers; Quorum
(a) . A contract or transaction between the corporation and one or more of its directors or officers or between the corporation and another domestic or foreign corporation for profit or not-for-profit, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers or have a financial or other interest, shall not be void or voidable solely for that reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the board of directors that authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his, her or their votes are counted for that purpose, if:
General Rule
(1) the material facts as to the relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the board of directors and the board authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors even though the disinterested directors are less than a quorum;
(2) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the shareholders entitled to vote thereon and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of those shareholders; or
(3) the contract or transaction is fair as to the corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the board of directors or the shareholders.
(b) . Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the board which authorizes a contract or transaction specified in Subsection (a).
Quorum
Section 9.05 . All funds of the corporation shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the board of directors may approve or designate, and all such funds shall be withdrawn only upon checks signed by such one or more officers or employees as the board of directors shall from time to time determine.
Deposits
 
Section 9.06 .
Corporate Records
(a) . The corporation shall keep complete and accurate books and records of account, minutes of the proceedings of the incorporators, shareholders and directors and a share register giving the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each. The share register shall be kept at either the registered office of the corporation in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or at its principal place of business wherever situated or at the office of its registrar or transfer agent. Any books, minutes or other records may be in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time.
Required Records
(b) . Every shareholder shall, upon written verified demand stating the purpose thereof, have a right to examine, in person or by agent or attorney, during the usual hours for business for any proper purpose, the share register, books and records of account, and records of the proceedings of the incorporators, shareholders and directors and to make copies or extracts therefrom. A proper purpose shall mean a purpose reasonably related to the interest of the person as a shareholder. In every instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right of inspection, the demand shall be accompanied by a verified power of attorney or other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of the shareholder. The demand shall be directed to the corporation at its registered office in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or at its principal place of business wherever situated.
Right of Inspection
Section 9.07 .
Amendment of Bylaws
(a) . Except as otherwise provided in the express terms of any series of the shares of the corporation, any one or more of the foregoing bylaws and, except as otherwise stated in this Section 9.07(a), any other bylaws made by the board of directors or shareholders may be altered or repealed by the board of directors. The shareholders or the board of directors may adopt new bylaws except that the board of directors may not adopt, alter or repeal bylaws that the Business Corporation Law specifies may be adopted only by shareholders, and the board of directors may not alter or repeal any bylaw adopted by the shareholders that presumes that such bylaw shall not be altered or repealed by the board of directors.
General Rule
(b) . Any change in these bylaws shall take effect when adopted unless otherwise provided in the resolution effecting the change.
Effective Date
As amended effective March 12, 2012
 

Exhibit 4.1
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of March 12, 2012, by and between Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (the ""), as successor to Constellation Energy Group, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York banking corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Successor
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered an indenture, dated as of March 24, 1999, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated January 24, 2003 (together, the ""), providing for the issuance by the Company of certain debt securities of the Company;
Indenture
WHEREAS, under the Indenture the Company has previously issued $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7.60% Fixed-Rate Notes due 2032 and $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.55% Fixed-Rate Notes due 2015 (collectively, the "");
Securities
WHEREAS, on March 12, 2012, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 28, 2011, by and among the Successor, Bolt Acquisition Corporation, a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (""), and the Company, MergerSub was merged with and into the Company (the ""), with the Company surviving the Initial Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Successor;
MergerSub
Initial Merger
WHEREAS, on March 12, 2012, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 12, 2012, by and between the Company and the Successor, the Company was merged with and into the Successor (the ""), with the Successor surviving the Second Merger;
Second Merger
WHEREAS, in connection with the Second Merger, (a) Section 12.01 of the Indenture requires the Successor to expressly assume by supplemental indenture the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if necessary) and interest, if any, on all of the Securities and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Company and (b) Section 12.02 of the Indenture provides that upon execution and delivery of the supplemental indenture, the Successor, as successor corporation, shall be substituted for the Company for purposes of the Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 11.01 of the Indenture, without the consent of the holders of the Securities, the Successor and the Trustee may enter into this Supplemental Indenture to evidence the succession of the Successor to the Company and the assumption by the Successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company in the Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Successor has been duly authorized to enter into this Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Successor has delivered to the Trustee the Officers' Certificate specified in Section 11.05 containing, as applicable, the statements set forth in Section 16.05 of the Indenture, and the Opinion of Counsel specified in Sections 11.05 and 12.03 of the Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions, proceedings and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal agreement enforceable in accordance with its terms for
the purposes expressed herein, in accordance with its terms, have been duly done and performed.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, each of the Successor and the Trustee covenants and agrees for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of the Securities as follows:
1. . Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
2. .
Successor
(a) Upon consummation of the Second Merger, in accordance with Sections 11.01 and Article 12 of the Indenture, the Successor hereby expressly assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all of the Securities, according to their tenor, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Company.
(b) By this Supplemental Indenture, the Successor hereby succeeds to and is substituted for the Company for purposes of the Indenture, with the same effect as if it had been named in such Indenture as the Company.
3. .Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or act by holders of Securities or other document provided or permitted by the Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, the Successor by the Trustee or by any holder of Securities shall be sufficient for every purpose under the Indenture (unless otherwise expressly therein provided) if in writing and mailed, first class postage prepaid to the Successor addressed to it at c/o Exelon Corporation, 10 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention: General Counsel, or at any other address previously furnished to the Trustee by the Successor.
Notices, etc. to the Successor
4. . Except as expressly amended hereby, the Indenture and the Securities are in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every holder of the Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered shall be bound hereby. The Trustee makes no representation or warranty as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or with respect to the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the other parties hereto.
Effects of the Indenture and the Securities
5. . In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability.
Severability
6. . THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE OR INSTRUMENTS ENTERED INTO AND PERFORMED IN SAID STATE.
GOVERNING LAW
7. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
8. . The section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of March 12, 2012, by and between Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (the ""), as successor to Constellation Energy Group, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Successor
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered an indenture, dated as of July 24, 2006, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated June 27, 2008 (together, the ""), providing for the issuance by the Company of certain debt securities of the Company;
Indenture
WHEREAS, under the Indenture the Company has previously issued $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 8.625% Series A Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2063 (the "");
Securities
WHEREAS, on March 12, 2012, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 28, 2011, by and among the Successor, Bolt Acquisition Corporation, a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (""), and the Company, MergerSub was merged with and into the Company (the ""), with the Company surviving the Initial Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Successor;
MergerSub
Initial Merger
WHEREAS, on March 12, 2012, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 12, 2012, by and between the Company and the Successor, the Company was merged with and into the Successor (the ""), with the Successor surviving the Second Merger;
Second Merger
WHEREAS, in connection with the Second Merger, (a) Section 12.01 of the Indenture requires the Successor to expressly assume by supplemental indenture the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if necessary) and interest, if any, on all of the Securities and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Company and (b) Section 12.02 of the Indenture provides that upon execution and delivery of the supplemental indenture, the Successor, as successor corporation, shall be substituted for the Company for purposes of the Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 11.01 of the Indenture, without the consent of the holders of the Securities, the Successor and the Trustee may enter into this Supplemental Indenture to evidence the succession of the Successor to the Company and the assumption by the Successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company in the Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Successor has been duly authorized to enter into this Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Successor has delivered to the Trustee the Officers' Certificate specified in Section 11.05 containing, as applicable, the statements set forth in Section 17.05 of the Indenture, and the Opinion of Counsel specified in Sections 11.05 and 12.03 of the Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions, proceedings and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal agreement enforceable in accordance with its terms for the purposes expressed herein, in accordance with its terms, have been duly done and performed.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, each of the Successor and the Trustee covenants and agrees for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of the Securities as follows:
1. . Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
2. .
Successor
(a) Upon consummation of the Second Merger, in accordance with Sections 11.01 and Article 12 of the Indenture, the Successor hereby expressly assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all of the Securities, according to their tenor, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants, obligations and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Company.
(b) By this Supplemental Indenture, the Successor hereby succeeds to and is substituted for the Company for purposes of the Indenture, with the same effect as if it had been named in such Indenture as the Company.
3. .Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or act by holders of Securities or other document provided or permitted by the Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, the Successor by the Trustee or by any holder of Securities shall be sufficient for every purpose under the Indenture (unless otherwise expressly therein provided) if in writing and mailed, first class postage prepaid to the Successor addressed to it at c/o Exelon Corporation, 10 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention: General Counsel, or at any other address previously furnished to the Trustee by the Successor.
Notices, etc. to the Successor
4. . Except as expressly amended hereby, the Indenture and the Securities are in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every holder of the Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered shall be bound hereby. The Trustee makes no representation or warranty as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or with respect to the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the other parties hereto.
Effects of the Indenture and the Securities
5. . In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability.
Severability
6. . THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE OR INSTRUMENTS ENTERED INTO AND PERFORMED IN SAID STATE.
GOVERNING LAW
7. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
8. . The section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
9. . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Successor.
The Trustee
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.3
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of March 12, 2012, by and between Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (the ""), as successor to Constellation Energy Group, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the ""), and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Successor
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered an indenture, dated as of June 19, 2008 (the ""), providing for the issuance by the Company of certain debt securities of the Company;
Indenture
WHEREAS, under the Indenture the Company has previously issued $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.15% Notes due 2020 (the "");
Securities
WHEREAS, on March 12, 2012, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 28, 2011, by and among the Successor, Bolt Acquisition Corporation, a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (""), and the Company, MergerSub was merged with and into the Company (the ""), with the Company surviving the Initial Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Successor;
MergerSub
Initial Merger
WHEREAS, on March 12, 2012, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 12, 2012, by and between the Company and the Successor, the Company was merged with and into the Successor (the ""), with the Successor surviving the Second Merger;
Second Merger
WHEREAS, in connection with the Second Merger, (a) Section 12.01 of the Indenture requires the Successor to expressly assume by supplemental indenture the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if necessary) and interest, if any, on all of the Securities and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Company and (b) Section 12.02 of the Indenture provides that upon execution and delivery of the supplemental indenture, the Successor, as successor corporation, shall be substituted for the Company for purposes of the Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 11.01 of the Indenture, without the consent of the holders of the Securities, the Successor and the Trustee may enter into this Supplemental Indenture to evidence the succession of the Successor to the Company and the assumption by the Successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company in the Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Successor has been duly authorized to enter into this Supplemental Indenture;
WHEREAS, the Successor has delivered to the Trustee the Officers' Certificate specified in Section 11.05 containing, as applicable, the statements set forth in Section 17.05 of the Indenture, and the Opinion of Counsel specified in Sections 11.05 and 12.03 of the Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions, proceedings and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal agreement enforceable in accordance with its terms for the purposes expressed herein, in accordance with its terms, have been duly done and performed.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, each of the Successor and the Trustee covenants and agrees for the equal and ratable benefit of the holders of the Securities as follows:
1. . Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Capitalized Terms
2. .
Successor
(a) Upon consummation of the Second Merger, in accordance with Sections 11.01 and Article 12 of the Indenture, the Successor hereby expressly assumes the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all of the Securities, according to their tenor, and the due and punctual performance and observance of all of the covenants, obligations and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Company.
(b) By this Supplemental Indenture, the Successor hereby succeeds to and is substituted for the Company for purposes of the Indenture, with the same effect as if it had been named in such Indenture as the Company.
3. .Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or act by holders of Securities or other document provided or permitted by the Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, the Successor by the Trustee or by any holder of Securities shall be sufficient for every purpose under the Indenture (unless otherwise expressly therein provided) if in writing and mailed, first class postage prepaid to the Successor addressed to it at c/o Exelon Corporation, 10 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention: General Counsel, or at any other address previously furnished to the Trustee by the Successor.
Notices, etc. to the Successor
4. . Except as expressly amended hereby, the Indenture and the Securities are in all respects ratified and confirmed and all the terms, conditions and provisions thereof shall remain in full force and effect. This Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every holder of the Securities heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered shall be bound hereby. The Trustee makes no representation or warranty as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or with respect to the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the other parties hereto.
Effects of the Indenture and the Securities
5. . In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability.
Severability
6. . THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE OR INSTRUMENTS ENTERED INTO AND PERFORMED IN SAID STATE.
GOVERNING LAW
7. . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Counterparts
8. . The section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
9. . The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Successor.
The Trustee
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.4
EXECUTION COPY
AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of November 22, 2011 (this ""), to the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2010 (as amended, modified and supplemented as of the date hereof, the ""), among CONSTELLATION ENERGY GROUP, INC., a Maryland corporation, the LENDERS parties thereto and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, LC Bank and Swingline Lender.
Agreement
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS in connection with the proposed (i) acquisition of the Borrower by Exelon Corporation (""; and, together with the Borrower, the "") pursuant to a transaction in which the Borrower will become a wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiary of Exelon (the "") and (ii) disposition of the Borrower's interests in BGE to another Subsidiary of Exelon (the ""), the Borrower and the Majority Lenders, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, wish to amend and restate the Credit Agreement in the manner set forth herein.
Exelon
Loan Parties
Merger
BGE Spin-Off
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Each capitalized term used and not defined herein shall have the meaning assigned to it in the Credit Agreement. The provisions of Section 1.02 of the Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference herein, , so as to apply to this Agreement
Section
 
1.
Defined Terms
.
mutatis mutandis
.
Effective as of the Restatement Effective Date (as defined below), the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. Furthermore (and for the avoidance of doubt), effective as of the Restatement Effective Date, any Event of Default or Unmatured Default that would result from a Change in Control pursuant to the Merger or from the BGE Spin-Off is hereby waived.
Section 2.
Amendment and Restatement of the Credit Agreement; Waiver of Certain Events.
This Agreement will become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof duly executed by the Borrower and the Majority Lenders, and the amendment and restatement of the Credit Agreement and the waivers contemplated by Section 2 shall become effective as of the first date (the "") on which:
Section 3.
Effectiveness.
Restatement Effective Date
(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received a counterpart of a joinder agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit B (the ""), duly executed by Exelon.
Exelon Joinder Agreement
(b) The aggregate Commitments shall not be greater than $1,500,000,000.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received favorable written opinions (addressed to the Administrative Agent, the LC Banks, the Swingline Lender and the Lenders and dated as of the Restatement Effective Date) of Kirkland & Ellis LLP, counsel for the Borrower, and Ballard Spahr LLP, counsel for Exelon, substantially in the forms of Exhibits C and D hereto, respectively, and covering such other matters relating
to the Loan Parties, this Agreement, the Credit Agreement, as amended and restated hereby (the ""), the Exelon Guaranty or the transactions contemplated thereby as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request.
Amended Credit Agreement
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received (with each certificate, except as expressly noted below, dated the Restatement Effective Date) (i) certified copies of the articles or certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Borrower and of Exelon, together with all amendments and modifications thereto as of the Restatement Effective Date; (ii) a certificate of good standing for each Loan Party, issued no more than one week prior to the Restatement Effective Date by the Secretary of State of the state of such Loan Party's incorporation; (iii) certified copies of (A) resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower authorizing the execution and delivery by the Borrower of this Agreement and the performance by the Borrower of the Amended Credit Agreement, (B) resolutions of the Board of Directors of Exelon authorizing the execution and delivery by Exelon of the Exelon Joinder Agreement and the performance by Exelon of the Amended Credit Agreement, and (C) all other documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and Governmental Approvals with respect to the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Amended Credit Agreement, and by Exelon of the Joinder Agreement and the Amended Credit Agreement; and (iv) a certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of each Loan Party certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Loan Party authorized to sign (as applicable) this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered by such Loan Party hereunder (together with a certificate of another officer as to the incumbency and specimen signature of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary executing the certificate in this clause).
(e) The Merger shall have occurred, and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate (the statements in which shall be true), dated the Restatement Effective Date and signed by Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of the Borrower, confirming that (i) the Merger has occurred (or will occur substantially simultaneously upon the occurrence of the Restatement Effective Date), (ii) the representations of the Borrower set forth in the Amended Credit Agreement are true and correct on such date, and (iii) no Event of Default or Unmatured Default (in each case, as defined in the Amended Credit Agreement) has occurred and is continuing on such date.
(f) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate (the statements in which shall be true), dated the Restatement Effective Date and signed by Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of Exelon, confirming that the representations and warranties of Exelon set forth in the Amended Credit Agreement are true and correct on such date.
(g) The Administrative Agent shall have received satisfactory evidence that the representations, warranties, covenants and events of default in the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon, various financial institutions as lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent (as amended as of the Restatement Effective Date) conform substantially to the comparable provisions in the Amended Credit Agreement.
 
The Administrative Agent shall notify the parties hereto of the Restatement Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
(a) Except as expressly set forth herein, this Agreement shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the LC Banks, the Swingline Lender or the Lenders under the Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, all of which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect. Nothing herein shall be deemed to entitle any Loan Party to a consent to, or a waiver, amendment, modification or other change of, any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document in similar or different circumstances.
Section 4.
Effect of Agreement.
(b) Upon the occurrence of the Restatement Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall duly complete and distribute to the Borrower and the Lenders a revised Schedule I to the Credit Agreement specifying the Commitments of the Lenders and any other information of which the Administrative Agent has actual knowledge required to make Schedule I complete and accurate as of the Restatement Effective Date.
(c) On and after the Restatement Effective Date, (i) each reference in any Credit Document to the Credit Agreement shall be deemed a reference to the Amended Credit Agreement, and (ii) the Amended Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be dated as of the Restatement Effective Date.
The provisions of Sections 9.05, 9.07, 9.08, 9.10, 9.11, 9.12, and 9.13 of the Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference herein, , so as to apply to this Agreement.
Section 5.
Incorporation of Miscellaneous Provisions.
mutatis mutandis
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
to Amendment and Restatement Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
This CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of [RESTATEMENT EFFECTIVE DATE] (this ""), is entered into among CONSTELLATION ENERGY GROUP, INC., a Maryland corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ""), EXELON CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania corporation (""), the lenders from time to time parties hereto (together with their successors and assigns, the ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. (""), as letter of credit issuing bank, swingline lender and administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "").
Agreement
Borrower
Exelon
Lenders
Bank of America
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2010 (the ""), certain Lenders, the Swingline Lender and the LC Banks agreed, on the terms and conditions set forth therein, to provide the Borrower a $2,500,000,000 three-year revolving credit and letter of credit facility to be used for the issuance of letters of credit, backstopping commercial paper, working capital and other general corporate purposes.
Original Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, pursuant to an Amendment and Restatement Agreement, dated as of November     , 2011 (the ""), among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders named therein, the Original Credit Agreement has been amended and restated as set forth herein, effective as of the Restatement Effective Date (as defined in the Amendment and Restatement Agreement).
Amendment and Restatement Agreement
WHEREAS, pursuant to a joinder agreement, dated as of the Restatement Effective Date (the ""), Exelon has agreed to become a party to this Agreement.
Exelon Joinder Agreement
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1.01. Defined Terms.
As used in this Agreement, terms not defined in the lead paragraph or preamble shall have the meanings specified below:
"" shall have the meaning given such term in the preamble hereto.
Administrative Agent
"" shall mean a Eurodollar Advance, Swingline Advance or Base Rate Advance.
Advance
"" shall mean, for any period, Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities for such period Interest Expense for such period the portion (but not less than zero) of Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities for such period attributable to ComEd Entities or any consolidated Subsidiary that has no Debt other than Nonrecourse Indebtedness.
Adjusted Funds From Operations
plus
minus
"" shall mean, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person.
Affiliate
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 8.17.
Agent Parties
"" shall have the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statement.
Amendment and Restatement Agreement
"" shall mean, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance, and such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
"" shall mean, with respect to Base Rate Advances and Eurodollar Advances, at all times during which any Applicable Rating Level set forth below is in effect, the rate set forth below next to such Applicable Rating Level:
Applicable Margin
per annum
 
A change in the Applicable Margin resulting from a change in the Applicable Rating Level shall become effective upon the date of announcement of a change in any Reference Rating that results in a change in the Applicable Rating Level.
"" shall be determined in accordance with the then-applicable Reference Ratings as follows:
Applicable Rating Level
 
 
In the event that none of Applicable Rating Levels 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 shall be applicable, or no Reference Rating by any of S&P, Fitch and Moody's shall be in effect, then the Applicable Rating Level shall be Applicable Rating Level 6; , , if any of S&P, Fitch or Moody's ceases to rate corporate debt obligations generally, then the Reference Ratings will be determined pursuant to the immediately following paragraph without reference to such rating agency. The Applicable Rating Level shall be redetermined on the date of announcement of a change in any of these Reference Ratings.
provided
however
Notwithstanding the above, (i) if at any time there is a split among Reference Ratings by S&P, Fitch and Moody's such that all three Reference Ratings fall in different Applicable Rating Levels, the Applicable Rating Level shall be determined by the Reference Rating that is neither the highest nor the lowest of the three Reference Ratings, and (ii) if at any time there is a split among Reference Ratings by S&P, Fitch and Moody's such that two of such Reference Ratings are in one Level (the "") and the third rating is in a different Applicable Rating Level, the Applicable Rating Level shall be at the Majority Level.
Majority Level
"" shall mean any Fund that is administered or managed by (i) a Lender, (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender or (iii) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" shall mean Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., RBS Securities Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp. and The Bank of Nova Scotia.
Arrangers
"" shall mean an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee in the form of Exhibit A.
Assignment and Assumption
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.04(b).
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.04(c).
Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit
"" shall have the meaning given such term in the preamble hereto.
Bank of America
"" shall mean for any date a fluctuating rate equal to the highest of (i) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day
Base Rate
per annum
plus
 1
/
2
of 1%, (ii) the rate of interest in
 
effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate", and (iii) the Eurodollar Rate 1%. The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such prime rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
plus
"" shall mean an Advance that bears interest at a rate determined by reference to the Base Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
Base Rate Advance
"" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Base Rate Advances.
Base Rate Borrowing
"" shall mean Baltimore Gas and Electric Company.
BGE
"" shall mean RF Holdco, BGE and any of their Subsidiaries.
BGE Entity
"" shall mean the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
Board
"" shall mean any Letter of Credit issued to support certain obligations to pay the principal of, interest on and/or purchase or redemption price of Bonds.
Bond Letter of Credit
"" shall mean industrial revenue bonds, pollution control revenue bonds (or similar obligations, however designated) issued pursuant to an Indenture between the Trustee and the Issuer named therein for which an LC Bank has issued or intends to issue a Bond Letter of Credit.
Bonds
"" shall mean Constellation Energy Group, Inc., a Maryland corporation, and Exelon, as successor to the Borrower upon a merger of the Borrower into Exelon in accordance with Section 5.02(b).
Borrower
"" shall mean a borrowing consisting of (i) simultaneous Advances of the same Type and having the same interest period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.03 or (ii) a Swingline Advance. All Advances (other than Swingline Advances) of the same Type, having the same Interest Period and made or Converted on the same day shall be deemed a single Borrowing hereunder until repaid or next Converted.
Borrowing
"" shall mean a request made pursuant to Section 2.03 in the form of Exhibit B.
Borrowing Request
"" shall mean any day (other than a day that is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the State of New York or the State of Maryland) on which banks are open for business in New York, New York and Baltimore, Maryland; , that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Advance, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day that is not a London Banking Day.
Business Day
provided, however
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7.02(b).
Cash Collateral Account
 
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Code
"" shall mean Commonwealth Edison Company, an Illinois corporation, or any successor thereof.
ComEd
"" shall mean Debt of any ComEd Entity for which neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary (other than another ComEd Entity) has any liability, contingent or otherwise.
ComEd Debt
"" shall mean ComEd and each of its Subsidiaries.
ComEd Entity
"" shall mean, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender (i) to make Advances under this Agreement as set forth in Schedule I hereto, or any modification thereof delivered by the Administrative Agent on the Restatement Effective Date pursuant to the Amendment and Restatement Agreement, (ii) to refund or purchase participations in Swingline Advances pursuant to Section 2.03 and (iii) to purchase participations in Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 2.04, in each case, as such commitment may be permanently (A) terminated or reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.10(a), (b) or (c), or (B) modified from time to time pursuant to Section 9.04.
Commitment
"" shall mean, as to any Lender as of any date of determination, the percentage describing such Lender's pro rata share of the Commitments set forth in the Register from time to time.
Commitment Percentage
"" shall mean the obligations of Exelon or Genco under (i) any commodity swap agreement, commodity future agreement, commodity option agreement, commodity cap agreement, commodity floor agreement, commodity collar agreement, commodity hedge agreement, commodity forward contract or derivative transaction and any put, call or other agreement, arrangement or transaction, including natural gas, power, electric energy, emissions forward contracts, renewable energy credits, or any combination of any such arrangements, agreements and/or transactions, employed in the ordinary course of Exelon or Genco's business, including Exelon or Genco's energy marketing, trading and asset optimization business, or (ii) any commodity swap agreement, commodity future agreement, commodity option agreement, commodity cap agreement, commodity floor agreement, commodity collar agreement, commodity hedge agreement, commodity forward contract or derivative transaction and any put, call or other agreement or arrangement, or combination thereof (including an agreement or arrangement to hedge foreign exchange risks) in respect of commodities entered into by Exelon or Genco pursuant to asset optimization and risk management policies and procedures adopted pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of Directors of Genco or Exelon. The term "commodities" shall include electric energy and/or capacity, transmission rights, coal, petroleum, natural gas liquids, natural gas, fuel transportation rights, emissions allowances, weather derivatives and related products and by-products and ancillary services.
Commodity Trading Obligations
shall have the meaning specified in Section 5.01(b).
"Communication"
"" shall mean Other Connection Taxes that are imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated) or that are franchise Taxes or branch profits Taxes.
Connection Income Taxes
 
"" shall mean Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, LLC, a Maryland limited liability company.
Constellation Nuclear
"" shall mean Constellation Nuclear, LLC, CE Nuclear, LLC and Constellation Nuclear and its Subsidiaries.
Constellation Nuclear Entity
"", "" and "" each shall mean a conversion of Borrowings of one Type into Borrowings of another Type, or the selection of a new, or the renewal of the same, Interest Period for Eurodollar Borrowings pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
"" shall mean each person (as defined in Section 3(9) of ERISA) that, together with the Borrower or Exelon, would be deemed to be a "single employer" within the meaning of Section 414(b) or 414(c) of the Code.
Controlled Group
"" shall mean this Agreement, the Amendment and Restatement Agreement, the Fee Letters and any Note.
Credit Documents
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Credit Parties
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, any Person acting as bailee and agent for the Administrative Agent (on behalf of the applicable LC Bank with respect to such Bonds) under any Pledge Agreement or Indenture relating to such Bonds.
Custodian
"" shall mean (i) indebtedness for borrowed money, (ii) obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business), (iv) obligations as lessee under leases that shall have been or are required to be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (v) obligations (contingent or otherwise) under reimbursement or similar agreements with respect to the issuance of letters of credit (other than obligations in respect of documentary letters of credit opened to provide for the payment of goods or services purchased in the ordinary course of business) and (vi) obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to in clauses (i) through (v) above.
Debt
"" shall mean the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Law
"" shall mean, subject to Section 9.14(b), any Lender that, as determined by the Administrative Agent, (i) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder, including in respect of its Advances or participations in respect of Letters of Credit or Swingline Advances, within three Business Days after the date required to be funded by it hereunder, unless in respect of such Advances, such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not
Defaulting Lender
 
been satisfied, (ii) has notified the Borrower or the Administrative Agent that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (iii) has failed, within three Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent or an LC Bank, to confirm in a manner satisfactory to the Administrative Agent or such LC Bank, as applicable, that it will comply with its funding obligations, or (iv) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (A) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, (B) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (C) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority or the exercise of control over such Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority.
provided
"" shall mean, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
"" shall mean any of the following entities: (i) a financial institution organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof, and having total assets in excess of $1,000,000,000; and (ii) a financial institution organized under the laws of any other country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or a political subdivision of any such country, and having total assets in excess of $1,000,000,000, that such financial institution is acting through a branch or agency located in the United States.
Eligible Assignee
provided
"" shall mean a Person that (i) is a corporation, limited liability company or business trust duly incorporated or organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of one of the states of the United States or the District of Columbia, (ii) as a result of a contemplated acquisition, consolidation or merger, will succeed to all or substantially all of the consolidated business and assets of Exelon, the Borrower or a Principal Subsidiary, as applicable, (iii) upon giving effect to such contemplated acquisition, consolidation or merger, will have all or substantially all of its consolidated business and assets conducted and located in the United States and (iv) is acceptable to the Majority Lenders as a credit matter.
Eligible Successor
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
"" shall have the meaning specified in Regulation D of the Board, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
"" shall mean an Advance that bears interest at the Eurodollar Rate in accordance with the provisions of Article II.
Eurodollar Advance
 
"" shall mean a Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Advances.
Eurodollar Borrowing
"" shall mean, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule I hereto (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office) or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
"" shall mean:
Eurodollar Rate
(i) for each Interest Period for each Eurodollar Advance made as part of the same Borrowing, the rate of interest (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) equal to (A) the British Bankers Association's London interbank offered rate for deposits in dollars (""), as published by Reuters (or such other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as may be designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two London Banking Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for dollar deposits with a term equivalent to such Interest Period, or (B) if such rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in dollars for delivery on the first day of such interest period would be offered by Bank of America's London branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two London Banking Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term equivalent to such Interest Period.
per annum
BBA LIBOR
per annum
(ii) for any interest calculation with respect to a Base Rate Advance on any date, the rate equal to (A) BBA LIBOR, at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) determined two London Banking Days prior to such date for dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (B) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in dollars for delivery on the date of determination in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Base Rate Advance being made or maintained and with a term equal to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market at their request at the date and time of determination.
per annum
per annum
"" of any Lender for each Interest Period for each Eurodollar Advance shall mean the reserve percentage applicable during such Interest Period (or if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average of such percentages for those days in such Interest Period during which any such percentage shall be so applicable) under Regulation D or other regulations issued from time to time by the Board (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement, without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets) for such Lender with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7.01.
Event of Default
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
 
"" shall mean any of the following Taxes imposed on or with respect to a Recipient or required to be withheld or deducted from a payment to a Recipient, (i) Taxes imposed on or measured by net income (however denominated), franchise Taxes, and branch profits Taxes, in each case, (A) imposed as a result of such Recipient being organized under the laws of, or having its principal office or, in the case of any Lender, its applicable lending office located in, the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (or any political subdivision thereof) or (B) that are Other Connection Taxes, (ii) in the case of a Lender, U.S. federal withholding Taxes imposed on amounts payable to or for the account of such Lender with respect to an applicable interest in an Outstanding Credit or Commitment pursuant to a law in effect on the date on which (x) such Lender acquires such interest in the Outstanding Credit or Commitment (other than pursuant to an assignment request by the Borrower under Section 2.18) or (y) such Lender changes its lending office, except in each case to the extent that, pursuant to Section 2.17, amounts with respect to such Taxes were payable either to such Lender's assignor immediately before such Lender became a party hereto or to such Lender immediately before it changed its lending office, (iii) Taxes attributable to such Recipient's failure to comply with Section 2.17(g) and (iv) any U.S. federal withholding Taxes imposed under FATCA.
Excluded Taxes
"" shall have the meaning given such tem in the preamble hereto.
Exelon
"" shall have the meaning specified in the Preliminary Statement.
Exelon Joinder Agreement
"" shall mean (i) the making of an Advance or (ii) (A) the issuance of a Letter of Credit or (B) the amendment of any Letter of Credit having the effect of increasing the maximum amount available to be drawn thereunder.
Extension of Credit
"" shall mean, at all times during which any Applicable Rating Level is in effect, the rate set forth below next to such Applicable Rating Level:
Facility Fee Rate
per annum
 
A change in the Facility Fee Rate resulting from a change in the Applicable Rating Level shall become effective upon the date of announcement of a change in any Reference Rating that results in a change in the Applicable Rating Level.
"" shall mean Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of the Amendment and Restatement Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
 
"" shall mean, for any day, the rate (rounded upwards to the next 1/100th of 1%) equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so released for any day which is a Business Day, the arithmetic average (rounded upwards to the next 1/100th of 1%), as determined by the Administrative Agent, of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
per annum
"" shall mean, collectively, (i) the Fee Letter, dated September 14, 2010, between the Borrower and Bank of America, (ii) the Fee Letter, dated September 14, 2010, among the Borrower, The Bank of Nova Scotia and BNP Paribas Securities Corp. and (iii) the Fee Letter, dated September 14, 2010, among the Borrower, Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and RBS Securities Inc., each as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.
Fee Letters
"" shall mean Fitch Ratings, Inc. or any successor thereto.
Fitch
"" shall mean (i) if the Borrower is a U.S. Person, a Lender that is not a U.S. Person, and (ii) if the Borrower is not a U.S. Person, a Lender that is resident or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes.
Foreign Lender
"" shall mean, with respect to each LC Bank, the commitment of such LC Bank to issue Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 2.04, as such commitment may be modified from time to time upon agreement between the Borrower and such LC Bank. As of the date of the Amendment and Restatement Agreement, the Fronting Commitment of each of Bank of America, Citibank, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, BNP Paribas and The Bank of Nova Scotia is $300,000,000.
Fronting Commitment
"" shall mean, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, (i) with respect to an LC Bank, such Defaulting Lender's Commitment Percentage of the LC Outstandings other than LC Outstandings as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or cash collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof, and (ii) with respect to the Swingline Lender, such Defaulting Lender's Commitment Percentage of Swingline Advances other than Swingline Advances as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or cash collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
"" shall mean any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
"" shall mean Exelon Generation Company, LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company, and its successors.
Genco
 
"" shall mean any authorization, consent, approval, license or exemption of, registration or filing with, or report or notice to, any Governmental Authority.
Governmental Approval
"" shall mean the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Guaranteed Obligations
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Guaranty
"" shall mean with respect to any Person, the obligations of such Person under any interest rate or currency swap agreement, interest rate or currency future agreement, interest rate collar agreement, interest rate or currency hedge agreement, and any put, call or other agreement or arrangement designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates.
Hedging Obligations
"" shall mean (i) Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by or on account of any obligation of any Loan Party under any Credit Document and (ii) to the extent not otherwise described in (i), Other Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, the indenture pursuant to which such Bonds are issued and any supplement thereto relating to such Bonds.
Indenture
"" shall mean for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of Exelon, the ratio of Adjusted Funds From Operations for such period to Net Interest Expense for such period.
Interest Coverage Ratio
"" shall mean for any period, "interest expense" as shown on a consolidated statement of income of Exelon for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
"" shall mean for any period, "Interest Expense to Affiliates" as shown on a consolidated statement of income of Exelon for such period.
Interest Expense to Affiliates
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 9.14(a).
Information
"" shall mean, with respect to any Advance, the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto and, in the case of a Eurodollar Advance with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day that would have been an Interest Payment Date for such Advance had successive Interest Periods of three months' duration been applicable to any Advance and, in addition, the date of any prepayment of each Advance or Conversion of any Advance to an Advance of a different Type or having a new Interest Period.
Interest Payment Date
"" shall mean (i) as to any Eurodollar Advance, the period commencing on the date of such Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Advance into a Eurodollar
Interest Period
 
Advance and ending on the numerically corresponding day (or, if there is no numerically corresponding day, on the last day) in the calendar month that is 1, 2, 3 or 6 months thereafter, or such other period as the Borrower and all the Lenders may agree in any specific instance, and (ii) as to any Base Rate Advance, the period commencing on the date of such Advance or the Conversion of any Advance into a Base Rate Advance and ending on the earlier of (A) the Termination Date and (B) the last day of each fiscal quarter; , that (x) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of Eurodollar Advances only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (y) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Termination Date.
provided, however
"" shall mean, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice, Inc. (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, the issuer of such Bonds under the applicable Indenture.
Issuer
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, the agreement between the applicable Issuer and the Borrower pursuant to which (i) the proceeds of such Bonds are loaned by such Issuer to the Borrower, together with any promissory note or other instrument evidencing the Debt of the Borrower under such agreement, or (ii) the Borrower agrees to pay the purchase price of, or rent with respect to, the facilities financed or refinanced with the proceeds of such Bonds.
Issuer Agreement
"" shall mean, as to any Letter of Credit, Bank of America, Citibank, N.A., The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, BNP Paribas, The Bank of Nova Scotia or any other Lender that agrees to issue a Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2.04, as applicable.
LC Bank
"" shall mean the amount of the aggregate Commitments, as the same may be reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to Section 2.10.
LC Committed Amount
"" shall mean, on any date of determination, the sum of (i) the undrawn stated amounts of all Letters of Credit that are outstanding on such date plus (ii) the aggregate principal amount of all Unreimbursed LC Disbursements. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with Section 1.05. For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP (if applicable to such Letter of Credit), such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
LC Outstandings
"" shall have the meaning given such term in the preamble hereto.
Lender
"" shall mean a standby or direct-pay letter of credit denominated in United States dollars (except for certain letters of credit issued and outstanding on the Restatement Effective Date) and issued by an LC Bank pursuant to Section 2.04, in each case, as
Letter of Credit
 
such letter of credit may from time to time be amended, modified or extended in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
"" shall mean, as to an LC Bank, an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the applicable form for such LC Bank attached as Exhibit D, E, F, G or H (as applicable), or as otherwise from time to time in use by such LC Bank. Notwithstanding anything in a Letter of Credit Application to the contrary, in the event of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any Letter of Credit Application, the terms of this Agreement shall control.
Letter of Credit Application
"" shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.05(b).
Letter of Credit Fee
"" shall mean any lien (statutory or other), mortgage, pledge, security interest or other charge or encumbrance, or any other type of preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest (including the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale, capitalized lease or other title retention agreement).
Lien
"" shall mean the Borrower and Exelon.
Loan Party
"" shall mean any day on which dealings in dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market.
London Banking Day
"" shall mean Lenders having Commitments representing in excess of 50% of the aggregate Commitments or, if the Commitments have been terminated, Lenders holding Outstanding Credits representing in excess of 50% of the Outstanding Credits; that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Outstanding Credits held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Majority Lenders.
Majority Lenders
provided
"" and "" each shall mean, relative to any occurrence, fact or circumstances of whatsoever nature (including any determination in any litigation, arbitration or governmental investigation or proceeding), (i) any materially adverse change in, or materially adverse effect on, the financial condition, operations, assets or business of Exelon and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (excluding ComEd Entities), provided that, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the assertion against Exelon or any Subsidiary of liability for any obligation arising under ERISA for which Exelon or such Subsidiary bore joint and several liability with any ComEd Entity, or the payment by Exelon or any Subsidiary of any such obligation, shall not be considered in determining whether a Material Adverse Change or Material Adverse Effect has occurred); or (ii) any materially adverse effect on the validity or enforceability against the Borrower or Exelon of this Agreement.
Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Effect
"" shall mean Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" shall mean a Plan that meets the definition in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" shall mean for any period, "Net Cash Flows provided by Operating Activities" as shown on a consolidated statement of cash flows of
Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities
 
Exelon for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP, excluding any "Changes in assets and liabilities" (as shown on such statement of cash flows) taken into account in determining such Net Cash Flows provided by Operating Activities.
"" shall mean for any period, the total of (i) Interest Expense for such period minus (ii) Interest Expense to Affiliates for such period to the extent included in the amount referred to in clause (i) and related to (A) interest payments on Debt obligations that are subordinated to the obligations of Exelon under this Agreement or (B) interest on Nonrecourse Indebtedness minus (c) interest on ComEd Debt for such period.
Net Interest Expense
"" shall mean at the time of determination, a Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender.
non-Defaulting Lender
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.04(b).
Non-Extension Notice Date
"" shall mean any Debt that finances the acquisition, development, ownership or operation of an asset in respect of which the Person to which such Debt is owed has no recourse whatsoever to Exelon or any of its Affiliates other than:
Nonrecourse Indebtedness
(i) recourse to the named obligor with respect to such Debt (the "") for amounts limited to the cash flow or net cash flow (other than historic cash flow) from the asset;
Debtor
(ii) recourse to the Debtor for the purpose only of enabling amounts to be claimed in respect of such Debt in an enforcement of any security interest or lien given by the Debtor over the asset or the income, cash flow or other proceeds deriving from the asset (or given by any shareholder or the like in the Debtor over its shares or like interest in the capital of the Debtor) to secure the Debt, but only if the extent of the recourse to the Debtor is limited solely to the amount of any recoveries made on any such enforcement; and
(iii) recourse to the Debtor generally or indirectly to any Affiliate of the Debtor, under any form of assurance, undertaking or support, which recourse is limited to a claim for damages (other than liquidated damages and damages required to be calculated in a specified way) for a breach of an obligation (other than a payment obligation or an obligation to comply or to procure compliance by another with any financial ratios or other tests of financial condition) by the Person against which such recourse is available.
"" shall mean a promissory note of the Borrower issued pursuant to Section 2.06(e) at the request of a Lender, evidencing the Advances and in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, as such promissory note may be amended, modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time.
Note
"" shall have the meaning assigned to that term in Section 2.03(b).
Notice of Conversion
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, the official statement, reoffering circular or similar disclosure document (however designated) relating to such Bonds
Official Statement
 
and the applicable LC Bank with respect to such Bonds, as amended and supplemented from time to time, and all documents incorporated therein (or in any such supplement or amendment) by reference.
"" shall mean October 15, 2010.
Original Agreement Date
"" shall mean, with respect to any Recipient, Taxes imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax (other than connections arising from such Recipient having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Credit Document, or sold or assigned an interest in any Outstanding Credit or Credit Document).
Other Connection Taxes
"" shall mean all present or future stamp, court or documentary, intangible, recording, filing or similar Taxes that arise from any payment made under, from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, from the receipt or perfection of a security interest under, or otherwise with respect to, any Credit Document, except any such Taxes that are Other Connection Taxes imposed with respect to an assignment (other than an assignment made pursuant to Section 2.18).
Other Taxes
"" shall mean, on any date of determination, an amount equal to (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances outstanding on such date plus (ii) the LC Outstandings on such date.
Outstanding Credits
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 9.04(f).
Participant Register
"" shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
"" shall mean PECO Energy Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, or any successor thereof.
PECO
"" shall mean (i) any right reserved to or vested in any municipality or other governmental or public authority (A) by the terms of any right, power, franchise, grant (including, without limitation, any financial assistance grant), license or permit granted or issued to Exelon or Genco or (B) to purchase or recapture or to designate a purchaser of any property of Exelon or Genco; (ii) any easement, restriction, exception or reservation in any property and/or right of way of Exelon or Genco for the purposes of roads, pipelines, transmission lines, distribution lines, transportation lines or removal of minerals or timber or for other like purposes or for the joint or common use of real property, rights of way, facilities and/or equipment, and defects, irregularities and deficiencies in title of any property and/or rights of way, which, in each case described in this clause (ii), whether considered individually or collectively with all other items described in this clause (ii), do not materially impair the use of the relevant property and/or rights of way for the purposes for which such property and/or rights of way are held by Exelon or Genco; (iii) rights reserved to or vested in any municipality or other Governmental Authority to control or regulate any property of Exelon or Genco or to use such property in a manner that does not materially impair the use of such property for the purposes for which it is held by Exelon or Genco; and (iv) obligations or duties of Exelon or Genco to any
Permitted Encumbrance
 
municipality or other Governmental Authority that arise out of any franchise, grant, license or permit and that affect any property of Exelon or Genco (including, without limitation, obligations with respect to nuclear waste disposal and related arrangements).
"" shall mean (i) Hedging Obligations of Exelon or Genco arising in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with Genco's (or Exelon's) established risk management policies that are designed to protect Exelon or Genco against, as applicable, among other things, fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates and which in the case of agreements relating to interest rates shall have a notional amount no greater than the payments due with respect to the applicable obligations being hedged and (ii) Commodity Trading Obligations.
Permitted Obligations
"" shall mean any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, business trust, joint venture, joint stock company, trust, association, company, partnership or government, or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" shall mean an employee pension benefit plan that is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code as to which Exelon or any other member of the Controlled Group has any liability (including contingent liability).
Plan
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 5.01.
Platform
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, the pledge agreement or custodian agreement (or similar agreement, however designated), among the Administrative Agent, the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower and the applicable Custodian with respect to such Bonds, setting forth certain terms relating to the pledge and/or ownership of any such Bonds pending the remarketing thereof pursuant to the applicable Remarketing Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, any Indenture that contains the terms described in the preceding sentence shall also be considered to be a "Pledge Agreement".
Pledge Agreement
"" shall mean each Subsidiary, other than PECO and its Subsidiaries, any BGE Entity, any ComEd Entity and, except as provided in the proviso below, any Constellation Nuclear Entity, (i) the consolidated assets of which, as of the date of any determination thereof, are at least equal to 10% of the consolidated assets of Exelon (after giving effect to the acquisition of the Borrower by Exelon) or (ii) the consolidated earnings before taxes of which are at least equal to 10% of the consolidated earnings before taxes of Exelon for the most recently completed fiscal year (and, in the case of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, after giving pro forma effect to the acquisition of the Borrower by Exelon);, that, regardless of whether Constellation Nuclear or any of its Subsidiaries is a consolidated Subsidiary of Exelon, (A) the Constellation Nuclear Entities shall be subject to being tested as Principal Subsidiaries under clauses (i) and (ii) above only at any time that Exelon shall own, directly or indirectly through one or more other Subsidiaries, 51% or more of the outstanding capital stock (or other comparable interest) of Constellation Nuclear having ordinary voting power (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock, or comparable interests, of any other class or classes of such corporation or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), and (B) the assets and earnings of Constellation Nuclear and its
Principal Subsidiary
provided
 
Subsidiaries shall be included in the computation of the 10% tests set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) above, as applicable, only to the extent of Exelon's proportional equity interest in Constellation Nuclear.
"" shall mean (i) the Administrative Agent, (ii) any Lender, (iii) the Swingline Lender and (iv) any LC Bank, as applicable.
Recipient
"" by S&P, Fitch or Moody's shall mean, at any time, the then in effect rating with respect to Exelon's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party enhancement issued by S&P, Fitch or Moody's, respectively.
Reference Rating
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 9.04(d).
Register
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, such Bonds and the Indenture, the Issuer Agreement, any Remarketing Agreement and any Pledge Agreement relating to such Bonds.
Related Documents
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, any person acting in the capacity of remarketing agent for such Bonds pursuant to a Remarketing Agreement relating to such Bonds.
Remarketing Agent
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, any agreement or other arrangement pursuant to which the applicable Remarketing Agent has agreed to act in such capacity with respect to such Bonds tendered for purchase pursuant to the applicable Indenture.
Remarketing Agreement
"" shall mean a reportable event as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and regulations issued under such Section with respect to a Single Employer Plan, excluding such events as to which the requirement of Section 4043(a) of ERISA that the PBGC be notified within 30 days after the occurrence of such event is waived under PBGC Regulation Section 4043, provided that a failure to meet the minimum funding standard of Section 412 of the Code and Section 302 of ERISA shall be a Reportable Event regardless of the issuance of any such waivers in accordance with either Section 4043(a) of ERISA or Section 412(c) of the Code.
Reportable Event
"" shall mean a request made pursuant to Section 2.04(a) in the form of Exhibit C.
Request for Issuance
"" shall mean RF HoldCo LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
RF Holdco
"" shall mean Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of the McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or any successor thereto.
S&P
"" shall mean a Plan, other than a Multiemployer Plan, maintained by the Borrower, Exelon or any other member of the Controlled Group for employees of Exelon or any other member of the Controlled Group.
Single Employer Plan
 
"" shall mean with respect to any Person, any corporation or unincorporated entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock (or comparable interest) having ordinary voting power (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock, or comparable interests, of any other class or classes of such corporation or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person (whether directly or through one or more other Subsidiaries). Unless otherwise indicated, each reference to a "Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary of Exelon.
Subsidiary
"" shall mean any swingline loan made by the Swingline Lender to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.03, and all such swingline loans collectively as the context requires.
Swingline Advance
"" shall mean the lesser of (i) an aggregate principal amount of $50,000,000 and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the Unused Commitments.
Swingline Commitment
"" shall mean Bank of America, in its capacity as Swingline Lender.
Swingline Lender
"" shall mean, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Advances outstanding at such time. The Swingline Outstandings of any Lender at any time shall be its Commitment Percentage of the total Swingline Outstandings at such time.
Swingline Outstandings
shall mean all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
"Taxes"
"" shall mean the earlier to occur of (i) October 15, 2013, and (ii) the date of termination or reduction in whole of the Commitments in accordance with this Agreement.
Termination Date
"" shall mean, for any series of Bonds, the person acting in the capacity of trustee for the holders of such Bonds under the Indenture pursuant to which such Bonds were issued.
Trustee
"", when used in respect of any Advance or Borrowing, shall refer to the Rate by reference to which interest on such Advance or on the Advances comprising such Borrowing is determined. For purposes hereof, "Rate" shall mean the Eurodollar Rate or the Base Rate.
Type
"" shall mean (i) in the case of any Single Employer Plan, the amount (if any) by which the present value of all vested nonforfeitable benefits under such Plan exceeds the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such benefits, all determined as of the then most recent actuarial valuation date for such Plan using the actuarial assumptions set forth in the most recent actuarial valuation report for such Single Employer Plan, and (ii) in the case of any Multiemployer Plan, the Withdrawal Liability that would be incurred by the Controlled Group if all members of the Controlled Group completely withdrew from such Multiemployer Plan.
Unfunded Liabilities
"" shall mean any event which (if it continues uncured) will, with the lapse of time or notice or both, become an Event of Default (excluding any breach of Section 5.01(c), or Section 5.02(g), (h), (i) or (j), or Section 5.01(b) (solely with respect to
Unmatured Event of Default
 
notices relating to a breach of any of the foregoing specified Sections of this Agreement or relating to a breach of subsection (h) or (i) of Section 7.01).
"" shall mean the unpaid obligation (or, if the context so requires, the amount of such obligation) of the Borrower to reimburse an LC Bank for a payment made by such LC Bank under a Letter of Credit, but shall not include any portion of such obligation that has been repaid with the proceeds of Advances hereunder.
Unreimbursed LC Disbursement
"" shall mean, for any period from the date hereof to the Termination Date, the amount by which (i) the sum of the aggregate Commitments exceeds (ii) the daily average sum for such period of the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Credits.
Unused Commitment
"" shall mean any Person that is a "United States Person" as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.17(f).
U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
"" shall have the meaning specified in Part 1 of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
"" shall mean any Loan Party and the Administrative Agent.
Withholding Agent
Section 1.02. Terms Generally.
The definitions in Section 1.01 shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". All references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement unless the context shall otherwise require. References to any document, instrument or agreement, including any Credit Document, shall be deemed to include any amendment, restatement, modification, supplement or replacement thereto entered into in accordance with the terms thereof and the terms of the Credit Documents. References to any Person shall include such Person's successors and permitted assigns. The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in any Credit Document shall refer to such Credit Document as a whole and not to any particular provision of such Credit Document.
Section 1.03. Accounting Principles.
(a) As used in this Agreement, "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, applied on a basis consistent with the principles used in preparing Exelon's audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 and for the fiscal year then ended, as such principles may be revised as a result of changes in GAAP implemented by Exelon subsequent to such date. In this Agreement, except to the extent, if any, otherwise provided herein, all accounting and financial terms shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms by GAAP, and all computations and determinations as to accounting and financial matters
 
shall be made in accordance with GAAP. In the event that the financial statements generally prepared by Exelon reflect a change in GAAP that affects the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth herein (as contemplated by Section 1.03(b)), the compliance certificate delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(b)(iv) accompanying such financial statements shall include information in reasonable detail reconciling such financial statements which reflect such change in GAAP to financial information that does not reflect such change to the extent relevant to the calculations set forth in such compliance certificate.
(b) If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth herein and Exelon or the Majority Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and Exelon shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Majority Lenders); , until so amended, such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein.
provided that
(c) For purposes of any calculation or determination which is to be made on a consolidated basis (including compliance with Section 5.02(c)), such calculation or determination shall exclude any assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that are included in Exelon's financial statements from "variable interest entities" as a result of the application of FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, as updated through FIN No. 46-R and as modified by FIN No. 94.
Section 1.04. Time.
All references to time herein shall be references to Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Time, as the case may be, unless specified otherwise.
Section 1.05. Letter of Credit Amounts.
Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Request for Issuance or Letter of Credit Application related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
provided
however
Section 2.01. Extensions of Credit.
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, each Lender agrees, severally and not jointly, to make Advances, at any time and from time to time until the Termination Date, to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed such Lender's Commitment minus an amount equal to such Lender's Commitment Percentage multiplied by the Outstanding Credits at such time.
 
(b) At no time shall the Outstanding Credits exceed the aggregate Commitments. The Borrower agrees to prepay Advances (subject to payment of the breakage fee required pursuant to Section 9.05(b)(ii)), satisfy reimbursement obligations and/or deposit funds in the Cash Collateral Account in respect of undrawn Letters of Credit to the extent required to ensure compliance with this provision at all times.
(c) No more than ten Eurodollar Borrowings shall be outstanding at any one time.
(d) Within the foregoing limits, the Borrower may borrow, pay or prepay, subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 2.12(a), and reborrow Advances hereunder, on and after the date hereof and prior to the Termination Date, subject to the terms, conditions and limitations set forth herein.
Section 2.02. Advances.
(a) Each Advance (other than Swingline Advances, which shall be made by the Swingline Lender in accordance with Section 2.03) shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Advances made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments; that the failure of any Lender to make any Advance shall not in itself relieve any other Lender of its obligation to lend hereunder (it being understood, however, that no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make any Advance required to be made by such other Lender). The Advances (other than Swingline Advances) comprising any Borrowing shall be in an aggregate principal amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 (or an aggregate principal amount equal to the remaining balance of the available Commitments).
provided, however,
(b) Each Borrowing (other than with respect to Swingline Advances) shall be comprised entirely of Eurodollar Advances or Base Rate Advances, as the Borrower may request pursuant to Section 2.03. Each Lender may at its option make any Eurodollar Advance by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Advance; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Advance in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Subject to Section 2.01(c), Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time.
provided
(c) Each Lender shall make each Advance to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Administrative Agent in New York, New York, not later than 12:00 noon, and the Administrative Agent shall, by 2:00 P.M., credit the amounts so received to the account or accounts specified from time to time in one or more notices delivered by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or, if a Borrowing shall not occur on such date because any condition precedent herein specified shall not have been met, return the amounts so received to the respective Lenders. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's portion of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with this subsection (c) and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that
 
such Lender shall not have made such portion available to the Administrative Agent, such Lender and the Borrower (without waiving any claim against such Lender for such Lender's failure to make such portion available) severally agree to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to the Advances comprising such Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Effective Rate; , that should both the Borrower and such Lender repay the Administrative Agent in accordance with this sentence, the Administrative Agent will forthwith return the amount in excess of the portion due to it under this sentence to the Borrower. If such Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent such corresponding amount, such amount shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
provided, however
Section 2.03. Borrowing and Conversion Procedures; Swingline Advances.
(a) In order to request a Borrowing, the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy to the Administrative Agent a duly completed Borrowing Request (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 10:00 A.M. three Business Days before such Borrowing, and (b) in the case of a Base Rate Borrowing or a Swingline Advance, not later than 10:00 A.M. on the Business Day of such Borrowing. Such notice shall be irrevocable and shall in each case specify (i) whether the Borrowing then being requested is to comprise Eurodollar Advances or Base Rate Advances or will consist of a Swingline Advance; (ii) the date of such Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day) and the amount thereof; and (iii) if such Borrowing is to be a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period with respect thereto, which shall not end after the Termination Date. If no election as to the Type of Borrowing is specified in any such notice, then the requested Borrowing shall be a Base Rate Borrowing. If no Interest Period with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing is specified in any such notice, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Each Swingline Advance shall be made and maintained as a Base Rate Advance at all times.
(b) The Borrower may on any Business Day, by delivering a notice of conversion (a "") to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 A.M. on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion, and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.09 and 2.13, Convert any Borrowing of one Type or for one Interest Period into a Borrowing of another Type or for another Interest Period (other than Swingline Advances); , that any Conversion of any Eurodollar Borrowing shall be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period. Each such Notice of Conversion shall be in substantially the form of Exhibit I hereto and shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Borrowings to be Converted, (iii) if such Conversion will result in a Eurodollar Borrowing, the duration of the Interest Period for such Eurodollar Borrowing, and (iv) the aggregate amount of Borrowings proposed to be Converted. If the Borrower shall not have provided a Notice of Conversion with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing on or prior to 10:00 A.M. on the third Business Day prior to the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, in the case of a Conversion to or in respect of Eurodollar Advances, or if an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the third Business Day prior to the last day of the Interest Period with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the Administrative Agent will
Notice of Conversion
provided, however
 
forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Borrowing will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Borrowing.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, no Borrowing shall be requested or Converted if the Interest Period with respect thereto would end after the Termination Date. The Administrative Agent shall promptly advise the Lenders of any notice given pursuant to this Section 2.03 and of each Lender's portion of the requested Borrowing or Conversion.
(d) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Swingline Lender, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this Section 2.03, may in its sole discretion make Swingline Advances to the Borrower from time to time from on or after the date hereof through, but not including, the Termination Date; , that the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Outstandings (after giving effect to any amount requested), shall not exceed the Swingline Commitment, and that the Outstanding Credits of any Lender (after giving effect to any amount requested) shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment; and , that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swingline Advance to refinance any outstanding Swingline Advance. Each Swingline Advance shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 or any larger multiple of $1,000,000 (except that any such Swingline Advance may be in the aggregate amount of the unused Swingline Commitment). The Borrower shall repay to the Swingline Lender the outstanding principal amount of all Swingline Advances on the earlier of (i) 10 Business Days after the date a Swingline Advance is made and (ii) the Termination Date. Within the foregoing limits, the Borrower may borrow, repay and reborrow Swingline Advances, in each case under this Section 2.03.
provided
provided further
(e) Swingline Advances shall be refunded by the Lenders on demand by the Swingline Lender. Such refundings shall be made by the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitment Percentages and shall thereafter be reflected as Advances of the Lenders on the books and records of the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall fund its Commitment Percentage of Advances required to repay Swingline Advances outstanding upon demand by the Swingline Lender but in no event later than 1:00 P.M. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the next succeeding Business Day after such demand is made. No Lender's obligation to fund its Commitment Percentage of a Swingline Advance shall be affected by any other Lender's failure to fund its Commitment Percentage of a Swingline Advance, nor shall any Lender's Commitment Percentage be increased as a result of any such failure of any other Lender to fund its Commitment Percentage of a Swingline Advance.
(f) The Borrower shall pay to the Swingline Lender on demand, the outstanding principal amount of all Swingline Advances to the extent amounts received from the Lenders are not sufficient to repay in full the outstanding Swingline Advances requested or required to be refunded. In addition, the Borrower hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to charge any account maintained by the Borrower with the Swingline Lender (up to the amount available therein) in order to immediately pay the Swingline Lender the outstanding principal amount of such Swingline Advances to the extent amounts received from the Lenders are not sufficient to repay in full the outstanding principal amount of the Swingline Advances requested or required to be refunded. If any portion of any such amount paid to the Swingline Lender shall be recovered by or on behalf of the Borrower from the Swingline Lender in bankruptcy or
 
otherwise, the loss of the amount so recovered shall be ratably shared among all the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitment Percentages (unless the amounts so recovered by or on behalf of the Borrower pertain to a Swingline Advance extended after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default of which the Administrative Agent has received notice in the manner required pursuant to Section 5.01(b) and which such Event of Default has not been waived in accordance with Section 9.08).
(g) Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to refund Swingline Advances (other than Swingline Advances extended after the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default of which the Administrative Agent has received notice in the manner required pursuant to Section 5.01(b) and which such Event of Default has not been waived in accordance with Section 9.08) in accordance with the terms of this Section is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including, without limitation, non-satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Article III. Further, each Lender agrees and acknowledges that if prior to the refunding of any outstanding Swingline Advance pursuant to this Section, any event described in Section 7.01(e) or (f) shall have occurred, each Lender will, on the date the applicable Advance would have been made, purchase an undivided participating interest in such Swingline Advance to be refunded in an amount equal to its Commitment Percentage of the aggregate amount of such Swingline Advance. Each Lender will immediately transfer to the Swingline Lender, in immediately available funds, the amount of its participation, and upon receipt of such amount the Swingline Lender will deliver to such Lender a certificate evidencing such participation dated the date of receipt of such funds and for such amount. Whenever, at any time after the Swingline Lender has received from any Lender such Lender's participating interest in a Swingline Advance, the Swingline Lender receives any payment on account thereof, the Swingline Lender will distribute to such Lender its participating interest in such amount (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's participating interest was outstanding and funded).
Section 2.04. Letters of Credit.
(a) Upon the written request of the Borrower and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, an LC Bank, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this Section 2.04, shall issue Letters of Credit hereunder for the account of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; that the Borrower shall be the account party for the purposes of this Agreement and shall have the reimbursement obligations with respect thereto. Each Letter of Credit shall be issued in a form acceptable to the issuing LC Bank. Each Letter of Credit shall be issued (or the stated maturity thereof extended or terms thereof modified or amended) on not less than two Business Days' (or such shorter period as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the applicable LC Bank) prior notice thereof by delivery of (x) a Request for Issuance of a Letter of Credit and (y) a Letter of Credit Application to such LC Bank (with a copy to the Administrative Agent, which shall promptly forward copies thereof to the Lenders). Each such Request for Issuance shall specify (i) the date (which shall be a Business Day) of issuance of such Letter of Credit (or the date of effectiveness of such extension, modification or amendment) and the stated expiry date thereof (which shall be no later than the earliest to occur of (x) one year after the date of issuance (or later, with the consent of the applicable LC Bank, subject to the limitation in clause (y) below) and (y) the fifth Business Day preceding the Termination Date; , that Auto-Extension Letters of Credit will be permitted, subject to the limitation in clause (y) above
provided
provided
 
and subsection (b) below), (ii) the proposed stated amount of such Letter of Credit, (iii) the name and address of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit and (iv) a statement of drawing conditions applicable to such Letter of Credit, and if such request for issuance relates to an amendment or modification of a Letter of Credit, it shall be accompanied by the consent of the beneficiary of the Letter of Credit thereto. Each Request for Issuance of a Letter of Credit shall be irrevocable unless modified or rescinded by the Borrower not less than one Business Day prior to the proposed date of issuance (or effectiveness) specified therein. Unless the applicable LC Bank has received written notice from any Lender or the Administrative Agent, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment specified in such Request for Issuance, that one or more applicable conditions contained in Section 3.01 or 3.02 shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the applicable LC Bank shall, not later than 12:00 noon on such requested date, issue (or extend, amend or modify) such Letter of Credit and provide notice and a copy thereof to the Borrower and to the Administrative Agent, in each case in accordance with the LC Bank's usual and customary business practices. The Administrative Agent shall furnish (i) to each Lender, a copy of such notice and (ii) to each Lender that may so request, a copy of such Letter of Credit. The LC Bank shall provide to the Administrative Agent, on a monthly basis, a list of the amounts and expiration dates of all undrawn Letters of Credit, a copy of which list the Administrative Agent shall furnish to each Lender that may so request. No Letter of Credit shall be amended or modified after issuance (i) other than in accordance with its terms, which terms permit reductions by the beneficiary by delivery of a certificate attached to such Letter of Credit, or (ii) without the prior written consent of the Borrower, which consent may be sent by telecopy.
(b) If the Borrower so requests in any Request for Issuance or Letter of Credit Application, the applicable LC Bank shall issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit such LC Bank to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by such LC Bank, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such LC Bank for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) such LC Bank to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the day that is five Business Days prior to the Termination Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day); , , that such LC Bank shall not permit any such extension if (A) such LC Bank has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of Section 2.04(a) or (d) or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is seven Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date from the Administrative Agent that an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
provided
Non-Extension Notice Date
provided
however
(c) If the Borrower so requests in any Request for Issuance or Letter of Credit Application, the applicable LC Bank may, in its sole discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that permits the automatic reinstatement of all or a portion of the stated amount thereof after any drawing thereunder (each, an ""). Unless otherwise
Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit
 
directed by such LC Bank, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such LC Bank to permit such reinstatement. Once an Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) such LC Bank to reinstate all or a portion of the stated amount thereof in accordance with the provisions of such Letter of Credit; , , that such LC Bank shall not permit any such reinstatement if such LC Bank has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to reinstate such Letter of Credit under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of the first sentence of Section 2.04(d) or otherwise).
provided
however
(d) No Letter of Credit shall be requested, issued, extended or reinstated hereunder if, after the issuance, extension or reinstatement thereof, (i) the LC Outstandings would exceed the LC Committed Amount, (ii) the Outstanding Credits would exceed the aggregate Commitments or (iii) the LC Outstandings with respect to all Letters of Credit issued by any LC Bank would exceed the Fronting Commitment of such LC Bank. No LC Bank shall be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if (A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain such LC Bank from issuing such Letter of Credit, (B) any law applicable to such LC Bank or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over such LC Bank shall prohibit, or request that such LC Bank refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon such LC Bank with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which such LC Bank is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Original Agreement Date, or shall impose upon such LC Bank any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense that was not applicable on the Original Agreement Date and that such LC Bank in good faith deems material to it, (C) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of such LC Bank or (D) any Lender is at that time a Defaulting Lender, unless such LC Bank has entered into arrangements, including the delivery of cash collateral, satisfactory to such LC Bank (in its sole discretion) with the Borrower or such Lender to eliminate such LC Bank's actual or potential Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to Section 9.15(a)(iv)) with respect to the Defaulting Lender arising from either the Letter of Credit then proposed to be issued or that Letter of Credit and all other LC Outstandings as to which such LC Bank has actual or potential Fronting Exposure, as it may elect in its sole discretion.
(e) The Borrower hereby agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable LC Bank, no later than the second Business Day following demand made by such LC Bank or the Administrative Agent, on and after the date on which such LC Bank shall pay any amount under any Letter of Credit issued by it, a sum equal to the amount so paid plus interest on such amount from the date so paid by such LC Bank until repayment to such LC Bank in full at a fluctuating interest rate equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances plus, if any amount paid by such LC Bank under a Letter of Credit is not reimbursed by the Borrower on or prior to the date when due under this clause (e) (whether with the proceeds of Advances or otherwise), 2%.
per annum
plus
(f) If the Borrower shall not have reimbursed the LC Bank for any Unreimbursed LC Disbursement by 10:00 A.M. on the second Business Day following demand for payment by an LC Bank or the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (e) above, then, unless the Borrower shall have notified the Administrative Agent otherwise, the LC Bank shall promptly
 
deliver notice of such failure to reimburse to the Administrative Agent, and the Borrower shall be deemed to have delivered to the Administrative Agent a Borrowing Request for a Borrowing to be made on such date comprising Base Rate Advances in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Unreimbursed LC Disbursement. The Administrative Agent shall deliver prompt notice of such Borrowing Request to the Lenders, and each Lender shall make the Advance to be made by it in connection with such Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.02(c); , the proceeds of such Advances shall be credited solely to the account of the applicable LC Bank in order to reimburse such LC Bank for such Unreimbursed LC Disbursement. If and to the extent that any Lender shall have funded its participation in such Unreimbursed LC Disbursement pursuant to subsection (h) below prior to the time that such Lender is required to fund its Advance under this subsection (f) pursuant to a Borrowing made to reimburse the LC Bank for such Unreimbursed LC Disbursement, then such participation interest shall be deemed to be such Lender's Advance made as part of such Borrowing, and such Lender shall have no further obligation to fund an Advance as part of such Borrowing. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this subsection (f), if the conditions precedent to Extensions of Credit in Section 3.02 are not satisfied on the date the Borrowing Request described above is deemed to be given by the Borrower, then amounts funded by the Lenders under this subsection (f) will not constitute Advances hereunder but will constitute participations purchased by the Lenders in the applicable Unreimbursed LC Disbursement pursuant to subsection (h) below.
provided, however
(g) Upon the issuance of any Letter of Credit by an LC Bank, such LC Bank hereby sells and transfers to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such LC Bank, an undivided interest and participation to the extent of such Lender's Commitment Percentage in and to such Letter of Credit, including the obligations of such LC Bank under and in respect thereof and the Borrower's reimbursement and other obligations in respect thereof, whether now existing or hereafter arising.
(h) Each Lender, upon issuance of a Letter of Credit, shall be deemed to have purchased without recourse a risk participation from the applicable LC Bank in such Letter of Credit and the rights and obligations arising thereunder, in each case in an amount equal to its Commitment Percentage of the obligations under such Letter of Credit, and shall absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably assume, as primary obligor and not as surety, and be obligated to pay to the applicable LC Bank therefor and discharge when due, its Commitment Percentage of the obligations arising under such Letter of Credit. Without limiting the scope and nature of each Lender's participation in any Letter of Credit, if an LC Bank shall not have been reimbursed in full for any payment made by such LC Bank under any Letter of Credit on the date of such payment, such LC Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such non-reimbursement and the amount thereof. Upon receipt of such notice from the Administrative Agent, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such LC Bank an amount equal to such Lender's Commitment Percentage of such Unreimbursed LC Disbursement, plus interest on such amount at a rate equal to the Federal Funds Effective Rate from the date of such payment by such LC Bank to the date of payment to such LC Bank by such Lender. All such payments by each Lender shall be made in United States dollars and in same day funds not later than 3:00 P.M. on the later to occur of (A) the Business Day immediately following the date of such payment by such LC Bank and (B) the Business Day on which such Lender shall have received notice of such non-reimbursement; that if such notice is received by
per annum
provided, however,
 
such Lender later than 11:00 A.M. on such Business Day, such payment shall be payable on the next Business Day. Each Lender agrees that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. If a Lender shall have paid to such LC Bank its ratable portion of any Unreimbursed LC Disbursement, together with all interest thereon required by the second sentence of this subsection (h), such Lender shall be entitled to receive its ratable share of all interest paid by the Borrower in respect of such Unreimbursed LC Disbursement. If such Lender shall have made such payment to such LC Bank, but without all such interest thereon required by the second sentence of this subsection (h), such Lender shall be entitled to receive its ratable share of the interest paid by the Borrower in respect of such Unreimbursed LC Disbursement only from the date it shall have paid all interest required by the second sentence of this subsection (h).
(i) The failure of any Lender to make any payment to an LC Bank in accordance with subsection (f) or (h) above shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation to make payment, but neither such LC Bank nor any Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make such payment. If any Lender shall fail to make any payment to an LC Bank in accordance with subsection (f) or (h) above, then such Lender shall pay to such LC Bank forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day until the date such amount is repaid to such LC Bank at the Federal Funds Effective Rate. Nothing herein shall in any way limit, waive or otherwise reduce any claims that any party hereto may have against any non-performing Lender.
(j) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment to an LC Bank in accordance with subsection (f) or (h) above, then, in addition to other rights and remedies that such LC Bank may have, the Administrative Agent is hereby authorized, at the request of such LC Bank, to withhold and to apply to the payment of such amounts owing by such Lender to such LC Bank and any related interest, that portion of any payment received by the Administrative Agent that would otherwise be payable to such Lender. In furtherance of the foregoing, if any Lender shall fail to make any payment to an LC Bank in accordance with subsection (f) or (h) above, and such failure shall continue for five Business Days following written notice of such failure from such LC Bank to such Lender, such LC Bank may acquire, or transfer to a third party acceptable to the Borrower, such acceptance, not to be unreasonably withheld, in exchange for the sum or sums due from such Lender, such Lender's interest in the related Unreimbursed LC Disbursement and all other rights of such Lender hereunder in respect thereof, without, however, relieving such Lender from any liability for damages, costs and expenses suffered by such LC Bank as a result of such failure, and prior to such transfer, such LC Bank shall be deemed, for purposes of Section 2.15 and Article VII hereof, to be a Lender hereunder owed an Advance in an amount equal to the outstanding principal amount due and payable by such Lender to the Administrative Agent for the account of such LC Bank pursuant to subsection (f) or (h) above. The purchaser of any such interest shall be deemed to have acquired an interest senior to the interest of such Lender and shall be entitled to receive all subsequent payments that such LC Bank or the Administrative Agent would otherwise have made hereunder to such Lender in respect of such interest.
(k) The payment obligations of the Borrower under Section 2.04(e) in respect of any payment under any Letter of Credit shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid
 
strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including, without limitation, the following circumstances:
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto or to such Letter of Credit;
(ii) any amendment or waiver of, or any consent to departure from, the terms of this Agreement or such Letter of Credit;
(iii) the existence of any claim, set-off, defense or other right that the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary, or any transferee, of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for which any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated thereby or by such Letter of Credit, or any unrelated transaction;
(iv) any statement or any other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect;
(v) payment in good faith by an LC Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit;
(vi) any failure to issue a Letter of Credit (or any amendment thereto) in accordance with the specifications set forth by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04(a), that the Borrower may cause such a Letter of Credit (or such amendment) to be replaced or rescinded if (A) it provides written notice to the applicable LC Bank (which shall promptly forward copies to the Administrative Agent for distribution to the Lenders) of any discrepancy from such specifications within three Business Days after the Borrower shall have received a copy of such Letter of Credit (or such amendment), (B) such discrepancy is material and consequential, and (C) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit consents in writing to such replacement or revocation;
provided
(vii) any claim or potential claim for breach of warranty by the applicable LC Bank, the Lenders or the Borrower against the beneficiary of a Letter of Credit;
(viii) any action or inaction taken or not taken by an LC Bank or any of its correspondents in connection with any Letter of Credit or any sight draft, certificate or other document presented pursuant thereto, if taken or not taken, as the case may be, in good faith and in conformity with applicable law.
(l) Without limiting any other provision of this Section 2.04, for purposes of this Section 2.04 each LC Bank and any of its respective correspondents:
(i) may rely upon any oral, telephonic, telegraphic, facsimile, electronic, written or other communication believed in good faith to have been authorized by the Borrower, whether or not given or signed by an authorized person of the Borrower;
 
(ii) shall not be responsible for errors, omissions, interruptions or delays in transmission or delivery of any message, advice or document in connection with a Letter of Credit, whether transmitted by courier or facsimile, or for errors in interpretation of technical terms or in translation (and such LC Bank and its correspondents may transmit Letter of Credit terms without translating them), other than those errors resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct of such LC Bank or such correspondent, as the case may be, as determined by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction;
(iii) shall not be responsible, absent the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such LC Bank or its correspondents, as determined by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, for verifying the identity or authority of any signer of, or the form, accuracy, genuineness, falsification or legal effect of, any draft, certificate or other document presented under any Letter of Credit if such draft, certificate or other document on its face appears to be in order;
(iv) shall not be responsible for any acts or omissions by, or the solvency of, the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit or any other person or entity having any role in any transaction underlying such Letter of Credit;
(v) may accept or pay as complying with the terms and conditions of any Letter of Credit, any draft, certificate or other document appearing on its face (i) substantially to comply with the terms and conditions of such Letter of Credit, (ii) to be signed or presented by, or issued to any successor of, the beneficiary or any other person required or authorized by such Letter of Credit to sign or present any sight draft, certificate or other document under such Letter of Credit, including any administrator, executor, personal representative, trustee in bankruptcy, debtor in possession, liquidator, receiver, or successor by merger or consolidation, or any other person or entity purporting to act as the representative of or in place of any of the foregoing, or (iii) to have been signed, presented or issued after a change of name of the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit;
(vi) may disregard any discrepancies known to it in any Letter of Credit that do not reduce, in the good faith judgment of such LC Bank or its correspondents, the value of the performance to the Borrower by the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit in any transaction underlying such Letter of Credit;
(vii) shall not be responsible for the effectiveness or suitability of any Letter of Credit with respect to the Borrower's purpose in requesting such Letter of Credit;
(viii) shall not be liable to the Borrower for any consequential or special damages, or for any damages resulting from any change in the value of any goods or other property subject to or underlying any Letter of Credit;
(ix) absent any gross negligence or willful misconduct on part of such LC Bank or its correspondents, as determined by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, may honor a previously dishonored presentation under a Letter of Credit, whether pursuant to court order, to settle or compromise any claim wrongfully dishonored, or otherwise, and shall be
 
entitled to reimbursement of amounts paid under such Letter of Credit to the same extent as if such presentation had been honored initially; and
(x) may pay amounts owed to any paying or negotiating bank (designated or permitted by the terms of any Letter of Credit) claiming that it rightfully honored, under the laws or practices of the place where it is located, any sight draft, certificate or other document presented under any Letter of Credit.
None of the circumstances described in this Section 2.04(l) shall subject such LC Bank or any of its correspondents to any liability to the Borrower.
(m) The Borrower assumes all risks of the acts and omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit. Neither the Administrative Agent, any LC Bank, the Lenders nor any of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys-in-fact or Affiliates shall be liable or responsible for (i) the use that may be made of such Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee thereof in connection therewith; (ii) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; (iii) payment by any LC Bank against presentation of documents that do not comply with the terms of a Letter of Credit, including failure of any documents to bear any reference or adequate reference to such Letter of Credit; or (iv) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under a Letter of Credit, except that the Borrower shall have the right to bring suit against the applicable LC Bank, and the applicable LC Bank shall be liable to the Borrower, to the extent of any direct, as opposed to consequential, damages suffered by the Borrower that the Borrower proves were caused by the applicable LC Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence, as determined by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, including the applicable LC Bank's willful failure to make timely payment under such Letter of Credit following the presentation to it by the beneficiary thereof of a draft and accompanying certificate(s) that strictly comply with the terms and conditions of such Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, any LC Bank may accept sight drafts and accompanying certificates presented under the Letter of Credit issued by such LC Bank that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and payment against such documents shall not constitute willful misconduct or gross negligence by such LC Bank. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Lender shall be obligated to indemnify the LC Bank for damages caused by any LC Bank's willful misconduct or gross negligence, as determined by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(n) The Borrower acknowledges that the rights and obligations of the applicable LC Bank under any Letter of Credit are independent of the existence, performance or nonperformance of any contract or arrangement underlying such Letter of Credit. The applicable LC Bank may, without incurring any liability to the Borrower or impairing its entitlement to reimbursement under this Agreement, honor any Letter of Credit despite notice from the Borrower of, and without any duty to inquire into, any defense to payment or any adverse claims or other rights against the beneficiary of the Letter of Credit or any other person. The applicable LC Bank shall have no duty to request or require the presentation of any document, including any default certificate, not required to be presented under the terms and conditions of any Letter
 
of Credit. The applicable LC Bank shall have no duty to seek any waiver of discrepancies from the Borrower, nor any duty to grant any waiver of discrepancies that the Borrower approves or requests. The applicable LC Bank shall have no duty to extend the expiration date or term of any Letter of Credit or, except as provided under Section 2.04(k)(vi), to issue a replacement letter of credit on or before the expiration date of such Letter of Credit or the end of such term. The applicable LC Bank shall not be liable to the Borrower under this Section 2.04(n) for any action or inaction by it, unless such action or inaction results from such LC Bank's gross negligence or willful misconduct, as determined by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(o) Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the applicable LC Bank and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued, the rules of the ISP shall apply to each Letter of Credit, that, if the Borrower wishes to opt out of Rule 3.14 of the ISP for a Letter of Credit, the Borrower must so request in the Request for Issuance and Letter of Credit Application for such Letter of Credit, and that, if the applicable LC Bank is not so instructed, then Rule 3.14 of the ISP shall be deemed to apply to such Letter of Credit, and such Letter of Credit shall be deemed outstanding as indicated in the last sentence of the definition of "LC Outstandings".
provided
provided further
Section 2.05. Fees
(a) . In consideration of the Commitments being made available by the Lenders, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the pro rata benefit of the Lenders, a facility fee equal to the Facility Fee Rate in effect from time to time multiplied by the aggregate amount of the Commitments from time to time (regardless of usage), payable in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December during the term of such Lender's Commitment and on the Termination Date.
Facility Fee
(b) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a letter of credit fee (the ""), at a rate equal to the Applicable Margin with respect to Eurodollar Advances on the daily average amount of each such Lender's Commitment Percentage multiplied by the LC Outstandings, from the date hereof until the later to occur of the Termination Date and the date on which no Letters of Credit in which such Lender is obligated to participate are outstanding, payable in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December during the term of such Lender's Commitment, and on such later date.
Letter of Credit Fee
Letter of Credit Fee
per annum
(c) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, and to the Arrangers, for their own respective accounts, such other fees as are required to be paid to it under the Fee Letters. The Borrower shall pay to each LC Bank, for its own account, such other fees relating to the issuance of Letters of Credit as have been or may from time to time be agreed between them.
Additional Fees
(d) . Once paid, none of the facility fees, the Letter of Credit Fees or other fees provided for in this Section 2.05 shall be refundable under any circumstances. All fees shall be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days.
Nonrefundable; Basis for Calculation
 
Section 2.06. Repayment of Advances; Evidence of Indebtedness.
(a) The outstanding principal balance of each Advance, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon shall be due and payable on the Termination Date.
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness to such Lender resulting from each Advance made by such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time under this Agreement.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it will record (i) the amount of each Advance made hereunder, the Type of each Advance made and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from the Borrower and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to subsections (b) and (c) of this Section 2.06 shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations therein recorded; , that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligations of the Borrower to repay the Advances and interest thereon in accordance with their terms.
provided, however
(e) Any Lender may request that its Advances be evidenced by a Note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender. Thereafter, the Advances evidenced by such Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after any assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more Notes payable to the order of the payee named therein or any assignee pursuant to Section 9.04, except to the extent that any such Lender or assignee subsequently returns any such Note for cancellation and requests that such Advances once again be evidenced as described in subsections (a) and (b) above.
Section 2.07. Interest.
(a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (d) below and Sections 2.08, 2.09 and 2.13, the Advances comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days), at a rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Margin.
per annum
(b) Subject to the provisions of Sections 2.08, the Advances comprising each Swingline Advance shall bear interest (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 365/366 days) at a rate equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances.
per annum
(c) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.08, the Advances comprising each Base Rate Borrowing shall bear interest (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed
 
over a year of 365/366 days) at a rate equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
per annum
(d) Interest on each Advance shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable to such Advance except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender any costs actually incurred by such Lender in connection with making or maintaining Extensions of Credit hereunder that are attributable to such Lender's compliance with regulations of the Board requiring the maintenance of reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities. Such costs shall be paid to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender in the form of additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Advance of such Lender, from the date such Advance is made until such principal amount is paid in full, at an interest rate equal at all times to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the Eurodollar Rate for the Interest Period for such Advance from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing such Eurodollar Rate by a percentage equal to 100% the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage of such Lender for such Interest Period, payable on each Interest Payment Date for such Advance. Such additional interest shall be determined by such Lender and notified to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent at least two Business Days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, , that failure to so notify the Borrower shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to request and receive additional interest under this subsection (d). A certificate as to the amount of such additional interest, submitted to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error. Each Lender claiming any additional interest payable pursuant to this subsection shall use reasonable efforts (consistent with legal and regulatory restrictions) to file any certificate or document reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower or to change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a filing or change would avoid the need for or reduce the amount of any such additional interest that may thereafter be due and payable and would not, in the good faith determination of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
per annum
minus
provided
Section 2.08. Default Interest.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.04(e), if and for so long as an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Advance outstanding hereunder shall bear interest at the rate otherwise applicable to such Advance 2%. Without limiting the foregoing, if the Borrower shall default in the payment of any amount becoming due hereunder (other than the principal amount of any Advance), whether by scheduled maturity, notice of prepayment, acceleration or otherwise, the Borrower shall on demand from time to time from the Administrative Agent pay interest, to the extent permitted by law, on such defaulted amount up to (but not including) the date of actual payment (after as well as before judgment) at a rate (computed as provided in Section 2.07(c)) equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances plus 2%.
plus
per annum
 
Section 2.09. Alternate Rate of Interest.
In the event, and on each occasion, that on the day two Business Days prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing the Administrative Agent shall have determined (i) that dollar deposits in the principal amounts of the Eurodollar Advances comprising such Borrowing are not generally available in the London interbank market or (ii) that reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurodollar Rate, the Administrative Agent shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, give telecopy notice of such determination to the Borrower and the Lenders. In the event of any such determination under clause (i) or (ii) above, until the Administrative Agent shall have advised the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (x) any request by the Borrower for a Eurodollar Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.03 shall be deemed to be a request for a Base Rate Borrowing and (y) each Eurodollar Advance then outstanding will automatically, on the last day of the then applicable Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance. In the event the Majority Lenders notify the Administrative Agent that the rates at which dollar deposits are being offered will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining Eurodollar Advances during any Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of such notice and until the Majority Lenders shall have advised the Administrative Agent that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (A) any request by the Borrower for a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be deemed a request for a Base Rate Borrowing and (B) each Eurodollar Advance then outstanding will automatically, on the last day of the then applicable Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance. Each determination by the Administrative Agent hereunder shall be made in good faith and shall be conclusive absent manifest error; that the Administrative Agent shall, upon request, provide to the Borrower a certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for such determination.
provided
Section 2.10. Termination and Reduction of Commitments.
(a) The Commitments shall automatically terminate on the Termination Date.
(b) Upon at least three Business Days' prior irrevocable written notice to the Administrative Agent, the Borrower may at any time in whole permanently terminate, or from time to time in part permanently reduce, the Commitments; , that (i) each partial reduction of the Commitments shall be in an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000, (ii) no such termination or reduction shall be made that would reduce the aggregate Commitments to an amount (A) less than the Outstanding Credits on the date of such termination or reduction (after giving effect to Section 2.11(b)) or (B) less than $25,000,000, unless the result of such termination or reduction referred to in this clause (B) is to reduce the aggregate Commitments to $0 and (iii) the definition of "LC Committed Amount" set forth in Section 1.01 shall be deemed amended to reflect an LC Committed Amount equal to the aggregate Commitments following such reduction. The Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of any notice given pursuant to this Section 2.10(b) and of each Lender's portion of any such termination or reduction of the aggregate Commitments.
provided, however
(c) Each reduction in the Commitments hereunder shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments. Once terminated, a Commitment
 
may not be reinstated. The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders, on the date of each termination or reduction of the Commitments, the fees payable on the Commitments under Section 2.05 so terminated or reduced accrued through the date of such termination or reduction.
Section 2.11. Prepayment.
(a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing, in whole or in part, upon giving telecopy notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed by telecopy) to the Administrative Agent: (i) before 10:00 A.M. three Business Days prior to prepayment, in the case of Eurodollar Advances, and (ii) before 10:00 A.M. one Business Day prior to prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances; , that each partial prepayment shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000.
provided, however
(b) If at any time (i) the aggregate Outstanding Credits exceed the aggregate Commitments or (ii) the aggregate LC Outstandings exceed the LC Committed Amount, the Borrower shall pay or prepay so much of the Borrowings and/or deposit funds in the Cash Collateral Account in respect of undrawn Letters of Credit outstanding on such date, as applicable, as shall be necessary in order that the Outstanding Credits will not exceed the Commitments and the LC Outstandings will not exceed the LC Committed Amount.
(c) Each notice of prepayment shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing (or portion thereof) to be prepaid, shall be irrevocable and shall commit the Borrower to prepay such Borrowing (or portion thereof) by the amount stated therein on the date stated therein. All prepayments under this Section 2.11 shall be subject to Section 9.05(b) but otherwise without premium or penalty. All prepayments under this Section 2.11 shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the principal amount being prepaid to the date of payment.
Section 2.12. Reserve Requirements; Change in Circumstances.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if after the Original Agreement Date the enactment of any new law or regulation, or any change in applicable existing law or regulation, or in the interpretation or administration of the foregoing by any Governmental Authority charged with the interpretation or administration thereof (whether or not having the force of law), including, without limitation, all requests, rules, guidelines or directives in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued, shall change the basis of taxation of payments to any Lender hereunder (except for changes in respect of (i) Indemnified Taxes, (ii) Taxes described in clauses (ii) through (iv) of the definition of Excluded Taxes and (iii) Connection Income Taxes), or shall result in the imposition, modification or applicability of any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of or credit extended by any Lender, or shall result in the imposition on any Lender or the London interbank market of any other condition affecting this Agreement, such Lender's Commitment or any Extension of Credit made by such Lender, and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Extension of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum
 
received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise) by an amount deemed in good faith by such Lender to be material, then the Borrower shall, upon receipt of the notice and certificate provided for in Section 2.12(c), promptly pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender shall have determined that the adoption after the Original Agreement Date of any law, rule, regulation or guideline promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Regulations and Supervisory Practices (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States financial regulatory authorities or the adoption after the Original Agreement Date of any other law, rule, regulation or guideline regarding capital adequacy, or any change in any of the foregoing or in the interpretation or administration of any of the foregoing by any Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Lender (or any lending office of such Lender) or any Lender's holding company with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency, has the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, such Lender's Commitment or the Extensions of Credit made by such Lender pursuant hereto to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed in good faith by such Lender to be material, then from time to time such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for any such reduction suffered will be paid by the Borrower to such Lender. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 2.12(b) shall apply to all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy issued in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy.
(c) A certificate of each Lender setting forth such amount or amounts as shall be necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company as specified in subsection (a) or (b) above, as the case may be, and containing an explanation in reasonable detail of the manner in which such amount or amounts shall have been determined, shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay each Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate delivered by it within 10 days after its receipt of the same. Each Lender shall give prompt notice to the Borrower of any event of which it has knowledge, occurring after the Original Agreement Date, that it has determined will require compensation by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.12. If any such law, rule, regulation, guideline or other change or condition described in this Section 2.12 shall later be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or inapplicable to the Borrower or such Lender, such Lender shall promptly refund to the Borrower any amounts previously paid by the Borrower to such Lender pursuant to this Section 2.12.
(d) Failure on the part of any Lender to demand compensation for any increased costs or reduction in amounts received or receivable or reduction in return on capital with respect to any period shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand compensation with
 
respect to such period or any other period; that such Lender shall not be entitled to demand compensation hereunder if such demand is made more than 90 days following the later of such Lender's incurrence or sufferance thereof and such Lender's actual knowledge of the event giving rise to such Lender's rights under this Section. The protection of this Section shall be available to each Lender regardless of any possible contention of the invalidity or inapplicability of the law, rule, regulation, guideline or other change or condition that shall have occurred or been imposed.
provided
(e) Each Lender agrees that it will designate a different lending office if such designation will avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such compensation and will not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be disadvantageous to such Lender.
Section 2.13. Change in Legality.
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision herein, if the introduction of, or any change in, any law or regulation or in the interpretation thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the administration or interpretation thereof shall make it unlawful for any Lender to make or maintain any Eurodollar Advance or to give effect to its obligations as contemplated hereby with respect to any Eurodollar Advance, then, by written notice to the Borrower and to the Administrative Agent, such Lender may:
(i) declare that Eurodollar Advances will not thereafter be made by such Lender hereunder, whereupon any request for a Eurodollar Borrowing shall, as to such Lender only, be deemed a request for a Base Rate Advance unless such declaration shall be subsequently withdrawn (any Lender delivering such a declaration hereby agreeing to withdraw such declaration promptly upon determining that such event of illegality no longer exists); and
(ii) require that all outstanding Eurodollar Advances made by it be Converted to Base Rate Advances, in which event all such Eurodollar Advances shall be automatically Converted to Base Rate Advances as of the effective date of such notice as provided in subsection (b) below.
Prior to any Lender giving notice to the Borrower under this Section 2.13, such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office, if such change would avoid such event of illegality and would not, in the sole reasonable determination of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender. In the event any Lender shall exercise its rights under (i) or (ii) above, all payments and prepayments of principal that would otherwise have been applied to repay the Eurodollar Advances that would have been made by such Lender or the Converted Eurodollar Advances of such Lender shall instead be applied to repay the Base Rate Advances made by such Lender in lieu of, or resulting from the Conversion of, such Eurodollar Advances.
(b) For purposes of this Section 2.13, a notice by any Lender shall be effective as to each Eurodollar Advance, if lawful, on the last day of the Interest Period currently applicable to such Eurodollar Advance; in all other cases such notice shall be effective on the date of receipt.
 
Section 2.14. Pro Rata Treatment.
Except as required under Section 2.07(e), 2.12, 2.13, 2.17 or 9.15, each Borrowing, each payment or prepayment of principal of any Borrowing, each payment of interest on the Advances, each payment of facility fees and Letter of Credit Fees, each reduction of the Commitments and each Conversion of any Advance by the Borrower shall be allocated pro rata among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments (or, if such Commitments shall have expired or been terminated, in accordance with the respective Outstanding Credits of the Lenders); that the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by or on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender). For purposes of determining the available or used Commitments at any time, the LC Outstandings shall be deemed to have utilized the Commitments of the Lenders pro rata in accordance with their respective Commitments. Each Lender agrees that in computing such Lender's portion of any Borrowing to be made hereunder, the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion, round each Lender's percentage of such Borrowing to the next higher or lower whole dollar amount. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in connection with an extension of the Termination Date described in the last proviso in the first sentence of Section 9.08(b), this Agreement may provide for an increase in or otherwise different fees, margins and other amounts payable to the extending Lenders relative to the amounts payable to Lenders that do not consent to the extension.
provided further,
Section 2.15. Sharing of Setoffs.
Each Lender agrees that if it shall, through the exercise of a right of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim, or pursuant to a secured claim under Section 506 of Title 11 of the United States Code or other security or interest arising from, or in lieu of, such secured claim, received by such Lender under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law or otherwise, or by any other means, obtain payment (voluntary or involuntary) in respect of any Extension of Credit, in any case as a result of which the unpaid principal portion of its Extensions of Credit shall be proportionately less than the unpaid principal portion of the Extensions of Credit of any other Lender, it shall be deemed simultaneously to have purchased from such other Lender at face value, and shall promptly pay to such other Lender the purchase price for, a participation in the Extensions of Credit of such other Lender, so that the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Extensions of Credit and participations in the Extensions of Credit held by each Lender shall be in the same proportion to the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Extensions of Credit then outstanding as the principal amount of its Extensions of Credit prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event was to the principal amount of all Extensions of Credit outstanding prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event; , that, (i) if any such purchase or purchases or adjustments shall be made pursuant to this Section 2.15 and the payment giving rise thereto shall thereafter be recovered, such purchase or purchases or adjustments shall be rescinded to the extent of such recovery and the purchase price or prices or adjustment restored without interest and (ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by or on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender), (y) the application of cash collateral provided for in Section 7.02, or (z) any payment obtained by a Lender as
provided, however
 
consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Commitment, including pursuant to Section 2.18. The Borrower expressly consents to the foregoing arrangements and agrees that any Lender holding a participation in an Extension of Credit deemed to have been so purchased may exercise any and all rights of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim with respect to any and all moneys owing by the Borrower to such Lender by reason thereof as fully as if such Lender had made an Extension of Credit in the amount of such participation.
Section 2.16. Payments.
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment (including principal of or interest on any Borrowing, any fees, any reimbursements in respect of Letters of Credit that have been paid by any Lender or other amounts) hereunder without setoff, counterclaim, defense, recoupment or other deduction from an account in the United States not later than 12:00 noon on the date when due in dollars to the Administrative Agent at its offices specified in Section 9.01, in immediately available funds.
(b) Whenever any payment (including principal of or interest on any Borrowing, any fees, any reimbursements in respect of Letters of Credit that have been paid by any Lender or other amounts) hereunder shall become due, or otherwise would occur, on a day that is not a Business Day, such payment may be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of interest or fees, if applicable.
Section 2.17. Taxes.
(a) For purposes of this Section 2.17, the term "Lender" includes any LC Bank and the Swingline Lender.
(b) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of any Loan Party under any Credit Document shall be made without deduction or withholding for any Taxes, except as required by applicable law. If any applicable law (as determined in the good faith discretion of an applicable Withholding Agent) requires the deduction or withholding of any Tax from any such payment by a Withholding Agent, then the applicable Withholding Agent shall be entitled to make such deduction or withholding and shall timely pay the full amount deducted or withheld to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law and, if such Tax is an Indemnified Tax, then the sum payable by the applicable Loan Party shall be increased as necessary so that after such deduction or withholding has been made (including such deductions and withholdings applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the applicable Recipient receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deduction or withholding been made.
(c) The Loan Parties shall timely pay to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law, or at the option of the Administrative Agent timely reimburse it for the payment of, any Other Taxes.
(d) The Loan Parties shall jointly and severally indemnify each Recipient, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) payable or
 
paid by such Recipient or required to be withheld or deducted from a payment to such Recipient and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(e) Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent, within 10 days after demand therefor, for (i) any Indemnified Taxes attributable to such Lender (but only to the extent that any Loan Party has not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Loan Parties to do so), (ii) any Taxes attributable to such Lender's failure to comply with the provisions of Section 9.04 relating to the maintenance of a Participant Register and (iii) any Excluded Taxes attributable to such Lender, in each case, that are payable or paid by the Administrative Agent in connection with any Credit Document, and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to any Lender by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Each Lender hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender under any Credit Document or otherwise payable by the Administrative Agent to the Lender from any other source against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this subsection (e).
(f) As soon as practicable after any payment of Taxes by any Loan Party to a Governmental Authority pursuant to this Section 2.17, such Loan Party shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(g) (i) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding Tax with respect to payments made under any Credit Document shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in Sections 2.17(g)(ii)(A), (ii)(B) and (ii)(D) below) shall not be required if in the Lender's reasonable judgment such completion, execution or submission would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of such Lender.
 
(ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is a U.S. Person,
(A) any Lender that is a U.S. Person shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent), executed originals of IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. federal backup withholding tax;
(B) any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent), whichever of the following is applicable:
(i) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (x) with respect to payments of interest under any Credit Document, executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "interest" article of such tax treaty and (y) with respect to any other applicable payments under any Credit Document, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of such tax treaty;
(ii) executed originals of IRS Form W-8ECI;
(iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit K-1 to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code (a "") and (y) executed originals of IRS Form W-8BEN; or
U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
(iv) to the extent a Foreign Lender is not the beneficial owner, executed originals of IRS Form W-8IMY, accompanied by IRS Form W-8ECI, IRS Form W-8BEN, a U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit K-2 or Exhibit K-3, IRS Form W-9, and/or other certification documents from each beneficial owner, as applicable; that if the Foreign Lender is a partnership and one or more direct or indirect partners of such Foreign Lender are claiming the portfolio interest exemption, such Foreign Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate substantially in the form of Exhibit K-4 on behalf of each such direct and indirect partner;
provided
 
(C) any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent), executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in U.S. federal withholding Tax, duly completed, together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made; and
(D) if a payment made to a Lender under any Credit Document would be subject to U.S. federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this clause (D), "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of the Amendment and Restatement Agreement.
Each Lender agrees that if any form or certification it previously delivered expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect, it shall update such form or certification or promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in writing of its legal inability to do so.
(h) If any party determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified pursuant to this Section 2.17 (including by the payment of additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.17), it shall pay to the indemnifying party an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made under this Section with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses (including Taxes) of such indemnified party and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund). Such indemnifying party, upon the request of such indemnified party, shall repay to such indemnified party the amount paid over pursuant to this subsection (h) (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) in the event that such indemnified party is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this subsection (h), in no event will the indemnified party be required to pay any amount to an indemnifying party pursuant to this subsection (h) the payment of which would place the indemnified party in a less favorable net after-Tax position than the indemnified party would have been in if the indemnification payments or additional amounts giving rise to such refund had never been paid. This subsection shall not be construed
 
to require any indemnified party to make available its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes that it deems confidential) to the indemnifying party or any other Person.
(i) Each party's obligations under this Section 2.17 shall survive the resignation or replacement of the Administrative Agent or any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender, the termination of the Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all obligations under any Credit Document.
Section 2.18. Assignment of Commitments Under Certain Circumstances.
In the event that any Lender shall have delivered a notice or certificate pursuant to Section 2.12 or 2.13, or the Borrower shall be required to make additional payments to any Lender under Section 2.09 or 2.17, or any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender, or any Lender shall not consent to an amendment that requires the consent of such Lender and to which the Majority Lenders have consented, the Borrower shall have the right, at its own expense, upon notice to such Lender, to require such Lender to transfer and assign without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04) all such Lender's interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Credit Documents including without limitation in all interests in outstanding Letters of Credit, to another Eligible Assignee identified by the Borrower and approved by the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender and each LC Bank to the extent required for assignments under Section 9.04(b), which financial institution shall assume such obligations of such Lender for consideration equal to the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Advances, and if satisfactory arrangements are made for the payment to such Lender of interest and fees accrued hereunder to the date of such transfer and all other amounts payable hereunder to such Lender on or prior to the date of such transfer, including, without limitation, amounts payable under Section 9.05(b); that (i) no such assignment shall conflict with any law, rule or regulation or order of any Governmental Authority, (ii) the assignee or the Borrower, as the case may be, shall pay to the assignor in immediately available funds on or prior to the date of such assignment the principal of and interest accrued to the date of payment on the Extensions of Credit made by such assignor hereunder and all other amounts accrued for its account or owed to it hereunder and (iii), if the assignee is not a Lender prior to such assignment, the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent an administrative fee of $3,500 on or prior to the date of such assignment.
provided
Section 3.01. Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness.
This Agreement shall become effective, and shall be deemed to be dated as of, the Restatement Effective Date (as defined in the Amendment and Restatement Agreement).
Section 3.02. Conditions Precedent to Each Extension of Credit.
The obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be made by it (including the initial Advance to be made by it), the obligation of each LC Bank to issue Letters of Credit (including the initial Letter of Credit to be issued by it) or to amend any such Letter of Credit so as to increase the stated amount thereof and the obligation of the Swingline Lender to make any
 
Swingline Advance shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of such Extension of Credit, the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable notice or request by the Borrower with respect to such Extension of Credit and the acceptance of such Extension of Credit shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that, on the date of such Extension of Credit, such statements are true):
(a) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (excluding the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.01(e)(ii) and the first sentence of Section 4.01(f)) are correct on and as of the date of such Extension of Credit, before and after giving effect to such Extension of Credit and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
(b) No event has occurred and is continuing or would result from such Extension of Credit, or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes an Event of Default or, except in the case of a Borrowing that would not increase the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Credits, an Unmatured Event of Default.
Section 3.03. Conditions to Issuance of All Bond Letters of Credit.
The obligation of an LC Bank to issue any Bond Letter of Credit in connection with any series of Bonds shall be subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.02 and each of the further conditions precedent set forth below.
(a) On or prior to the date of such issuance, the Administrative Agent shall have received the following, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the applicable LC Bank with respect to such Bonds:
Documents.
(i) counterparts of any Pledge Agreement relating to such Bonds, duly executed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the applicable Custodian;
(ii) certified copies of the applicable Related Documents (which, in the case of the applicable Bonds, may be a specimen of such Bonds), other than any Pledge Agreement delivered pursuant to clause (i) above;
(iii) certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower providing for the basis for authorization of the Related Documents to which the Borrower is a party in connection with such Bond Letter of Credit, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and Governmental Approvals, if any, with respect to such Related Documents;
(iv) if such Bond Letter of Credit is to be issued on or about the date of issuance of the applicable Bonds, a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign any Related Document to which the Borrower is a party in connection with such Bond Letter of Credit and any other document to be delivered on behalf of the Borrower in connection with the issuance of such Bond Letter of Credit (together with a certificate of another officer as to the incumbency and specimen signature of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary executing the certificate in this clause);
 
(v) a copy of the Official Statement relating to the Bonds to be supported by such Bond Letter of Credit;
(vi) if a Pledge Agreement is being delivered pursuant to clause (i) above, a certificate of an authorized officer of the applicable Custodian certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Custodian authorized to sign the applicable Pledge Agreement;
(vii) a certificate of an authorized officer of the applicable Trustee certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Trustee authorized to make drawings under such Bond Letter of Credit;
(viii) favorable opinions of counsel to the Borrower and the applicable Issuer, in each case, with respect to the Related Documents to which each such Person is a party and such other matters as the Administrative Agent and the applicable LC Bank may reasonably request, or if such opinions were given with respect to such Related Documents prior to the date of issuance of such Bond Letter of Credit, reliance letters from counsel to the Borrower and the applicable Issuer permitting the applicable LC Bank to rely on such opinions;
(ix) a reliance letter from bond counsel relating to the Bonds to be supported by such Bond Letter of Credit permitting the Lenders to rely on the approving opinion of bond counsel with respect to such Bonds; and
(x) such other documents, certificates, opinions, approvals and filings with respect to the applicable Related Documents as the Administrative Agent or the applicable LC Bank may reasonably request in writing.
(b) On the date of such issuance, the following statements shall be true and correct, and the Administrative Agent shall have received on or before such date for the account of the Bank a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated such date, stating that the following representations and warranties are true and correct in all material respects on and as of such date, as though made on and as of such date:
Further Representations and Warranties.
(i) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each Related Document to which the Borrower is a party in connection with such Bond Letter of Credit, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter or by-laws or (ii) any law or any material contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower or its Subsidiaries.
(ii) Each Related Document to which the Borrower is a party in connection with such Bond Letter of Credit has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower, and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity.
 
(iii) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower of any Related Document to which the Borrower is a party in connection with such Bond Letter of Credit, except for such Governmental Approvals that will have been obtained and will be in full force and effect on or prior to the date of execution and delivery of such Related Documents.
(iv) No default has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, under the Bonds related to such Bond Letter of Credit or the other Related Documents to which the Borrower is a party in connection with such Bond Letter of Credit.
Section 3.04. Reliance on Certificates.
The Lenders, the LC Banks, the Swingline Lender and the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely conclusively upon the certificates delivered from time to time by officers of Borrower as to the names, incumbency, authority and signatures of the respective Persons named therein until such time as the Administrative Agent may receive a replacement certificate, in form acceptable thereto, from an officer of the Borrower identified to the Administrative Agent as having authority to deliver such certificate, setting forth the names and true signatures of the officers and other representatives of the Borrower thereafter authorized to act on behalf of the Borrower.
Section 4.01. Representations and Warranties of the Borrower.
Each Loan Party represents and warrants as follows:
(a) Such Loan Party is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party of this Agreement are within such Loan Party's powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational action on the part of such Loan Party, and do not and will not contravene (i) the organizational documents of such Loan Party, (ii) applicable law or (iii) any contractual or legal restriction binding on or affecting the properties of such Loan Party or any Subsidiary of such Loan Party.
(c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party of this Agreement and any other Credit Document to which such Loan Party is a party, except any order that has been duly obtained and is (i) in full force and effect and (ii) sufficient for the purposes hereof.
(d) This Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability
 
thereof may be limited by equitable principles or bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
(e) (i) The consolidated balance sheet of Exelon and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010 and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows of Exelon and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, certified by Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial condition of Exelon and its Subsidiaries as at such date and the consolidated results of the operations of Exelon and its Subsidiaries for the period ended on such date in accordance with GAAP; and (ii) since December 31, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
(f) Except as disclosed in either Exelon's or the Borrower's Annual, Quarterly or Current Reports, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to the Lenders prior to the Restatement Effective Date, there is no pending or threatened action, investigation or proceeding affecting Exelon or any Subsidiary before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that may reasonably be anticipated to have a Material Adverse Effect. There is no pending or threatened action or proceeding against Exelon or any Subsidiary that purports to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of this Agreement.
(g) No proceeds of any Advance have been or will be used directly or indirectly in connection with the acquisition of in excess of 5% of any class of equity securities that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or any transaction subject to the requirements of Section 13 or 14 of the Exchange Act.
(h) No Loan Party is engaged principally , or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock. Not more than 25% of the value of the assets of Exelon and its Subsidiaries is represented by margin stock.
(i) No Loan Party is required to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(j) During the twelve consecutive month period prior to the Restatement Effective Date and prior to the date of any Extension of Credit, no steps have been taken by Exelon or any Controlled Group member or, to the knowledge of any Loan Party, by any other Person to terminate any Plan (excluding any termination arising out of the institution by or against any ComEd Entity of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding so long as such termination would not constitute an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default under Section 7.01(g)), and there has been no failure to satisfy the minimum funding standard described in Section 412(a)(2) of the Code with respect to any Single Employer Plan that would reasonably be expected to result in a lien pursuant to Section 430(k) of the Code. To the knowledge of any Loan Party, no condition exists or event or transaction has occurred with respect to any Plan which would reasonably be expected to result in the incurrence by the Borrower, Exelon or any
 
other member of the Controlled Group of any material liability (other than to make contributions, pay annual PBGC premiums or pay out benefits in the ordinary course of business), fine or penalty (excluding any condition, event or transaction arising out of the institution by or against any ComEd Entity of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding so long as such condition, event or transaction does not constitute an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default under Section 7.01(g)).
Section 5.01. Affirmative Covenants.
Each Loan Party agrees that so long as any amount payable by any Loan Party hereunder remains unpaid, any Letter of Credit remains outstanding or the Commitments have not been terminated, each Loan Party will, and, in the case of Section 5.01(a), Exelon will cause its Principal Subsidiaries to, unless the Majority Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
(a)
Keep Books; Existence; Maintenance of Properties; Compliance with Laws; Insurance; Taxes.
(i) keep proper books of record and account, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, consistently applied;
(ii) subject to Section 5.02(b), preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence;
(iii) maintain and preserve all of its properties (except such properties the failure of which to maintain or preserve would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect) which are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted;
(iv) comply in all material respects with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders (including those of any governmental authority and including with respect to environmental matters) to the extent the failure to so comply, individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect;
(v) maintain insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations, or self-insure, as the case may be, in each case in such amounts and covering such contingencies, casualties and risks as is customarily carried by or self-insured against by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which such Loan Party and (in the case of Exelon) its Principal Subsidiaries operate;
(vi) at any reasonable time and from time to time, pursuant to prior notice delivered to such Loan Party, permit any Lender, or any agent or representative of any thereof, to examine and, at such Lender's expense, make copies of, and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, such Loan Party and (in the case of Exelon) any Principal Subsidiary and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of such Loan Party and (in the case of Exelon) any Principal Subsidiary with any of their respective officers;
 
(vii) use the proceeds of the Advances for general corporate purposes (including the refinancing of its commercial paper and the making of acquisitions), but in no event for any purpose that would be contrary to Section 4.01(g) or 4.01(h); and
(viii) pay, prior to delinquency, all of its federal income taxes and other material taxes and governmental charges, except to the extent that (A) such taxes or charges are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and against which adequate reserves are being maintained or (B) failure to pay such taxes or charges would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) . Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
(i) as soon as possible, and in any event within five Business Days after the occurrence of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default with respect to such Loan Party continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of an authorized officer of such Loan Party setting forth details of such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default and the action which such Loan Party proposes to take with respect thereto;
(ii) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of Exelon, and solely to the extent the Borrower files a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Borrower, a copy of such Loan Party's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such quarter (or, if Exelon is not required to file a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, copies of an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of Exelon as of the end of such quarter and the related consolidated statement of operations of Exelon for the portion of its fiscal year ending on the last day of such quarter, in each case prepared in accordance with GAAP, subject to the absence of footnotes and to year-end adjustments), together with a certificate of an authorized officer of such Loan Party stating that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if any such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action which such Loan Party proposes to take with respect thereto;
(iii) as soon as available and in any event within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of Exelon, and, solely to the extent the Borrower files an Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, a copy of such Loan Party's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such fiscal year (or, if Exelon is not required to file an Annual Report on Form 10-K, the consolidated balance sheet of Exelon and its subsidiaries as of the last day of such fiscal year and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity (if applicable) and cash flows of Exelon for such fiscal year, certified by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other certified public accountants of recognized national standing), together with a certificate of an authorized officer of such Loan Party stating that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if any such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action which such Loan Party proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(iv) concurrently with the delivery of the quarterly and annual reports of Exelon referred to in Sections 5.01(b)(ii) and 5.01(b)(iii), a compliance certificate in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit J, duly completed and signed by the Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of Exelon;
(v) except as otherwise provided in clause (ii) or (iii) above, promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that Exelon sends to its security holders generally, and copies of all Reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q or 8-K, and registration statements and prospectuses that any Loan Party or any Subsidiary of such Loan Party files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange (except to the extent that any such registration statement or prospectus relates solely to the issuance of securities pursuant to employee purchase, benefit or dividend reinvestment plans of such Loan Party or a Subsidiary of a Loan Party);
(vi) promptly upon becoming aware of the institution of any steps by Exelon or any other Person to terminate any Plan, or the failure to make a required contribution to any Plan if such failure is sufficient to give rise to a lien under Section 430(k) of the Code, or the taking of any action with respect to a Plan which could result in the requirement that the Borrower or Exelon furnish a bond or other security to the PBGC or such Plan, or the occurrence of any event with respect to any Plan which could result in the incurrence by the Borrower, Exelon or any other member of the Controlled Group of any material liability, fine or penalty, notice thereof and a statement of an authorized officer of Exelon as to the action the Borrower, Exelon or such member of the Controlled Group proposes to take with respect thereto;
(vii) promptly upon becoming aware thereof, notice of any change in any reference Rating; and
(viii) such other information respecting the condition, operations or business, financial or otherwise, of such Loan Party or any Subsidiary of such Loan Party as any Lender, through the Administrative Agent, may from time to time reasonably request (including any information that any Lender reasonably requests in order to comply with its obligations under any "know your customer" or anti-money laundering laws or regulations).
Each Loan Party may provide information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section 5.01(b) and all other notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any communication that (i) relates to a request for an Extension of Credit, (ii) relates to the payment of any amount due under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor or any reduction of the Commitments, (iii) provides notice of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default, or (iv) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to any Extension of Credit hereunder (any non-excluded communication described above, a ""), electronically (including by posting such documents, or providing a link thereto, on Exelon's Internet website). Any document readily available on-line through the "Electronic Date Gathering Analysis and Retrieval" system (or any successor system thereof) maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission (or any succeeding Governmental Authority), shall be deemed to have been furnished to the Administrative Agent for purposes of this Section 5.01(b) when the Borrower sends to the Administrative Agent notice
Communication
 
(which may be by electronic mail) that such documents are so available. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Loan Party agrees that, to the extent requested by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, it will continue to provide "hard copies" of Communications to the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as applicable.
Each Loan Party further agrees that the Administrative Agent may make Communications available to the Lenders by posting such Communications on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").
Platform
THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE". THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT DOES NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ANY COMMUNICATION OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN ANY COMMUNICATION. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT IN CONNECTION WITH ANY COMMUNICATION OR THE PLATFORM. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT HAVE ANY LIABILITY TO ANY LOAN PARTY, ANY LENDER OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR DAMAGES, LOSSES OR EXPENSES (WHETHER IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF SUCH LOAN PARTY'S OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S TRANSMISSION OF COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH THE INTERNET, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT SUCH DAMAGES ARE FOUND IN A FINAL NON-APPEALABLE JUDGMENT BY A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION TO HAVE RESULTED FROM SUCH PERSON'S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT. WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THE PLATFORM OR THE BORROWER'S OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S TRANSMISSION OF COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH THE INTERNET.
Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) specifying that a Communication has been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such Communication to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time of the e-mail address to which the foregoing notice may be sent and (ii) that such notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
(c) . So long as any Bond Letter of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower shall remain outstanding, cause each Bond purchased with the proceeds of such Bond Letter of Credit to be subject to the Lien of an applicable Pledge Agreement or otherwise registered in the name of the applicable LC Bank, the Administrative Agent or any nominee of such LC Bank or of the Administrative Agent pending the remarketing of such Bonds pursuant to the applicable Remarketing Agreement and the other applicable Related Documents; provided that such LC Bank and the Administrative Agent agree that in the event such Bonds are remarketed, such Bonds or certificates of indebtedness shall be released and delivered to the Trustee.
Control of Purchased Bonds
 
Section 5.02. Negative Covenants.
Exelon agrees that so long as any amount payable by any Loan Party hereunder remains unpaid, any Letter of Credit remains outstanding or the Commitments have not been irrevocably terminated (except with respect to Section 5.02(a), which shall be applicable only as of the date hereof and at any time any Advance or Letter of Credit is outstanding or is to be made or issued, as applicable), Exelon will not, without the written consent of the Majority Lenders:
(a) . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, or permit Genco to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, any Lien on its property, revenues or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except as follows:
Limitation on Liens
(i) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges, levies, or fines (including such amounts arising under environmental law) on property of Exelon or Genco if the same shall not at the time be delinquent or thereafter can be paid without a material penalty, or are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings;
(ii) Liens imposed by law, such as carriers', warehousemen's, landlords' repairmen's, materialmen's and mechanics' Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business;
(iii) Liens on the capital stock of or any other equity interest in any Subsidiary (other than (A) Genco and any holding company for Genco and (B) if it is a Subsidiary, PECO and any holding company for PECO) to secure Nonrecourse Indebtedness;
(iv) Liens upon or in any property acquired in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or to secure any obligation incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property;
(v) Liens existing on property at the time of the acquisition thereof (other than any such Lien created in contemplation of such acquisition unless permitted by the preceding clause (iii));
(vi) Liens granted in connection with any financing arrangement for the purchase of nuclear fuel or the financing of pollution control facilities, limited to the fuel or facilities so purchased or acquired;
(vii) Liens arising in connection with sales or transfers of, or financing secured by, accounts receivable or related contracts, provided that any such sale, transfer or financing shall be on arms' length terms;
(viii) Liens securing Permitted Obligations and reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit issued to support Permitted Obligations (for the avoidance of doubt, the ERCOT program and any other similar agreement or arrangement, including with any Independent System Operator, are permitted under this clause (viii));
(ix) Permitted Encumbrances;
 
(x) Liens arising in connection with sale and leaseback transactions entered into by Genco or Exelon, but only to the extent that the aggregate purchase price of all assets sold by Genco and Exelon during the term of this Agreement pursuant to such sale and leaseback transactions does not exceed $1,000,000,000;
(xi) Liens arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, compensation arrangements, supplemental retirement plans arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, compensation arrangements, supplemental retirement plans or other social security or similar legislation;
(xii) Liens constituting attachment, judgment and other similar Liens arising in connection with court proceedings to the extent not constituting an Event of Default under Section 7.01(f);
(xiii) Liens created in the ordinary course of business to secure liability to insurance carriers and Liens on insurance policies and the proceeds thereof (whether accrued or not), rights or claims against an insurer or other similar asset securing insurance premium financings;
(xiv) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of business;
(xv) Liens in the nature of rights of setoff, bankers' liens, revocation, refund, chargeback, counterclaim, netting of cash amounts or similar rights as to deposit accounts, commodity accounts or securities accounts or other funds maintained with a credit or depository institution;
(xvi) Liens consisting of pledges of Bonds arising out of any Pledge Agreement and similar pledges of other industrial development, pollution control or similar revenue bonds in connection with the remarketing of such bonds;
(xvii) Liens created under Section 7.02(b) on the Cash Collateral Account and similar cash collateralization obligations relating to defaulting lenders and remedies upon default;
(xviii) Liens arising under leases or subleases, licenses or sublicenses granted to others that do not materially interfere with the ordinary course of business of any Loan Party or Genco;
(xix) Liens, resulting from any restriction on any equity interest (or project interest, interests in any energy facility (including undivided interests)) of a Person providing for a breach, termination or default under any owners, participation, shared facility, joint venture, stockholder, membership, limited liability company or partnership agreement between such Person and one or more other holders of equity interest (or project interest, interests in any energy facility (including undivided interests)) of such Person, if a security interest or other Lien is created on any such interest as a result thereof;
(xx) Liens granted on cash or cash equivalents to defease or repay Indebtedness of a Loan Party or Genco no later than 60 days after the creation of such Lien;
 
(xxi) Liens, created in connection with sales, transfers, leases, assignment or other conveyances or dispositions of assets, including (A) Liens on assets or securities granted or deemed to arise in connection with and as a result of the execution, delivery or performance of contracts to purchase or sell such assets or securities, and (B) rights of first refusal, options or other contractual rights or obligations to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of any interest therein; and
(xxii) Liens, other than those described above in this Section 5.02(a), that the aggregate amount of all obligations secured by Liens permitted by this  shall not exceed in the aggregate at any one time outstanding (A) in the case of Genco, $100,000,000, and (B) in the case of Exelon and Genco collectively, $200,000,000.
provided
clause (x)
(b) . Merge with or into or consolidate with or into, or sell, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person or permit the Borrower or (with respect to Exelon) any Principal Subsidiary to do so, except that (i) Exelon, the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to Genco or any other Principal Subsidiary, (ii) the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to Exelon, (iii) Genco may merge or consolidate with or into a Subsidiary thereof formed for the purpose of converting Genco into a corporation and (iv) Exelon, the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to any other Person, that, in each case, (A) immediately before and after giving effect thereto, no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (except in the case where any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to any other Principal Subsidiary), (B) in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which any Loan Party is a party, either (x) Exelon shall be the surviving entity or transferee (as applicable), or (y) the surviving entity or transferee (as applicable), shall be an Eligible Successor and shall have assumed all of the obligations of such Loan Party under this Agreement and the Letters of Credit pursuant to a written instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion of counsel in form and substance satisfactory to it as to the enforceability of such obligations assumed and (C) subject to clause (B) above, in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which any Principal Subsidiary is a party, a Principal Subsidiary shall be the surviving entity or transferee (as applicable).
Mergers and Consolidations; Disposition of Assets
provided
(c) . Permit the Interest Coverage Ratio as of the last day of any fiscal quarter to be less than 2.50 to 1.0.
Interest Coverage Ratio
(d) . Engage, or permit any Subsidiary to engage, in any line of business which is material to Exelon and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, other than businesses engaged in by Exelon and its Subsidiaries as of the date of the Amendment and Restatement Agreement and reasonable extensions thereof.
Continuation of Businesses
(e) . Fail at any time to own, free and clear of all Liens, 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests of Genco (or of a holding company which owns, free and clear of all Liens, 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests of Genco).
Capital Structure
 
(f) . Permit Genco or any holding company for Genco to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other contractual arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon the ability of Genco to declare or pay dividends to Exelon (or, if applicable, to its holding company).
Restrictive Agreements
(g) . So long as any Bond Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, cause or permit the Borrower to amend, modify, terminate or grant, or the permit the amendment, modification, termination or grant of, any waiver under (or consent to, or permit or suffer to occur any action or omission which results in, or is equivalent to, an amendment, modification, or grant of a waiver under) any provisions of the applicable Indenture that would directly affect the rights or obligations of the applicable LC Bank under the applicable Related Documents without the prior written consent of such LC Bank, not to be unreasonably withheld.
Amendments to Indenture
(h) . So long as any Bond Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, cause or permit the Borrower to refer to the applicable LC Bank in the Official Statement with respect to the applicable Bonds or make any changes in reference to such LC Bank in any revision, amendment or supplement without the prior consent of such LC Bank, or revise, amend or supplement such Official Statement without providing a copy of such revision, amendment or supplement, as the case may be, to such LC Bank.
Official Statement
(i) . So long as any Bond Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, cause or permit the Borrower to permit any proceeds of such Bond Letter of Credit to be used for any purpose other than the payment of the principal of, interest on, redemption price of and purchase price of the applicable Bonds.
Use of Proceeds of Bond Letter of Credit
(j) . So long as any Bond Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, cause or permit the Borrower to assign or delegate all or any portion of the rights, duties and obligations and the Borrower under the Related Documents.
Assignment of Related Documents or Lease or Sale of Facilities
Section 6.01. Guaranty.
Exelon hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally guarantees (this "") the full and prompt payment, as and when due, of all of the obligations of the Borrower to each Lender, the Administrative Agent, each LC Bank and the Swingline Lender (collectively, the "") under the Credit Documents, including, without limitation, the payment of any and all amounts payable by the Borrower under the Credit Documents, whether for principal, interest, fees, indemnities or otherwise (the ""). Exelon agrees that, in the event that the Borrower fails to timely pay when due any Guaranteed Obligations to any Credit Party, then Exelon will immediately upon notice by the Administrative Agent pay such Guaranteed Obligations in the place and stead of the Borrower in the manner set forth for such Guaranteed Obligations in the Credit Documents. Exelon agrees that this Guaranty constitutes a guaranty of payment when due and not of collection. Exelon agrees to pay all reasonable and
Guaranty
Credit Parties
Guaranteed Obligations
 
documented out of pocket costs and expenses incurred by each Credit Party in enforcing its rights hereunder.
Section 6.02. Guaranty Absolute and Unconditional.
The obligations of Exelon under this Article VI shall remain in full force and effect without regard to, and shall not be affected or impaired by any of the following, any of which may be taken without the consent of, or notice to, Exelon:
(a) any exercise or non-exercise by any Credit Party of any right or privilege under the Credit Documents;
(b) any extension (including without limitation extensions of time for payment), renewal, amendment, restructuring or restatement of, or any acceptance of late or partial payments under, or increase in the principal amount of Debt under, or other modification of terms under, the Credit Documents;
(c) any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation or similar proceeding relating to the Borrower or any Affiliate of the Borrower;
(d) the existence of any facts or circumstances that cause (or result in) any of the representations or warranties of any Loan Party under the Credit Documents to be inaccurate;
(e) any merger, consolidation, restructuring or termination of the corporate existence of the Borrower or Exelon; or
(f) the illegality, invalidity or unenforceability of any of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Section 6.03. Authorization; Other Agreements.
The Credit Parties are hereby authorized, without notice to or demand upon Exelon and without discharging or otherwise affecting the obligations of Exelon hereunder and without incurring any liability hereunder, from time to time, to do each of the following:
(a) (i) modify, amend, supplement or otherwise change, (ii) accelerate or otherwise change the time of payment or (iii) waive or otherwise consent to noncompliance with, any Guaranteed Obligation or any Credit Document;
(b) apply to the Guaranteed Obligations any sums by whomever paid or however realized to any Guaranteed Obligation in such order as provided in the Credit Documents;
(c) refund at any time any payment received by any Credit Party in respect of any Guaranteed Obligation;
(d) add, release or substitute Exelon or any makers or endorsers of any Guaranteed Obligation or any part thereof;
 
(e) otherwise deal in any manner with the Borrower and Exelon, any maker or endorser of any Guaranteed Obligation or any part thereof; and
(f) settle, release, compromise, collect or otherwise liquidate the Guaranteed Obligations.
Section 6.04. Independent Obligations.
The obligations of Exelon under this Article VI are independent of the obligations of the Borrower and, in the event of any default with respect to this Guaranty, a separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against Exelon whether or not the Borrower is joined therein or a separate action or actions are brought against the Borrower. All remedies of the Credit Parties are cumulative.
Section 6.05. Waivers.
Exelon unconditionally and irrevocably waives:
(a) demands (except as expressly provided in Section 6.01), protests or notices as the same pertain to the Borrower;
(b) any right to require the Credit Parties to proceed against the Borrower, or to exhaust any security held by the Credit Parties or to pursue any other remedy;
(c) any right to assert against any Credit Party, as a defense, counterclaim, set-off, recoupment or cross claim in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations, any defense (legal or equitable) or other claim that Exelon may now or at any time hereafter have against the Borrower or any other Person (other than payment of the Obligations in full);
(d) any defense based upon an election of remedies by any Credit Party, unless the same would excuse performance by the Borrower under the Credit Documents; and
(e) any duty of any Credit Party to advise Exelon of any information known to such Credit Party regarding the Borrower or its ability to perform under the Credit Documents.
Section 6.06. Limitation of Guaranty.
Any term or provision of this Guaranty or any other Credit Document to the contrary notwithstanding, the maximum aggregate amount for which Exelon shall be liable hereunder shall not exceed the maximum amount for which Exelon can be liable without rendering this Guaranty subject to avoidance under applicable requirements of law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer (including the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act and Section 548 of title 11 of the United States Code or any applicable provisions of comparable requirements of law).
 
Section 6.07. Termination.
This Guaranty shall constitute a continuing guaranty and shall continue in full force and effect until such time as the Guaranteed Obligations (other than contingent indemnity obligations) shall have been fully paid or otherwise extinguished under the Credit Documents; , that this Guaranty and all of this Article 6 shall automatically terminate and be of no further force and effect immediately upon the merger of the Borrower into Exelon in accordance with Section 5.02(b).
provided
Section 6.08. Reliance.
Exelon hereby assumes responsibility for keeping itself informed of the financial condition of the Borrower and any other guarantor, maker or endorser of any Guaranteed Obligation or any part thereof, and of all other circumstances bearing upon the risk of nonpayment of any Guaranteed Obligation or any part thereof that diligent inquiry would reveal, and Exelon hereby agrees that no Credit Party shall have any duty to advise Exelon of information known to it regarding such condition or any such circumstances. In the event any Credit Party, in its sole discretion, undertakes at any time or from time to time to provide any such information to Exelon, such Credit Party shall be under no obligation to (i) undertake any investigation not a part of its regular business routine, (ii) disclose any information that such Credit Party, pursuant to accepted (iii) make any future disclosures of such information or any other information to Exelon.
Section 7.01. Events of Default.
If any of the following events shall occur and be continuing (any such event an ""):
Event of Default
(a) The Borrower shall fail to pay (i) any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable, (ii) any Unreimbursed LC Disbursement within one Business Day after the same becomes due and payable or (iii) any interest on any Advance or any other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
(b) Any representation or warranty made by any Loan Party herein or by any Loan Party (or any of its officers) pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made (other than any representation or warranty or written statement made pursuant to Section 3.03; or
(c) Any Loan Party shall fail to perform or observe (i) any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(a)(vii), Section 5.01(b)(i) or Section 5.02 or (ii) any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if the failure to perform or observe such other term, covenant or agreement shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to such Loan Party by
 
the Administrative Agent (which notice shall be given by the Administrative Agent at the written request of any Lender); or
(d) Any Loan Party or any Principal Subsidiary shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt hereunder and Nonrecourse Indebtedness) when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment), prior to the stated maturity thereof, other than any acceleration of any Debt secured by equipment leases or fuel leases of any Loan Party or a Principal Subsidiary as a result of the occurrence of any event requiring a prepayment (whether or not characterized as such) thereunder, which prepayment will not result in a Material Adverse Change; or an "Event of Default", as defined in the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, as amended, modified, refinanced or restated, among Exelon , JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as agent, and the other financial institutions named therein, shall have occurred and be continuing; or
(e) Any Loan Party or any Principal Subsidiary shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against any Loan Party or any Principal Subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or any Loan Party or any Principal Subsidiary shall take any corporate action to authorize or to consent to any of the actions set forth above in this Section 7.01(e); or
(f) One or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding $100,000,000 (excluding any such judgments or orders to the extent covered by insurance, subject to any customary deductible, and under which the applicable insurance carrier has not denied coverage) shall be rendered against any Loan Party or any Principal Subsidiary and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; or
 
(g) (i) Any Reportable Event that the Majority Lenders determine in good faith is reasonably likely to result in the termination of any Single Employer Plan or in the appointment by the appropriate United States District Court of a trustee to administer a Single Employer Plan shall have occurred and be continuing 60 days after written notice to such effect shall have been given to Exelon by the Administrative Agent; (ii) any Single Employer Plan shall be terminated; (iii) a Trustee shall be appointed by an appropriate United States District Court to administer any Single Employer Plan; (iv) the PBGC shall institute proceedings to terminate any Single Employer Plan or to appoint a trustee to administer any Single Employer Plan; or (v) the Borrower, Exelon or any other member of the Controlled Group withdraws from any Multiemployer Plan; provided that on the date of any event described in clauses (i) through (v) above, the Unfunded Liabilities of the applicable Plan exceed $100,000,000; and provided, further, that no event described in this Section 7.01(g) that arises out of the institution by or against any ComEd Entity of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding shall constitute an Event of Default unless 15 days shall have elapsed after the Majority Lenders have reasonably determined, and notified Exelon in writing, that such event has had or is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (disregarding, solely for purposes of this Section 7.01(g), the proviso to clause (i) of the definition of Material Adverse Effect);
(h) any representation or warranty or written statement made by the Borrower (or any of its officers) in connection with any Related Document pursuant to Section 3.03 shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
(i) an "Event of Default" under and as defined in any Indenture executed and delivered in connection with any Bond Letter of Credit shall have occurred and be continuing; or
(j) the Guaranty shall cease to be in full force and effect (other than by operation of law upon a merger of the Borrower into Exelon in accordance with Section 5.02(b)), or Exelon shall deny or disaffirm in writing its obligations under the Guaranty.
Section 7.02. Remedies.
(a) If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, then, and in any such event, (i) the Administrative Agent (A) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances, the Swingline Lender to make Swingline Advances and the LC Banks to issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon the same shall immediately terminate; and/or (B) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable by the Borrower under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; (ii) any LC Bank may issue a notice to the Borrower for and in accordance with each outstanding Letter of Credit providing that such LC Bank's obligations under each such Letter of Credit shall terminate on the fifth Business Day following the delivery of such notice; (iii) the Administrative Agent, for the account of the applicable LC Bank, may, by notice to the Borrower, give notice of the occurrence of an Event of Default to the Trustee for each series of Bonds supported by a Bond Letter of Credit and instruct such Trustee either to accelerate such Bonds, thereby causing such
 
Bond Letter of Credit to expire thereafter, per the terms of such Bond Letter of Credit, or to effect a mandatory tender of such Bonds and (iv) the Administrative Agent, for the account of the applicable LC Bank, may exercise any other rights or remedies it may have under the Related Documents executed and delivered in connection with any Bond Letter of Credit. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 7.02 to the contrary, an Event of Default under any of (x) subsection (h) or (i) of Section 7.01, or (y) subsection (c) of Section 7.01 resulting from a breach of Section 5.01(c) or Section 5.02(g), (h), (i) or (j) or Section 5.01(a) (solely with respect to notices relating to a breach of any of the foregoing specified sections of this Agreement) shall not constitute an Event of Default for any purpose of this Agreement except for the purpose of exercising the remedies described in clauses (iii) and (iv) of this Section 7.02(a) and shall not give the Administrative Agent the right to exercise any other remedy described in this Section 7.02(a), unless the facts and circumstances underlying such Event of Default give rise to another Event of Default otherwise described in Section 7.01. If any Event of Default described in subsection (e) of Section 7.01 with respect to the Borrower shall occur and be continuing, then (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances, the obligation of the Swingline Lender to make Swingline Advances and the obligation of the LC Banks to issue Letters of Credit shall automatically immediately terminate and (B) the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable by the Borrower under this Agreement shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
(b) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no notice given or declaration made by the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section 7.02 shall affect the obligation of the LC Banks to make any payment under any Letter of Credit in accordance with the terms of such Letter of Credit; , that (i) upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, the Administrative Agent shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, upon notice to the Borrower, require the Borrower to deposit with the Administrative Agent an amount in the cash collateral account (the "") described below equal to the aggregate maximum amount available to be drawn under all Letters of Credit outstanding at such time and (ii) at any time that there shall exist a Defaulting Lender, promptly upon (and in any case within 2 Business Days after) the request of the Administrative Agent, any LC Bank or the Swingline Lender, the Borrower shall deposit with the Administrative Agent an amount in the Cash Collateral Account equal to an amount sufficient to cover all Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to Section 9.15(a)(iv) and any cash collateral provided by the Defaulting Lender). Such Cash Collateral Account shall at all times be free and clear of all rights or claims of third parties. The Cash Collateral Account shall be maintained with the Administrative Agent in the name of, and under the sole dominion and control of, the Administrative Agent, and amounts deposited in the Cash Collateral Account shall bear interest at a rate equal to the rate generally offered by Bank of America for deposits equal to the amount deposited by the Borrower in the Cash Collateral Account, for a term to be determined by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion. The Borrower hereby grants to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders and the LC Banks a Lien on, and hereby assigns to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders and the LC Banks all of its right, title and interest in, the Cash Collateral Account and all funds from time to time on deposit therein to secure its reimbursement obligations in respect of Letters of Credit. If any drawings then outstanding or thereafter made are not reimbursed in full immediately upon demand or, in the case of subsequent drawings, upon being made, then, in any
Cash Collateral Account
provided, however
Cash Collateral Account
 
such event, the Administrative Agent may, and, upon the Borrower's request, shall, apply the amounts then on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account, in such priority as the Administrative Agent shall elect, toward the payment in full of any or all of the Borrower's obligations hereunder as and when such obligations shall become due and payable. Upon payment in full, after the termination of the Letters of Credit, of all such obligations, the Administrative Agent will repay and reassign to the Borrower any cash then on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account and the Lien of the Administrative Agent on the Cash Collateral Account and the funds therein shall automatically terminate. Any cash deposited in the Cash Collateral Account provided to reduce Fronting Exposure or other cash collateralization obligations in relation to a Defaulting Lender shall be released promptly following (i) the elimination of the applicable Fronting Exposure or such other obligations giving rise thereto (including by the termination of Defaulting Lender status of the applicable Lender, in the appropriate portion of such deposited cash, or (ii) the Administrative Agent's good faith determination that there exists excess cash collateral, in the amount of such excess; , , (x) that cash collateral furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower shall not be released during the continuance of an Event of Default, and (y) the Person providing cash collateral and each relevant LC Bank or Swingline Lender, as applicable, may agree that cash collateral shall not be released but instead held to support future anticipated Fronting Exposure or such other obligations.
provided
however
Section 8.01. Appointment and Authority.
Each Lender and LC Bank hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Credit Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Except as expressly set forth in Section 8.06, the provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the LC Banks, and the Borrower and Exelon shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
Section 8.02. Rights as a Lender.
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with Exelon, the Borrower or any Subsidiary of any Loan Party or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
 
Section 8.03. Exculpatory Provisions.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Credit Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether an Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Credit Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Majority Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Credit Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Credit Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Credit Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Majority Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 9.08 and 7.02) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Unmatured Event of Default unless and until notice describing such Unmatured Event of Default is given to the Administrative Agent by Exelon, the Borrower, a Lender or an LC Bank.
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Credit Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Unmatured Event of Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Credit Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Section 8.04. Reliance by Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or
 
other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or an LC Bank, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or LC Bank unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or LC Bank prior to the making of such Advance or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for Exelon or the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Section 8.05. Delegation of Duties.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Credit Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Affiliates. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Section 8.06. Resignation of Administrative Agent.
(a) The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the LC Banks and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Majority Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States that is acceptable to the Borrower as long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Majority Lenders (and accepted by the Borrower) and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the LC Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Credit Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and each LC Bank directly, until such time as the Majority Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent
provided
 
shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Credit Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Credit Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.05 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
(b) Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as the Swingline Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (i) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the Swingline Lender, and (ii) the Swingline Lender shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Credit Documents.
Section 8.07. Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders.
Each Lender and LC Bank acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each of the Lenders and LC Banks also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Credit Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Section 8.08. No Other Duties, Etc.
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) none of the Joint Lead Arrangers and Book Runners, Co-Syndication Agents or Co-Documentation Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or an LC Bank hereunder, and (ii) none of the Joint Lead Arrangers and Book Runners, Co-Syndication Agents or Co-Documentation Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary duty to any Lender.
Section 9.01. Notices.
Notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed or sent by telecopy, as follows:
(a) if to the Borrower, Constellation Energy Group, 750 E. Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202, Attention: Jennifer Lowry, Vice President, Finance and Treasurer, Fax: 410-470-5680, with a copy to Exelon as provided in the Exelon Joinder Agreement;
 
(b) if to the Administrative Agent or Bank of America, as LC Bank, to Bank of America, N.A., Mail Code: TX1-492-14-11, Bank of America Plaza, 901 Main Street, Dallas, Texas 75202-3714, Attention: Mary H. Porter, Fax: 214-290-9674;
(c) if to an initial Lender, to it at its Domestic Lending Office specified opposite its name on Schedule I hereto, and if to any other Lender, to it at its Domestic Lending Office specified in the Lender Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender; and
(d) if to Exelon, as provided in the Exelon Joinder Agreement.
All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or sent by telecopy or electronic/soft medium to such party and received during the normal business hours of such party as provided in this Section or in accordance with the latest unrevoked direction from such party given in accordance with this Section. If such notices and communications are received after the normal business hours of such party, receipt shall be deemed to have been given upon the opening of the recipient's next Business Day.
Section 9.02. Survival of Agreement.
All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower in this Agreement and in the certificates or other instruments prepared or delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the Lenders and shall survive the making by the Lenders and the LC Bank of all Extensions of Credit regardless of any investigation made by the Lenders or on their behalf, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Outstanding Credit or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or the Commitments have not been terminated.
Section 9.03. Binding Effect.
This Agreement shall become effective on the Restatement Effective Date and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, Exelon, the Administrative Agent, each Lender, the Swingline Bank and each LC Bank and their respective successors and assigns, except that no Loan Party shall have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all of the Lenders, except as a consequence of a transaction expressly permitted under Section 5.02(b).
Section 9.04. Successors and Assigns.
(a) Whenever in this Agreement any of the parties hereto is referred to, such reference shall be deemed to include the successors and assigns of such party; and all covenants, promises and agreements by or on behalf of any party that are contained in this Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of its successors and assigns.
(b) Each Lender may assign to one or more Eligible Assignees (each of which is not a Defaulting Lender) all or a portion of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement
 
(including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Extensions of Credit at the time owing to it under such Commitment); , that (i) the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender and each LC Bank (in each case, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed and, in the case of the Borrower, the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within five Business Days after having received notice of such proposed assignment) shall be required unless such assignment is pursuant to Section 9.04(h), (ii) the consent of the LC Bank (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding), (iii) the consent of the Borrower is not required for any assignment by a Lender to its Affiliate, (iv) the consent of the Borrower is not required upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, (v) the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of such Trade Date) shall be in a minimum amount of the lesser of the amount of such Lender's then remaining Commitment and $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and Administrative Agent (which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld), that in the case of an assignment (A) of the entire remaining amount of the Lender's Commitment and the Outstanding Credits at the time owing to it or (B) to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned, (vi) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (vii) no such assignment shall be made to the Borrower, any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries or to a natural person, and (viii) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, and the assignor or assignee under each such assignment shall pay to the Administrative Agent an administrative fee of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such administrative fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an administrative questionnaire in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the assignee shall acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Advances and funded participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Advances in accordance with its Commitment Percentage, the amounts of which the Administrative Agent shall notify such assignee. Upon acceptance and recording pursuant to Section 9.04(e), from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, which effective date shall be at least five Business Days after the execution thereof unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent (the Borrower to be given reasonable notice of any shorter period), (A) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement and (B) the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party to
provided, however
provided, however
provided
however
 
this Agreement (but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.12 and 9.05 afforded to such Lender prior to its assignment as well as to any fees accrued for its account hereunder and not yet paid)). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with provision (b)(viii) of this Section shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (f) of this Section.
(c) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Assumption, the assigning Lender thereunder and the assignee thereunder shall be deemed to confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) such assigning Lender warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned thereby free and clear of any adverse claim, (ii) except as set forth in (i) above, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement, or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto or the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; (iii) such assignor and such assignee represents and warrants that it is legally authorized to enter into such Assignment and Assumption; (iv) such assignee confirms that it has received copies of this Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.03 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Assumption; (v) such assignee will independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
(d) The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in the United States a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and the principal amount of Outstanding Credits (and stated interest) owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(e) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the processing and recordation fee referred to in subsection (b) above and, if required, the written consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent to such
 
assignment, the Administrative Agent shall (i) accept such Assignment and Assumption and (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register.
(f) Each Lender may without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent sell participations to one or more banks or entities (other than the Borrower, the Borrower's Affiliates, the Borrower's Subsidiaries, a Defaulting Lender or any natural person) in all or a portion of its rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Outstanding Credits owing to it); , that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties to this Agreement for the performance of such obligations, (iii) each participating bank or other entity shall be entitled to the benefit of the cost protection provisions contained in Sections 2.12 and 9.05 and of the tax provision contained in Section 2.17 to the same extent as if it were the selling Lender (and limited to the amount that could have been claimed by the selling Lender had it continued to hold the interest of such participating bank or other entity, unless the sale of the participation is made with the Borrower's prior written consent), except that all claims made pursuant to such Sections shall be made through such selling Lender, (iv) if a participant would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender, such participant shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.17 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such participant and such participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.17(f) as though it were a Lender, and (v) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such selling Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement (other than amendments, modifications or waivers (x) decreasing any fees payable hereunder or the amount of principal of, or the rate at which interest is payable on, the Outstanding Credits, (y) extending any principal payment date or date fixed for the payment of interest on the Outstanding Credits or (z) extending the Commitments). Such participations shall not create any "security" (as the word "security" is defined under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) of the Borrower. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as a non-fiduciary agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each participating bank or other entity and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each participating bank or other entity's interest in the Outstanding Credits or other obligations under the Credit Documents (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register (including the identity of any participating bank or other entity or any information relating to a participating bank or other entity s interest in any commitments, loans, letters of credit or its other obligations under any Credit Document) to any Person except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such commitment, loan, letter of credit or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary. For the avoidance of doubt, the Administrative Agent (in its capacity as Administrative Agent) shall have no responsibility for maintaining a Participant Register.
provided, however
Participant Register
provided
 
(g) Any Lender or participant may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant any information relating to any Loan Party furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of such Loan Party; that, prior to any such disclosure, each such assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall execute an agreement whereby such assignee or participant shall agree (subject to customary exceptions) to preserve the confidentiality of any such information.
provided
(h) Any Lender may at any time pledge all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge shall release any Lender from its obligations hereunder or substitute any such Bank for such Lender as a party hereto. In order to facilitate such an assignment to a Federal Reserve Bank, the Borrower shall, at the request of the assigning Lender, duly execute and deliver to the assigning Lender a promissory note or notes evidencing the Advances made to the Borrower by the assigning Lender hereunder.
provided
Section 9.05. Expenses; Indemnity.
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one outside counsel for the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (and, to the extent necessary, one additional local counsel in any relevant jurisdiction), in connection with entering into this Agreement and the other Credit Documents and in connection with any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions thereof (whether or not the transactions hereby contemplated are consummated), and all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel, incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender, any LC Bank or any Lender in connection with the enforcement or protection of their rights in connection with the Credit Documents or in connection with the Extensions of Credit made hereunder.
(b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify each Lender against any actual loss, calculated in accordance with the next sentence that such Lender may incur as a consequence of (i) any failure by the Borrower to borrow or to Convert any Eurodollar Advance hereunder (including as a result of the Borrower's failure to fulfill any of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III) after irrevocable notice of such borrowing or Conversion has been given pursuant to Section 2.03, (ii) any payment or prepayment of a Eurodollar Advance by the Borrower made or deemed made on a date other than the last day of the Interest Period, if any, applicable thereto, including as a result of an Event of Default, (iii) any default in payment or prepayment of the principal amount of any Eurodollar Advance or interest accrued thereon, as and when due and payable (at the due date thereof, whether by scheduled maturity or otherwise), or (iv) any assignment of a Eurodollar Advance made at the request of the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18 on a date other than the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, including, in each such case, any loss or reasonable expense incurred or to be incurred by such Lender in liquidating or employing deposits from third parties, or with respect to commitments made or obligations undertaken with third parties, to effect or maintain any Advance hereunder or any part thereof as a Eurodollar Advance. Such loss shall include an amount equal to the excess, if any, as reasonably determined by such Lender, of (i) its cost of obtaining the funds for the Advance being paid, prepaid, not borrowed or Converted or assigned (assumed to be the Eurodollar Rate applicable
 
thereto) for the period from the date of such payment, prepayment, failure to borrow or Convert or assignment to the last day of the Interest Period for such Extension of Credit (or, in the case of a failure to borrow or Convert the Interest Period for such Extension of Credit that would have commenced on the date of such failure) over (ii) the amount of interest at the Eurodollar Rate for the relevant remaining interest period (as reasonably determined by such Lender) that would be realized by such Lender in re-employing the funds so paid, prepaid, not borrowed or Converted or assigned for such period or Interest Period, as the case may be, but excluding any anticipated profit. This Section 9.05(b) shall not apply with respect to Taxes other than any Taxes that represent losses, claims, damages, etc. arising from any non-Tax claim.
(c) The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender, the LC Banks, each Lender, each of their Affiliates (including, in the case of Bank of America, Banc of America Securities LLC) and the directors, officers, employees, advisors, attorneys-in-fact and agents of the foregoing (each such person being called an "") against, and to hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all actual losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses, including reasonable counsel fees and expenses, incurred by any Indemnitee arising out of (i) the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) the use of the proceeds of the Extensions of Credit, (iii) any documentary taxes, assessments or charges made by any Governmental Authority by reason of the execution and delivery of this Agreement, (iv) the utilization, storage, disposal, treatment, generation, transportation, release or ownership of any Hazardous Substance (A) at, upon, or under any property of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates or (B) by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates at any time and in any place, or (v) any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether or not any Indemnitee is a party thereto, including any of the foregoing arising from the negligence, whether sole or concurrent, on the part of any Indemnitee; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee; , that the Borrower agrees that it will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, without the prior written consent of each Indemnitee named in such settlement as set forth below (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), settle, compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment in any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification could be sought under the indemnification provisions of this Section 9.05(c) (whether or not any Indemnitee is an actual or potential party to such claim, action, suit or proceeding), if such settlement, compromise or consent includes any statement as to an admission of fault, culpability or failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnitee or involves any payment of money or other value by any Indemnitee or any injunctive relief or factual findings or stipulations binding on any Indemnitee.
Indemnitee
provided
provided, further
(d) The provisions of this Section shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the termination of the Commitments, the repayment of any of the Outstanding Credits, the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Administrative Agent or any Lender. All amounts due under this Section shall be payable on written demand therefor.
 
(e) Ten Business Days prior to the date on which any amount or amounts due under this Section are payable in accordance with a demand from a Lender or the Administrative Agent for such amount or amounts, such Lender or the Administrative Agent will cause to be delivered to the Borrower a certificate, which shall be conclusive absent manifest error, setting forth any amount or amounts that such person is entitled to receive pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section and containing an explanation in reasonable detail of the manner in which such amount or amounts shall have been determined.
(f) To the extent permitted by applicable law, none of the parties hereto shall assert, and each hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee or any other party hereto, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to actual or direct damages) arising out of, in connection with or as a result of, this Agreement or any other Credit Document, the transactions contemplated herein or therein, any Extension of Credit or the use of proceeds thereof.
Section 9.06. Right of Setoff.
If (i) an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) the request shall have been made or the consent granted by the Majority Lenders as specified by Section 7.02 to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the Extensions of Credit of the Borrower due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.02, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of any Loan Party against any of and all the obligations of such Loan Party under this Agreement, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement, and although such obligations may be unmatured; , that in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Administrative Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of Section 9.15 and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Administrative Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
provided
Section 9.07. Applicable Law.
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 9.08. Waivers; Amendment.
(a) No failure or delay of the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any power or right under this Agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of
 
any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders under this Agreement are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by subsection (b) below, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. No notice or demand on any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof in any case shall entitle such party to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances.
(b) No provision of this Agreement may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower, Exelon and the Majority Lenders (but only when notice thereof is delivered to the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 9.01) or the Administrative Agent with the consent or at the direction of the Majority Lenders; , that no such agreement shall (i) decrease the principal amount of, or extend the maturity of or any scheduled principal payment date or date for the payment of any interest on any Outstanding Credit, or waive or excuse any such payment or any part thereof, or decrease the rate of interest on any Outstanding Credit (other than pursuant to an amendment to or waiver of Section 2.08), without the prior written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (ii) increase the Commitment of any Lender, decrease the fees owing to any Lender (except pursuant to Section 9.14) or postpone the payment of any fee owing to any Lender without the prior written consent of such Lender, (iii) amend, waive or modify the provisions of Section 2.14, Section 2.15 or Section 9.04(h), the provisions of this Section or the definition of the "Majority Lenders", without the prior written consent of each Lender, (iv) release or permit the transfer of the obligations of any Loan Party hereunder (including Exelon's obligations under Article VI) without the prior written consent of each Lender, except as permitted by Section 5.02(b) or (v) change the definition of LC Committed Amount without the prior written consent of the applicable LC Bank (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld); , , that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent or the LC Bank hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent or the LC Bank, as the case may be, , that this Agreement may be amended and restated without the consent of any Lender, any LC Bank, or the Administrative Agent if, upon giving effect to such amendment and restatement, such Lender, LC Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, shall no longer be a party to this Agreement (as so amended and restated) or have any Commitment or other obligation hereunder and shall have been paid in full all amounts payable hereunder to such Lender, such LC Bank or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be; , , that (i) the Termination Date with respect to any Lender's Commitment may be extended with only the consent of the Lenders agreeing to such extension with respect to such Lender's Commitment, and (ii) any amendment to this Agreement to effectuate such extension, including the creation of separate tranches of Commitments with extended Termination Dates with different pricing and other terms, may be made with the consent of the Majority Lenders. Each Lender shall be bound by any waiver, amendment or modification authorized by this Section and any consent by any Lender pursuant to this Section shall bind any assignee of its rights and interests hereunder.
provided, however
provided further
however
provided
further
provided
further
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (and any
 
amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of any Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
Section 9.09. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.
THIS AGREEMENT (INCLUDING THE SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS HERETO), THE NOTES, THE LETTERS OF CREDIT AND THE FEE LETTER (COLLECTIVELY, THE "") REPRESENT THE ENTIRE CONTRACT AMONG THE PARTIES RELATIVE TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF AND THEREOF. ANY PREVIOUS AGREEMENT, WHETHER WRITTEN OR ORAL, AMONG THE PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF OR THEREOF IS SUPERSEDED BY THE AGREEMENT DOCUMENTS. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR THE FEE LETTERS, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, IS INTENDED TO CONFER UPON ANY PARTY OTHER THAN THE PARTIES HERETO AND THERETO ANY RIGHTS, REMEDIES, OBLIGATIONS OR LIABILITIES UNDER OR BY REASON OF THE AGREEMENT DOCUMENTS.
AGREEMENT DOCUMENTS
Section 9.10. Severability.
In the event any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this Section 9.10, if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Lenders shall be limited by Debtor Relief Laws, as determined in good faith by the Administrative Agent, any LC Bank or the Swingline Lender, as applicable, then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
Section 9.11. Execution in Counterparts; Integration.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding among the parties hereto and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject mater hereof.
 
Section 9.12. Headings.
Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and are not to affect the construction of, or to be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Section 9.13. Jurisdiction; Venue; Waiver of Jury Trial.
(a) Each Loan Party, the Administrative Agent, each LC Bank, the Swingline Lender and each Lender hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any Federal court, to the extent permitted by law, of the United States of America sitting in the borough of Manhattan in New York City or, if such Federal court is not available due to lack of jurisdiction, any New York State court sitting in the borough of Manhattan in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such Federal Court, to the extent permitted by law, or in such New York State court. Each Loan Party, the Administrative Agent, each LC Bank, the Swingline Lender and each Lender each agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Subject to the foregoing and to subsection (b) below, nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party thereto may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against any other party thereto in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(b) Each Loan Party, the Administrative Agent, each LC Bank, the Swingline Lender and each Lender each hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or thereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any New York State or Federal court. Each Loan Party, the Administrative Agent, each LC Bank, the Swingline Lender and each Lender each hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(c) EACH LOAN PARTY, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE SWINGLINE LENDER, EACH LENDER AND EACH LC BANK EACH HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHTS IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED ON THIS AGREEMENT, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER, OR IN CONNECTION WITH, THIS AGREEMENT, OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN), OR ACTIONS OF ANY LOAN PARTY. THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, THE LENDERS, THE LC BANKS AND THE LOAN PARTIES ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT.
 
Section 9.14. Confidentiality; USA PATRIOT Act.
(a) The Administrative Agent, each LC Bank, the Swingline Lender and each Lender shall hold in confidence all non-public, confidential or proprietary information, memoranda, or extracts (collectively, "") furnished to the Administrative Agent, such LC Bank, the Swingline Lender and such Lender (directly or through the Administrative Agent) by each Loan Party under this Agreement or in connection with the negotiation thereof; that the Administrative Agent, such LC Bank, the Swingline Lender and such Lender may disclose any such Information (i) (A) to its directors, officers, employees, agents, auditors, attorneys, consultants and advisors and, (B) to the extent necessary for the administration of this Agreement, to its Affiliates and the directors, officers and employees of its Affiliates, (ii) to any regulatory or supervisory authority having authority to examine the Administrative Agent, such LC Bank, the Swingline Lender, such Lender or such Lender's Affiliates, (iii) as required by any legal or governmental process or otherwise by law (with such Lender providing details, to the extent permitted by law, to such Loan Party of the Information disclosed pursuant to this clause (iii)), (iv) to any Person to which the Administrative Agent, such LC Bank, the Swingline Lender or such Lender sells or proposes to sell an assignment or a participation in its Outstanding Credits hereunder, if such other Person agrees for the benefit of such Loan Party to comply with the provisions of this Section and (v) to the extent that such Information shall be publicly available or shall have become known to the Administrative Agent, such LC Bank, the Swingline Lender or such Lender independently of any disclosure by such Loan Party under this Agreement or in connection with the negotiation thereof. The Administrative Agent, any LC Bank, the Swingline Lender and any Lender disclosing Information pursuant to clause (i) or (iv) of this Section 9.13 will take reasonable steps to ensure that the persons receiving such Information pursuant to such Sections will hold the same in confidence in accordance with this Section 9.13. To the extent possible, the Administrative Agent, any LC Bank, the Swingline Lender and any Lender disclosing Information pursuant to clause (ii) or (iii) of this Section 9.13 will take reasonable steps to ensure that the persons receiving such Information pursuant to such Sections will hold the same in confidence in accordance with this Section 9.13.
Information
provided
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Lender may disclose the provisions of this Agreement and the amounts, maturities and interest rates of its Outstanding Credits to any purchaser or potential purchaser of such Lender's interest in any Outstanding Credits. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, each party hereto shall not be limited from disclosing the US tax treatment or US tax structure of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Each Lender and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Loan Party that, pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Loan Party, which information includes the name and address of each Loan Party and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each Loan Party in accordance with the Act. Each Loan Party shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (made through the Administrative Agent), provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender (made through the Administrative Agent) reasonably requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
Act
 
Section 9.15. Defaulting Lenders.
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable law:
Adjustments.
(i) . That Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in Section 9.08(c).
Waivers and Amendments
(ii) . Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Administrative Agent for the account of that Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article VII or otherwise, and including any amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by that Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 9.06), shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent as follows: , to the payment of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder; , to the payment on a pro rata basis of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the LC Banks or Swingline Lender hereunder; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent or requested by the LC Banks or Swingline Lender, to be held in the Cash Collateral Account, in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 7.02, for future funding obligations of that Defaulting Lender of any participation in any Swingline Advance or Letter of Credit; , as the Borrower may request (so long as no Default or Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Advance in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, to be held in the Cash Collateral Account, and released in order to satisfy obligations of that Defaulting Lender to fund Advances under this Agreement; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders, the LC Banks or Swingline Lender as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender, any LC Bank or Swingline Lender against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Default or Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrower against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to that Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Advance or Unreimbursed LC Disbursement in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share and (y) such Advance or Unreimbursed LC Disbursement was made at a time when the conditions set forth in Section 3.02 were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Advances of, and Unreimbursed LC Disbursements owed to, all non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Advances of, or Unreimbursed LC Disbursements owed to, that Defaulting Lender. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post cash collateral
Reallocation of Payments
first
second
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
seventh
eighth
provided
 
pursuant to this Section 9.14(a)(ii) shall be deemed paid to and redirected by that Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
(iii) . That Defaulting Lender shall not be entitled to receive any Facility Fee in respect of such Defaulting Lender's Commitments not utilized by Advances or any Letter of Credit Fee pursuant to Section 2.05 for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and the Borrower shall not be required to pay any such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender).
Certain Fees
(iv) . During any period in which there is a Defaulting Lender, for purposes of computing the amount of the obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit or Swingline Advances pursuant to Sections 2.03 and 2.04, the Commitment Percentage of each non-Defaulting Lender shall be computed without giving effect to the Commitment of that Defaulting Lender; , that, (i) each such reallocation shall be given effect only if, at the date the applicable Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, no Unmatured Event of Default or Event of Default exists; and (ii) the aggregate obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Advances shall not exceed the positive difference, if any, of (1) the Commitment of that non-Defaulting Lender (2) the sum of the Outstanding Credits, Swingline Outstandings and LC Outstandings of that Lender.
Reallocation of Applicable Percentages to Reduce Fronting Exposure
provided
minus
(b) If the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender and the LC Banks agree in writing in their sole discretion that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Administrative Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Advances and funded and unfunded participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Advances to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Commitment Percentages (without giving effect to Section 9.14(a)(iv)), whereupon that Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
Defaulting Lender Cure.
provided
provided
further
Section 9.16. No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility.
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Credit Document), each Loan Party acknowledges and agrees that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the
 
Lenders are arm's-length commercial transactions between such Loan Party and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders, on the other hand, (B) such Loan Party has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) such Loan Party is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Credit Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent, each Arranger and each Lender each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for such Loan Party or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger or Lender has any obligation to such Loan Party or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Credit Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of such Loan Party and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger or Lender has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to such Loan Party or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, each Loan Party hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
Section 9.17. Electronic Execution of Assignments and Certain Other Documents.
The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption or in any amendment or other modification hereof (including waivers and consents) shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
 
SCHEDULE I
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
Form of Assignment and Assumption
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between the Assignor identified in item 1 below (the "") and [the][each]
Assignment and Assumption
Assignor
1
Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ""). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of the Assignees hereunder are several and not joint.]
Assignee
2
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by [the][each] Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto (collectively, the "") to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including without limitation any letters of credit or swingline loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above other than claims for indemnification or reimbursement with respect to any period prior to the Effective Date (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by the Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Credit Documents
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
ANNEX 1-2
 
 
Effective Date:                          , 20     [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
ANNEX 1-3
 
 
 
ANNEX 1-4
 
 
 
ANNEX 1
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 1-2
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
Form of Borrowing Request
Bank of America, N.A., as administrative
agent for the lenders parties to the Credit
Agreement referred to below
Mail Code: TX1-492-14-11
Bank of America Plaza
901 Main Street
Dallas, Texas 75202-3714
Fax: 214-290-9674
Attention: Mary H. Porter
Reference is hereby made to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of                          ,          (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among , a Maryland corporation (the ""), , a Pennsylvania corporation, the lenders parties thereto (together with their successors and assigns, the ""), and , as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the ""), as Swingline Lender and as LC Bank. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement and not otherwise defined herein are used herein with the meanings so defined.
Credit Agreement
CONSTELLATION ENERGY GROUP, INC.
Borrower
EXELON CORPORATION
Lenders
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
Administrative Agent
The Borrower hereby gives notice to the Administrative Agent that Borrowings under the Credit Agreement, and of the type and amount set forth below, are requested to be made on the date indicated below to the Borrower:
 
The Borrower hereby requests that the proceeds of the Borrowings described in this Borrowing Request be made available to the Borrower as follows:
[insert transmittal instructions].
The Borrower hereby (i) certifies that all conditions contained in the Credit Agreement to the making of any Borrowing requested have been met or satisfied in full and (ii) acknowledges that the delivery of this Borrowing Request shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that, on the date of the proposed Borrowing, the statements contained in Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement are true and correct.
 
 
EXHIBIT C
Form of Request for Issuance
[APPLICABLE LC BANK]
[ADDRESS OF LC BANK]
Attention: Attention: [                    ]
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (the ""), refers to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of                      ,          (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among , a Maryland corporation (the ""), , a Pennsylvania corporation, the lenders parties thereto (together with their successors and assigns, the ""), and , as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the ""), as Swingline Lender and as LC Bank, and hereby gives you notice, pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Credit Agreement, that the Borrower hereby requests the issuance of a Letter of Credit (the "") in accordance with the following terms:
Borrower
Credit Agreement
CONSTELLATION ENERGY GROUP, INC.
Borrower
EXELON CORPORATION
Lenders
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
Administrative Agent
Requested Letter of Credit
(i) the requested date of [issuance] [modification] [amendment] of the Requested Letter of Credit (which is a Business Day) is             ;
(ii) the expiration date of the Requested Letter of Credit requested hereby is             ;
1
 
(iii) the proposed stated amount of the Requested Letter of Credit is             ;
(iv) the beneficiary of the Requested Letter of Credit is: [insert name and address of beneficiary]; [and]
(v) the conditions under which a drawing may be made under the Requested Letter of Credit are as follows:                                 [.][;and]
[(vi) the Borrower hereby requests that ISP 3.14 not apply to the Requested Letter of Credit.]
2
Attached hereto as is a consent to this requested [amendment] [modification] executed by the beneficiary of the Letter of Credit.
Exhibit A
3
[Upon the [issuance] [amendment] of the Letter of Credit by the LC Bank in response to this request, the Borrower shall be deemed to have represented and warranted that the applicable conditions to an issuance of a Letter of Credit that are specified in Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement have been satisfied.]
4
 
 
 
EXHIBIT D
Form of Letter of Credit Application (Bank of America, N.A.)
EXHIBIT E
Form of Letter of Credit Application (The Royal Bank of Scotland plc)
EXHIBIT F
Form of Letter of Credit Application (Citibank, N.A.)
EXHIBIT G
Form of Letter of Credit Application (BNP Paribas)
EXHIBIT H
Form of Letter of Credit Application (The Bank of Nova Scotia)
EXHIBIT I
Form of Notice of Conversion
Bank of America, N.A., as administrative
agent for the lenders parties to the Credit
Agreement referred to below
Mail Code: TX1-492-14-11
Bank of America Plaza
901 Main Street
Dallas, Texas 75202-3714
Fax: 214-290-9674
Attention: Mary H. Porter
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, Constellation Energy Group, Inc., refers to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of                          ,          (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among , a Maryland corporation (the ""), , a Pennsylvania corporation, the lenders parties thereto (together with their successors and assigns, the ""), and , as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the ""), as Swingline Lender and as LC Bank, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement, that the undersigned hereby requests a Conversion under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Conversion (the "") as required by Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
CONSTELLATION ENERGY GROUP, INC.
Borrower
EXELON CORPORATION
Lenders
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
Administrative Agent
Proposed Conversion
 
 
 
 
(i) The Interest Period for each Advance made as part of the Proposed Conversion is             month(s).
1
The undersigned hereby represents and warrants that on the date hereof, and on the date of the Proposed Conversion, the Borrower's request for the Proposed Conversion is, and will be, made in compliance with Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT J
Form of Compliance Certificate
                    , 20    
Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of                     , 20    , among Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Exelon Corporation (""), various financial institutions and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), the undersigned, being                              of Exelon, hereby certifies on behalf of Exelon as follows:
Exelon
1. [Delivered] [Posted concurrently]* herewith are the financial statements prepared pursuant to Section 5.01(b)[(ii)/(iii)] of the Credit Agreement for the fiscal              ended                     , 20    . All such financial statements comply with the applicable requirements of the Credit Agreement.
 
2. Schedule I hereto sets forth in reasonable detail the information and calculations necessary to establish the Borrower's compliance with the provisions of Section 5.02(c) of the Credit Agreement as of the end of the fiscal period referred to in paragraph 1 above.
3. (Check one and only one:)
     No Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
     An Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and the document(s) attached hereto as Schedule II specify in detail the nature and period of existence of such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default as well as any and all actions with respect thereto taken or contemplated to be taken by the Borrower.
4. The undersigned has personally reviewed the Credit Agreement, and this certificate was based on an examination made by or under the supervision of the undersigned sufficient to assure that this certificate is accurate.
5. Capitalized terms used in this certificate and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given in the Credit Agreement.
 
 
EXHIBIT K-1
Form of U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
Reference is hereby made to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of                          , 20    , among Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Exelon Corporation, various financial institutions and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "").
Credit Agreement
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the Outstanding Credit (as well as any Note(s) evidencing such Outstanding Credit) in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code and (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code.
The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with a certificate of its non-U.S. Person status on IRS Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
Date:                     , 20[    ]
EXHIBIT K-2
Form of U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
Reference is hereby made to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of                     , 20    , among Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Exelon Corporation, various financial institutions and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "").
Credit Agreement
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, and (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code.
The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with a certificate of its non-U.S. Person status on IRS Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender in writing, and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
Date:                     , 20[    ]
EXHIBIT K-3
Form of U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
Reference is hereby made to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of                     , 20    , among Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Exelon Corporation, various financial institutions and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "").
Credit Agreement
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its direct or indirect partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such participation, (iii) with respect such participation, neither the undersigned nor any of its direct or indirect partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code and (v) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code.
The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by one of the following forms from each of its partners/members that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption: (i) an IRS Form W-8BEN or (ii) an IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by an IRS Form W-8BEN from each of such partner's/member's beneficial owners that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
Date:                     , 20[    ]
EXHIBIT K-4
Form of U.S. Tax Compliance Certificate
Reference is hereby made to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of                     , 20    , among Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Exelon Corporation, various financial institutions and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "").
Credit Agreement
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the Outstanding Credit (as well as any Note(s) evidencing such Outstanding Credit) in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its direct or indirect partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such Outstanding Credit (as well as any Note(s) evidencing such Outstanding Credit), (iii) with respect to the extension of credit pursuant to this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, neither the undersigned nor any of its direct or indirect partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code and (v) none of its direct or indirect partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code.
The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by one of the following forms from each of its partners/members that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption: (i) an IRS Form W-8BEN or (ii) an IRS Form W-8IMY accompanied by an IRS Form W-8BEN from each of such partner's/member's beneficial owners that is claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Credit Agreement and used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement.
 
Date:                     , 20[    ]

Exhibit 4.5
Execution Version
This Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement (this "") is entered into as of December 21, 2011 by and among Exelon Corporation (the ""), JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., individually and as administrative agent (the ""), and the other financial institutions signatory hereto (the "").
Amendment
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Lenders
A. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders are party to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""). Unless otherwise specified herein, capitalized terms used in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed to them by the Existing Credit Agreement.
Existing Credit Agreement
B. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders wish to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (the ""), subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
Restated Credit Agreement
C. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the undersigned Lenders are willing to enter into this Amendment on the terms and conditions set forth below.
Now, therefore, in consideration for the mutual execution hereof and other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. . The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agree that the Existing Credit Agreement shall be amended and restated on the Restatement Effective Date (as defined below), such that on the Restatement Effective Date the terms set forth in Exhibit A hereto shall replace the terms of the Existing Credit Agreement. As used in the Restated Credit Agreement, the terms "Agreement", "this Agreement", "herein", "hereinafter", "hereto", "hereof", and words of similar import shall, unless the context otherwise requires, mean, from and after the replacement of the terms of the Existing Credit Agreement by the terms of the Restated Credit Agreement, the Restated Credit Agreement.
Amendment and Restatement of Existing Credit Agreement
2. . The Borrower represents and warrants that:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment are within the Borrower's powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational action on the part of the Borrower, and do not and will not contravene (i) the organizational documents of the Borrower, (ii) applicable law or (iii) any contractual or legal restriction binding on or affecting the properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
(b) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment, except any order that has been duly obtained and is (i) in full force and effect and (ii) sufficient for the purposes hereof.
(c) This Amendment has been duly executed by the Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its
terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by equitable principles or bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
(d) Each of the representations and warranties contained in the Existing Credit Agreement is true and correct on and as of the date hereof as if made on the date hereof.
(e) No Unmatured Event of Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
3. . (x) This Amendment will become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof duly executed by the Borrower and the Majority Lenders (the ""), and (y) the Restated Credit Agreement shall become effective as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent are satisfied:
Effectiveness
Amendment Effective Date
Restatement Effective Date
(a) The acquisition by Borrower of Constellation Energy Group, Inc. pursuant to a transaction in which Constellation Energy Group, Inc. will become a wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiary of Borrower (the "") shall have occurred and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate (the statements in which shall be true), dated the Restatement Effective Date and signed by Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of the Borrower, confirming that (i) the Merger has occurred (or will occur substantially simultaneously upon the occurrence of the Restatement Effective Date), (ii) the representations of the Borrower set forth in the Restated Credit Agreement are true and correct on such date, and (iii) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default (in each case, as defined in the Restated Credit Agreement) has occurred and is continuing on such date.
Merger
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received satisfactory evidence that the representations, warranties, covenants and events of default in the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2010, among Constellation Energy Group, Inc., various financial institutions as lenders and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (as amended or amended and restated as of the Restatement Effective Date) conform substantially to the comparable provisions in the Restated Credit Agreement.
4. .
Reference to and Effect Upon the Existing Credit Agreement
(a) Except as specifically amended and supplemented hereby, the Existing Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect to the extent in effect immediately prior to this Amendment and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
(b) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower or any Lender under the Existing Credit Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Existing Credit Agreement, except as specifically set forth herein.
(c) The provisions set forth in , , and of the Existing Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Amendment .
Sections 8.04
8.09
8.10
8.13
mutatis mutandis
5. . The Borrower hereby affirms its obligation under Section 8.04 of the Existing Credit Agreement to reimburse the Administrative Agent for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, negotiation,
Costs and Expenses
 
execution and delivery of this Amendment, including but not limited to the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of attorneys for the Administrative Agent with respect thereto.
6. .
.
Governing Law
THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
7. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Amendment. Delivery of an executed counterpart hereof, or a signature page hereto, by facsimile or other electronic transmittal shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts
8. . This Amendment shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
Final Version
Exhibit A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of March 23, 2011 is among EXELON CORPORATION, the banks and other financial institutions or entities listed on the signature pages hereof, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent. The parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01 . As used in this Agreement, each of the following terms shall have the meaning set forth below (each such meaning to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the term defined):
Certain Defined Terms
"", when used in reference to any Advance or Borrowing, refers to such Advance, or the Advances comprising such Borrowing, bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means, for any period, Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities for such period Interest Expense for such period the portion (but not less than zero) of Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities for such period attributable to ComEd Entities or any consolidated Subsidiary that has no Debt other than Nonrecourse Indebtedness.
Adjusted Funds From Operations
plus
minus
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Advance for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
" means JPMCB in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders pursuant to , and not in its individual capacity as a Lender, and any successor Administrative Agent appointed pursuant to .
"Administrative Agent
Article VII
Section 7.06
"" means an administrative questionnaire, substantially in the form supplied by the Administrative Agent, completed by a Lender and furnished to the Administrative Agent in connection with this Agreement.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower hereunder. An Advance may be a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Advance, each of which shall be a "" of Advance.
Advance
Type
"" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person.
Affiliate
"" means the Administrative Agent, the Co-Documentation Agents and the Syndication Agent; and "" means any one of the foregoing.
Agents
Agent
"" means the total of the Commitment Amounts of all Lenders as in effect from time to time.
Aggregate Commitment Amount
"" means a fluctuating rate of interest equal to the highest of (a) the Prime Rate, (b) the federal funds effective rate from time to time plus 0.5% and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding
Alternate Base Rate
 
Business Day) plus 1%, that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters Page LIBOR01 (or on any successor or substitute page of such page) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day. Any change in the ABR due to a change in the Prime Rate, the federal funds effective rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the federal funds effective rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate, respectively.
provided
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
""  see .
Applicable Margin
Schedule I
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Approved Fund
Section 8.07(a)
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of .
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit A
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Administrative Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment, that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest in, or the acquisition of any ownership interest in or the exercise of control over, such Person or its parent company by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof, , , that such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
Bankruptcy Event
provided
provided
further
"" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in .
Base Rate Advance
Section 2.06(a)
"" shall mean Baltimore Gas and Electric Company.
BGE
"" shall mean RF Holdco, BGE and any of their Subsidiaries.
BGE Entity
"" means Exelon Corporation or any Eligible Successor thereof.
Borrower
"" means a group of Advances of the same Type made, continued or converted on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their Pro Rata Shares and, in the case of a Borrowing of Eurodollar Advances, having the same Interest Period.
Borrowing
"" means a day on which banks are not required or authorized to close in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Chicago, Illinois or New York, New York, and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Advance, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule, regulation or treaty after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender
Change in Law
 
(or, for purposes of , by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement; that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
Section 2.12(b)
provided
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" means each of BNP Paribas, Citibank, N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in its capacity as a co-documentation agent hereunder.
Co-Documentation Agent
"" means each of Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc in its capacity as a co-syndication agent hereunder.
Co-Syndication Agent
"" means Commonwealth Edison Company, an Illinois corporation, or any successor thereof.
ComEd
"" means Debt of any ComEd Entity for which neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary (other than another ComEd Entity) has any liability, contingent or otherwise.
ComEd Debt
"" means ComEd and each of its Subsidiaries.
ComEd Entity
"" means, for any Lender, such Lender's commitment to make Advances and participate in Facility LCs hereunder.
Commitment
"" means, for any Lender at any time, the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on attached hereto or, if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Assumption, set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Administrative Agent pursuant to , as such amount may be reduced pursuant to or increased pursuant to .
Commitment Amount
Schedule II
Section 8.07(c)
Section 2.04
Section 2.18
"" shall mean the obligations of the Borrower or Genco under (i) any commodity swap agreement, commodity future agreement, commodity option agreement, commodity cap agreement, commodity floor agreement, commodity collar agreement, commodity hedge agreement, commodity forward contract or derivative transaction and any put, call or other agreement, arrangement or transaction, including natural gas, power, electric energy, emissions forward contracts, renewable energy credits, or any combination of any such arrangements, agreements and/or transactions, employed in the ordinary course of the Borrower or Genco's business, including the Borrower or Genco's energy marketing, trading and asset optimization business, or (ii) any commodity swap agreement, commodity future agreement, commodity option agreement, commodity cap agreement, commodity floor agreement, commodity collar agreement, commodity hedge agreement, commodity forward contract or derivative transaction and any put, call or other agreement or arrangement, or combination thereof (including an agreement or arrangement to hedge foreign exchange risks) in respect of commodities entered into by the Borrower or Genco pursuant to asset optimization and risk management policies and procedures adopted pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of Directors of the Borrower or Genco. The term
Commodity Trading Obligations
 
"commodities" shall include electric energy and/or capacity, transmission rights, coal, petroleum, natural gas liquids, natural gas, fuel transportation rights, emissions allowances, weather derivatives and related products and by-products and ancillary services.
"" shall have the meaning specified in .
Communication
Section 5.01(b)
"" means Constellation Energy Group, Inc.
Constellation
"" shall mean Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, LLC, a Maryland limited liability company.
Constellation Nuclear
"" shall mean Constellation Nuclear, LLC, CE Nuclear, LLC and Constellation Nuclear and its Subsidiaries.
Constellation Nuclear Entity
"" means each person (as defined in Section 3(9) of ERISA) that, together with the Borrower, would be deemed to be a "single employer" within the meaning of Section 414(b) or 414(c) of the Code.
Controlled Group
"" means the making of an Advance or the issuance or modification of a Facility LC hereunder.
Credit Extension
"" means (i) indebtedness for borrowed money, (ii) obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business), (iv) obligations as lessee under leases that shall have been or are required to be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (v) obligations (contingent or otherwise) under reimbursement or similar agreements with respect to the issuance of letters of credit (other than obligations in respect of documentary letters of credit opened to provide for the payment of goods or services purchased in the ordinary course of business) and (vi) obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to in  through  above.
Debt
clauses (i)
(v)
""  see .
Declining Lender
Section 2.17.2
"" means any Lender, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, that has (a) failed to fund any portion of its Advances or participations in Facility LCs within three Business Days after the date required to be funded by it hereunder, unless the subject of a good faith dispute of which such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent, (b) notified the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, an LC Issuer or any Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under this Agreement, (c) failed, within three Business Days after written request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligations to fund prospective Advances and participations in then outstanding Facility LCs; that any such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender under this clause (c) upon receipt of such confirmation by the Administrative Agent, (d) otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three Business Days after the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute of which such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent, or (e) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event, unless, in the case of any Lender referred to in this clause (e), the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each LC Issuer shall determine in their sole and absolute discretion that such Lender intends and has all
Defaulting Lender
provided
 
approvals to continue to perform its obligations as a Lender hereunder in accordance with all of the terms of this Agreement.
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
"" means the date on which all conditions precedent set forth in have been satisfied.
Effective Date
Section 3.01
"" means (i) a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof; (ii) a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country that is a member of the OECD or has concluded special lending arrangements with the International Monetary Fund associated with its "General Arrangements to Borrow", or a political subdivision of any such country, that such bank is acting through a branch or agency located in the United States; (iii) a finance company, insurance company or other financial institution or fund (whether a corporation, partnership or other entity) engaged generally in making, purchasing or otherwise investing in commercial loans in the ordinary course of its business; (iv) the central bank of any country that is a member of the OECD; (v) any Lender; or (vi) any Affiliate (excluding any individual) of a Lender; that, unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in their sole discretion, (A) any Person described in ,  or  above shall also (x) have outstanding unsecured long-term debt that is rated BBB- or better by S&P and Baa3 or better by Moody's (or an equivalent rating by another nationally recognized credit rating agency of similar standing if either such corporation is no longer in the business of rating unsecured indebtedness of entities engaged in such businesses) and (y) have combined capital and surplus (as established in its most recent report of condition to its primary regulator) of not less than $100,000,000 (or its equivalent in foreign currency), and (B) any Person described in , ,  or  above shall, on the date on which it is to become a Lender hereunder, be entitled to receive payments hereunder without deduction or withholding of any United States Federal income taxes (as contemplated by ). In no event shall an Eligible Assignee include the Borrower or an Affiliate thereof.
Eligible Assignee
provided
provided
clause (i)
(ii)
(iii)
clause (ii)
(iii)
(iv), (v)
(vi)
Section 2.14(e)
"" means a Person that (i) is a corporation, limited liability company or business trust duly incorporated or organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of one of the states of the United States or the District of Columbia, (ii) as a result of a contemplated acquisition, consolidation or merger, will succeed to all or substantially all of the consolidated business and assets of the Borrower, (iii) upon giving effect to such contemplated acquisition, consolidation or merger, will have all or substantially all of its consolidated business and assets conducted and located in the United States and (iv) is acceptable to the Majority Lenders as a credit matter.
Eligible Successor
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
"" means any Advance that bears interest as provided in .
Eurodollar Advance
Section 2.06(b)
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
""  see .
Event of Default
Section 6.01
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
"" means, with respect to any payment made by the Borrower under this Agreement, any of the following Taxes imposed on or with respect to a Recipient: (a) income or franchise Taxes imposed on (or measured by) net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or by any other jurisdiction as a result of a present or former connection between such Lender and such jurisdiction (other than any such connection arising as a result of such Lender having executed, delivered or become a party to, performed its obligations or received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to, or enforced, this Agreement) or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits Taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar Taxes imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any U.S. Federal withholding Taxes resulting from any law in effect (including FATCA) on the date such Non-U.S. Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Non-U.S. Lender's failure to comply with , except to the extent that such Non-U.S. Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding Taxes pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 2.18(b)
Section 2.14(f)
Section 2.14(a)
"" means the credit facility evidenced by that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of October 26, 2006, by and among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto, and JPMCB, as administrative agent, as amended.
Existing Credit Facility
"" means each letter of credit issued by an LC Issuer and specified by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent on the Effective Date.
Existing Letter of Credit
""  see .
Exiting Lender
Section 2.17.7
""  see .
Facility Fee Rate
Schedule I
"" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to and any Existing Letter of Credit.
Facility LC
Section 2.16
""  see .
Facility LC Application
Section 2.16.3
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement, and any regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Rate
"" means, Fitch, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Fitch
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by Fitch and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement (it
Fitch Rating
 
being understood that if the Borrower does not have any outstanding debt securities of the type described above but has an indicative rating from Fitch for debt securities of such type, then such indicative rating shall be used for determining the "Fitch Rating").
"" - see .
GAAP
Section 1.03
"" means Exelon Generation Company, LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company, and its successors.
Genco
"" means the government of the United States of America or any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" - see .
Granting Bank
Section 8.07(i)
"" mean, with respect to any Person, the obligations of such Person under any interest rate or currency swap agreement, interest rate or currency future agreement, interest rate collar agreement, interest rate or currency hedge agreement, and any put, call or other agreement or arrangement designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates.
Hedging Obligations
"" means (a) Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by the Borrower under this Agreement, and (b) Other Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower, the ratio of Adjusted Funds From Operations for such period to Net Interest Expense for such period.
Interest Coverage Ratio
"" means, for any period, "interest expense" as shown on a consolidated statement of income of the Borrower for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
"" means, for any period, "Interest Expense to Affiliates" as shown on a consolidated statement of income of the Borrower for such period.
Interest Expense to Affiliates
"" means, for each Eurodollar Advance, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Advance is made or is converted from a Base Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be 14 days or 1, 2, 3 or 6 months, as the Borrower may select in accordance with or ; that:
Interest Period
Section 2.02
2.09
provided
(i) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after the latest scheduled Termination Date;
(ii) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Advances made as part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
(iii) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to
 
occur on the next succeeding Business Day, unless such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, in which case the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day;
(iv) if there is no day in the appropriate calendar month at the end of such Interest Period numerically corresponding to the first day of such Interest Period, then such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such appropriate calendar month; and
(v) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period for an Advance if, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate principal amount of all Eurodollar Advances that have Interest Periods ending after the next scheduled Termination Date for any Exiting Lender plus the stated amount of all Facility LCs that have scheduled expiry dates after such Termination Date would exceed the remainder of (a) the Aggregate Commitment minus (b) the aggregate amount of the Commitments that are scheduled to terminate on such Termination Date.
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc. in its capacity as a Joint Active Lead Arranger.
Joint Active Lead Arranger
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association.
JPMCB
""  see .
LC Fee Rate
Schedule I
"" means each of JPMCB, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, BNP Paribas, Citibank, N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Union Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and any other Lender that, with the consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, agrees to issue Facility LCs hereunder, in each case in its capacity as the issuer of the applicable Facility LCs.
LC Issuer
"" means, at any time, the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate undrawn stated amount under all Facility LCs outstanding at such time plus (ii) the aggregate unpaid amount at such time of all Reimbursement Obligations. The LC Obligations of any Lender at any time shall be its Pro Rata Share of the total LC Obligations at such time.
LC Obligations
""  see .
LC Payment Date
Section 2.16.5
"" means the percentage equal to one (1) divided by the total number of LC Issuers.
LC Pro Rata Share
"" means $200,000,000.
LC Sublimit
"" means each of the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereof and each Eligible Assignee that shall become a party hereto pursuant to .
Lenders
Section 8.07
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Advance for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Reuters Page LIBOR01 (or on any successor or substitute page of such page providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page, as determined by the Administrative
LIBO Rate
 
Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurodollar Advance for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
"" means any lien (statutory or other), mortgage, pledge, security interest or other charge or encumbrance, or any other type of preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest (including the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale, capitalized lease or other title retention agreement).
Lien
"" means Lenders having Pro Rata Shares of more than 50% ( that, for purposes of this definition, neither the Borrower nor any of its Affiliates, if a Lender, shall be included in calculating the amount of any Lender's Pro Rata Share or the amount of the Commitment Amounts or Outstanding Credit Extensions, as applicable, required to constitute more than 50% of the Pro Rata Shares).
Majority Lenders
provided
"" and "" each means, relative to any occurrence, fact or circumstances of whatsoever nature (including any determination in any litigation, arbitration or governmental investigation or proceeding), (i) any materially adverse change in, or materially adverse effect on, the financial condition, operations, assets or business of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (excluding ComEd Entities), that, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the assertion against the Borrower or any Subsidiary of liability for any obligation arising under ERISA for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary bore joint and several liability with any ComEd Entity, or the payment by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of any such obligation, shall not be considered in determining whether a Material Adverse Change or Material Adverse Effect has occurred); or (ii) any materially adverse effect on the validity or enforceability against the Borrower of this Agreement.
Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Effect
provided
"" and ""  see .
Modify
Modification
Section 2.16.1
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by Moody's and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement (it being understood that if the Borrower does not have any outstanding debt securities of the type described above but has an indicative rating from Moody's for debt securities of such type, then such indicative rating shall be used for determining the "Moody's Rating").
Moody's Rating
"" means a Plan that meets the definition in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, for any period, "Net Cash Flows provided by Operating Activities" as shown on a consolidated statement of cash flows of the Borrower for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP, any "Changes in assets and liabilities" (as shown on such statement of cash flows) taken into account in determining such Net Cash Flows provided by Operating Activities.
Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities
excluding
 
"" means, for any period, the total of (a) Interest Expense for such period (b) Interest Expense to Affiliates for such period to the extent included in the amount referred to in  and related to (i) interest payments on Debt obligations that are subordinated to the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement or (ii) interest on Nonrecourse Indebtedness (c) interest on ComEd Debt for such period.
Net Interest Expense
minus
clause (a)
minus
"" means any Debt that finances the acquisition, development, ownership or operation of an asset in respect of which the Person to which such Debt is owed has no recourse whatsoever to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates other than:
Nonrecourse Indebtedness
(i) recourse to the named obligor with respect to such Debt (the "") for amounts limited to the cash flow or net cash flow (other than historic cash flow) from the asset;
Debtor
(ii) recourse to the Debtor for the purpose only of enabling amounts to be claimed in respect of such Debt in an enforcement of any security interest or lien given by the Debtor over the asset or the income, cash flow or other proceeds deriving from the asset (or given by any shareholder or the like in the Debtor over its shares or like interest in the capital of the Debtor) to secure the Debt, but only if the extent of the recourse to the Debtor is limited solely to the amount of any recoveries made on any such enforcement; and
(iii) recourse to the Debtor generally or indirectly to any Affiliate of the Debtor, under any form of assurance, undertaking or support, which recourse is limited to a claim for damages (other than liquidated damages and damages required to be calculated in a specified way) for a breach of an obligation (other than a payment obligation or an obligation to comply or to procure compliance by another with any financial ratios or other tests of financial condition) by the Person against which such recourse is available.
"" means a Lender that is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Lender
""  see .
Notice of Borrowing
Section 2.02(a)
"" means the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
OECD
"" means, with respect to any Recipient, Taxes imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Taxes (other than a connection arising from such Recipient having executed, delivered, enforced, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, or engaged in any other transaction pursuant to this Agreement or sold or assigned an interest in this Agreement.
Other Connection Taxes
"" means any present or future stamp, court, documentary, intangible, recording, filing or similar excise or property Taxes that arise from any payment made under, from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, or from the registration, receipt or perfection of a security interest under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement, except any such Taxes that are Other Connection Taxes imposed with respect to an assignment (other than an assignment under ).
Other Taxes
Section 8.07(g)
 
"" means the sum of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Advances plus all LC Obligations.
Outstanding Credit Extensions
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Participant
Section 8.07(e)
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Participant Register
Section 8.07(e)
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
"" means PECO Energy Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, or any Eligible Successor thereof.
PECO
"" means (a) any right reserved to or vested in any municipality or other governmental or public authority (i) by the terms of any right, power, franchise, grant (including, without limitation, any financial assistance grant), license or permit granted or issued to the Borrower or Genco or (ii) to purchase or recapture or to designate a purchaser of any property of the Borrower or Genco; (b) any easement, restriction, exception or reservation in any property and/or right of way of the Borrower or Genco for the purposes of roads, pipelines, transmission lines, distribution lines, transportation lines or removal of minerals or timber or for other like purposes or for the joint or common use of real property, rights of way, facilities and/or equipment, and defects, irregularities and deficiencies in title of any property and/or rights of way, which, in each case described in this , whether considered individually or collectively with all other items described in this , do not materially impair the use of the relevant property and/or rights of way for the purposes for which such property and/or rights of way are held by the Borrower or Genco; (c) rights reserved to or vested in any municipality or other Governmental Authority to control or regulate any property of the Borrower or Genco or to use such property in a manner that does not materially impair the use of such property for the purposes for which it is held by the Borrower or Genco; and (d) obligations or duties of the Borrower or Genco to any municipality or other Governmental Authority that arise out of any franchise, grant, license or permit and that affect any property of the Borrower or Genco (including, without limitation, obligations with respect to nuclear waste disposal and related arrangements).
Permitted Encumbrance
clause (b)
clause (b)
"" mean (1) Hedging Obligations of the Borrower or Genco arising in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with the the Borrower or Genco's established risk management policies that are designed to protect the Borrower or Genco against, among other things, fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates and which in the case of agreements relating to interest rates shall have a notional amount no greater than the payments due with respect to the applicable obligations being hedged and (2) Commodity Trading Obligations of the Borrower or Genco.
Permitted Obligations
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
"" means an employee pension benefit plan that is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code as to which the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group has or may have any liability (including contingent liability).
Plan
"" means a rate per annum equal to the prime rate of interest announced by JPMCB as its prime rate (which is not necessarily the lowest rate charged to any customer) in effect at its principal office in New York City.
Prime Rate
 
"" means each Subsidiary, other than PECO and its Subsidiaries, any BGE Entity, any ComEd Entity and, except as provided in the proviso below, any Constellation Nuclear Entity, (i) the consolidated assets of which, as of the date of any determination thereof, are at least equal to 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower (after giving effect to the acquisition of Constellation by the Borrower) or (ii) the consolidated earnings before taxes of which are at least equal to 10% of the consolidated earnings before taxes of the Borrower for the most recently completed fiscal year (and, in the case of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, after giving pro forma effect to the acquisition of Constellation by the Borrower); that, regardless of whether Constellation Nuclear or any of its Subsidiaries is a consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower, (A) the Constellation Nuclear Entities shall be subject to being tested as Principal Subsidiaries under clauses (i) and (ii) above only at any time that the Borrower shall own, directly or indirectly through one or more other Subsidiaries, 51% or more of the outstanding capital stock (or other comparable interest) of Constellation Nuclear having ordinary voting power (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock, or comparable interests, of any other class or classes of such corporation or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), and (B) the assets and earnings of Constellation Nuclear and its Subsidiaries shall be included in the computation of the 10% tests set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) above, as applicable, only to the extent of the Borrower's proportional equity interest in Constellation Nuclear.
Principal Subsidiary
provided
"" means, with respect to a Lender, the percentage that such Lender's Commitment Amount is of the Aggregate Commitment Amount (disregarding, in the case of when a Defaulting Lender exists, any Defaulting Lender's Commitment Amount); that if, pursuant to , an Exiting Lender is not paid in full on, or retains participations in Facility LCs after, its scheduled Termination Date, so long as the Termination Date for all other Lenders has not occurred, such Exiting Lender's "Pro Rata Share" shall be (a) for purposes of determining the Majority Lenders, an amount equal to the principal amount of its outstanding Advances plus the amount of its participations in Facility LCs; (b) for purposes of determining (i) the amount of such Exiting Lender's share of a requested Borrowing or (ii) such Exiting Lender's participation in any Facility LC that is issued, or in any increase in the stated amount of any Facility LC that occurs, after such Exiting Lender's Termination Date, zero; and (c) for purposes of determining the allocation of any payment by the Borrower among the Lenders, the percentage that the amount (if any) of principal, Reimbursement Obligations, interest and fees or other amounts of the type being paid that is owed by the Borrower to such Exiting Lender hereunder is of the aggregate amount of principal, Reimbursement Obligations, interest, fees or other amounts of the type being paid that is owed by the Borrower to all Lenders (including all Exiting Lenders) hereunder. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Pro Rata Shares shall be determined based upon the Commitment Amounts most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments and to any Lender's status as a Defaulting Lender at the time of determination.
Pro Rata Share
Section 2.19
provided
Section 2.17.7
then
"" means, as applicable, (a) the Administrative Agent, (b) any Lender and (c) any LC Issuer.
Recipient
""  see .
Register
Section 8.07(c)
"" means the outstanding obligations of the Borrower under to reimburse an LC Issuer for amounts paid by such LC Issuer in respect of any drawing under a Facility LC.
Reimbursement Obligations
Section 2.16
"" means a reportable event as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and regulations issued under such Section with respect to a Single Employer Plan, excluding such events as to which the requirement of Section 4043(a) of ERISA that the PBGC be notified within 30 days after the occurrence of such event is waived under PBGC Regulation Section 4043, provided that a failure to meet the minimum funding standard of Section 412 of the Code and Section 302 of ERISA shall be a
Reportable Event
 
Reportable Event regardless of the issuance of any such waivers in accordance with either Section 4043(a) of ERISA or Section 412(c) of the Code.
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Advances and its LC Obligations at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" shall mean RF HoldCo LLC, a Delaware limited liability company.
RF Holdco
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC business, and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by S&P and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement (it being understood that if the Borrower does not have any outstanding debt securities of the type described above but has an indicative rating from S&P for debt securities of such type, then such indicative rating shall be used for determining the "S&P Rating").
S&P Rating
"" means a Plan other than a Multiemployer Plan, maintained by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group for employees of the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group.
Single Employer Plan
""  see .
SPC
Section 8.07(i)
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Federal Reserve Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject, with respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Federal Reserve Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Advances shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or unincorporated entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock (or comparable interest) having ordinary voting power (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock, or comparable interests, of any other class or classes of such corporation or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person (whether directly or through one or more other Subsidiaries). Unless otherwise indicated, each reference to a "Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means any present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means, for any Lender, the earlier of (i) the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date (subject to extension as provided in ) or (ii) the date on which such Lender's Commitment is terminated or reduced to zero in accordance with the terms hereof.
Termination Date
Section 2.17
 
""  see the definition of Advance.
Type
"" means, (i) in the case of any Single Employer Plan, the amount (if any) by which the present value of all vested nonforfeitable benefits under such Plan exceeds the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such benefits, all determined as of the then most recent actuarial valuation date for such Plan using the actuarial assumptions set forth in the most recent actuarial valuation report for such Single Employer Plan, and (ii) in the case of any Multiemployer Plan, the Withdrawal Liability that would be incurred by the Controlled Group if all members of the Controlled Group completely withdrew from such Multiemployer Plan.
Unfunded Liabilities
"" means any event which (if it continues uncured) will, with lapse of time or notice or both, become an Event of Default.
Unmatured Event of Default
"" means a "United States" person within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
U.S. Tax Certificate
Section 2.14(f)(ii)(D)(2)
"" shall have the meaning specified in Part 1 of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
"" means the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Withholding Agent
SECTION 1.02 . In this Agreement, (a) in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each means "to but excluding"; (b) the term "including" means "including without limitation"; and (c) unless otherwise indicated, (i) any reference to an , , or means an Article or Section hereof or an Exhibit or Schedule hereto; (ii) any reference to a time of day means such time in Chicago, Illinois; (iii) any reference to a law or regulation means such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time and includes all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, replacing or interpreting such law or regulation; and (d) any reference to an agreement, instrument or other document means such agreement, instrument or other document as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Other Interpretive Provisions
Article
Section
Exhibit
Schedule
SECTION 1.03 .
Accounting Principles
(a) As used in this Agreement, "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, applied on a basis consistent with the principles used in preparing the Borrower's audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 and for the fiscal year then ended, as such principles may be revised as a result of changes in GAAP implemented by the Borrower subsequent to such date. In this Agreement, except to the extent, if any, otherwise provided herein, all accounting and financial terms shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms by GAAP, and all computations and determinations as to accounting and financial matters shall be made in accordance with GAAP. In the event that the financial statements generally prepared by the Borrower reflect a change in GAAP that affects the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth herein (as contemplated by ), the compliance certificate delivered pursuant to accompanying such financial statements shall include information in reasonable detail reconciling such financial statements which reflect such change in GAAP to financial information that does not reflect such change to the extent relevant to the calculations set forth in such compliance certificate.
GAAP
Section 1.03(b)
Section 5.01(b)(iv)
 
(b) If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth herein and the Borrower or the Majority Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Majority Lenders); that, until so amended, such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein.
provided
(c) For purposes of any calculation or determination which is to be made on a consolidated basis (including compliance with ), such calculation or determination shall exclude any assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that are included in Borrower's financial statements from "variable interest entities" as a result of the application of FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, as updated through FIN No. 46-R and as modified by FIN No. 94.
Section 5.02(c)
SECTION 1.04 . For purposes of determining the stated amount of any Facility LC, (a) if a Facility LC provides for one or more automatic increases in the amount available to be drawn thereunder (as a result of lapse of time, the occurrence of certain events or otherwise), then the stated amount thereof shall be the maximum amount available to be drawn thereunder during the remaining term thereof assuming all such increases take effect, regardless of whether such maximum amount is then available; and (b) if a Facility LC has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of International Standby Practices 1998, then the stated amount of such Facility LC shall be deemed to be the amount remaining available to be drawn thereunder.
Letter of Credit Amounts
SECTION 2.01 . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to (a) make Advances to the Borrower and (b) participate in Facility LCs issued upon the request of the Borrower, in each case from time to time during the period from the date hereof to such Lender's Termination Date, in an aggregate amount not to exceed such Lender's Commitment Amount as in effect from time to time; that (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances by such Lender to the Borrower shall not exceed such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Advances; (ii) such Lender's participation in Facility LCs shall not exceed such Lender's Pro Rata Share of all LC Obligations; and (iii) the Outstanding Credit Extensions shall not at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitment Amount. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the other provisions hereof, the Borrower may from time to time borrow, prepay pursuant to and reborrow hereunder prior to the latest Termination Date.
Commitments
provided
Section 2.10
SECTION 2.02 .
Procedures for Advances; Limitations on Borrowings
(a) The Borrower may request Advances by giving notice (a "") to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly advise each Lender of its receipt thereof) not later than 10:00 A.M. on the third Business Day prior to the date of any proposed borrowing of Eurodollar Advances and on the date of any proposed borrowing of Base Rate Advances. Each Notice of Borrowing shall be sent by facsimile and shall be in substantially the form of , specifying therein (i) the requested date of borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the Type of Advances requested, (iii) the aggregate principal amount of the requested Advances and (iv) in the case of a borrowing of Eurodollar Advances, the initial Interest Period therefor. Each Lender shall, before 12:00 noon on the date of such borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the
Notice of Borrowing
Exhibit B
 
Administrative Agent at its address referred to in , in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of the requested borrowing. After the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Administrative Agent's aforesaid address.
Section 8.02
Article III
(b) Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. If a Notice of Borrowing requests Eurodollar Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure of the Borrower to fulfill on or before the requested borrowing date the applicable conditions set forth in , including any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the requested Advance to be made by such Lender.
Article III
(c) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the date of any requested borrowing (or, in the case of a borrowing of Base Rate Advances to be made on the same Business Day as the Administrative Agent's receipt of the relevant Notice of Borrowing, prior to 10:30 A.M. on such Business Day) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Administrative Agent on the requested borrowing date in accordance with and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Administrative Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances made in connection with such borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
Section 2.02(a)
(d) The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it on any borrowing date shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on such date, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make any Advance to be made by such other Lender.
(e) Each Borrowing of Base Rate Advances shall at all times be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000; and each Borrowing of Eurodollar Advances shall at all times be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Borrower may not have more than 20 Borrowings of Eurodollar Advances outstanding at any time.
SECTION 2.03 . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, a facility fee at a rate per annum equal to the Facility Fee Rate on such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Aggregate Commitment Amount (or, after such Lender's Termination Date, of the principal amount of all Outstanding Credit Extensions) for the period from the Effective Date to such Lender's Termination Date (or, if later, the date on which all obligations of the Borrower to such Lender hereunder have been paid in full and such Lender has no participation interests in any LC Obligations), payable on the last day of each March, June, September and December and on the such Lenders' Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand).
Facility Fee
SECTION 2.04 .
Reduction of Commitment Amounts
 
(a) The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least two Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, to ratably reduce the respective Commitment Amounts of the Lenders in accordance with their Pro Rata Shares; that the Aggregate Commitment Amount may not be reduced to an amount that is less than the Outstanding Credit Extensions; and , , that each partial reduction of the Commitment Amounts shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof. Any reduction of the Commitment Amounts pursuant to this shall be permanent, except as expressly provided otherwise herein.
provided
provided
further
Section 2.04
(b) The Borrower may at any time, upon at least two Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Commitments so long as the Borrower concurrently pays all of its outstanding obligations hereunder.
SECTION 2.05 . The Borrower shall repay all outstanding Advances made by each Lender, and all other obligations of the Borrower to such Lender hereunder, on such Lender's Termination Date.
Repayment of Advances
SECTION 2.06 . The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, as follows:
Interest on Advances
(a) At all times such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate in effect from time to time the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, on the date such Base Rate Advance is converted to a Eurodollar Advance or paid in full and on such Lender's Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand).
plus
(b) At all times such Advance is a Eurodollar Advance, a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Adjusted LIBO Rate for each applicable Interest Period the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable on the last day of each Interest Period for such Eurodollar Advance (and, if any Interest Period for such Advance is six months, on the day that is three months after the first day of such Interest Period) or, if earlier, on the date such Eurodollar Advance is converted to a Base Rate Advance or paid in full and on such Lender's Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand).
plus
SECTION 2.07 . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Advance:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Majority Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Advances (or its Advances) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any notice that requests the conversion of any Advance to, or continuation of any Advance as, a Eurodollar Advance shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Notice of Borrowing requests a Eurodollar Advance, such Advance shall be made as a Base Rate Advance.
 
SECTION 2.08 .
Interest Rate Determination
(a) The Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of each applicable interest rate determined by the Administrative Agent for purposes of or .
Section 2.06(a)
(b)
(b) If, with respect to any Borrowing of Eurodollar Advances, the Majority Lenders notify the Administrative Agent that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Majority Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Advances for such Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon
(i) each Eurodollar Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor (unless prepaid or converted to a Base Rate Advance prior to such day), convert into a Base Rate Advance, and
(ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, continue or convert into Eurodollar Advances shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
SECTION 2.09 .
Continuation and Conversion of Advances
(a) The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 A.M. on the third Business Day prior to the date of any proposed continuation of or conversion into Eurodollar Advances, and on the date of any proposed conversion into Base Rate Advances, and subject to the provisions of and , continue Eurodollar Advances for a new Interest Period or convert a Borrowing of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type; that any continuation of Eurodollar Advances or conversion of Eurodollar Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Advances, unless, in the case of such a conversion, the Borrower shall also reimburse the Lenders pursuant to on the date of such conversion. Each such notice of a continuation or conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such continuation or conversion, (ii) the Advances to be continued or converted, and (iii) in the case of continuation of or conversion into Eurodollar Advances, the duration of the Interest Period for such Advances.
Sections 2.08
2.12
provided
Section 8.04(b)
(b) If the Borrower fails to select the Type of any Advance or the duration of any Interest Period for any Borrowing of Eurodollar Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in and , the Administrative Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, convert into Base Rate Advances.
Section 1.01
Section 2.09(a)
SECTION 2.10 . The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 A.M. at least three Business Days prior to any prepayment of Eurodollar Advances or on the date of any prepayment of Base Rate Advances, in each case stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given, the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amounts of the Advances made as part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; that (i) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount not less than $10,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000 in the case of any prepayment of Eurodollar Advances and $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000 in the case of any prepayment of
Prepayments
provided
 
Base Rate Advances ( that if the aggregate amount of Advances made pursuant to as a result of a drawing under a Facility LC is not $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000, then the next prepayment of Base Rate Advances shall be in an aggregate amount that causes the aggregate principal amount of all Base Rate Advances to be either (A) zero or (B) $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000) and (ii) in the case of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders pursuant to on the date of such prepayment.
provided
Section 2.16
Section 8.04(b)
SECTION 2.11 . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or any LC Issuer;
(ii) impose on any Lender or any LC Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Advances made by such Lender or any Facility LC or participation therein; or
(iii) subject any Recipient to any Taxes (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes and (B) Other Connection Taxes on gross or net income, profits or revenue (including value-added or similar Taxes)) on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender or such other Recipient of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Advance (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Advance) or to increase the cost to such Lender, any LC Issuer or such other Recipient of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Facility LC or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender, such LC Issuer or such other Recipient hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender, such LC Issuer or such other Recipient, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender, such LC Issuer or other Recipient for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or any LC Issuer determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such LC Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such LC Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Advances made by, or participations in Facility LCs held by, such Lender, or the Facility LCs issued by such LC Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or such LC Issuer or such Lender's or such LC Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such LC Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such LC Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such LC Issuer such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such LC Issuer or such Lender's or such LC Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender or an LC Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such LC Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or such LC Issuer the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
 
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or any LC Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such LC Issuer's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an LC Issuer pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 90 days prior to the date that such Lender or such LC Issuer notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or such LC Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor; , , that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 90-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof, that such demand is made within 90 days after the implementation of such retroactive Change in Law.
provided
provided
further
provided
SECTION 2.12 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Advances hereunder, (i) the obligation of such Lender to make, continue or convert Advances into Eurodollar Advances shall be suspended (subject to the following paragraph of this ) until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and (ii) all Eurodollar Advances of such Lender then outstanding shall, on the last day of the then applicable Interest Period (or such earlier date as such Lender shall designate upon not less than five Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent), be automatically converted into Base Rate Advances.
Illegality
Section 2.12
If the obligation of any Lender to make, continue or convert into Eurodollar Advances has been suspended pursuant to the preceding paragraph, then, unless and until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, (i) all Advances that would otherwise be made by such Lender as Eurodollar Advances shall instead be made as Base Rate Advances and (ii) to the extent that Eurodollar Advances of such Lender have been converted into Base Rate Advances pursuant to the preceding paragraph or made instead as Base Rate Advances pursuant to the preceding , all payments and prepayments of principal that would have otherwise been applied to such Eurodollar Advances of such Lender shall be applied instead to such Base Rate Advances of such Lender.
clause (i)
SECTION 2.13 .
Payments and Computations
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder not later than 10:00 A.M. on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Administrative Agent at its address referred to in in same day funds without setoff, counterclaim or other deduction. The Administrative Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal, interest, facility fees and letter of credit fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to , , or ) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Assumption and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to , from the effective date specified in such Assignment and Assumption, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments hereunder in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Assumption shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
Section 8.02
Section 2.02(b)
2.11
2.14
8.04(b)
Section 8.07(d)
 
(b) The Borrower hereby authorizes each Lender, if and to the extent any payment owed to such Lender by the Borrower is not made when due hereunder, to charge from time to time against any of the Borrower's accounts with such Lender any amount so due. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower promptly after any such set-off and application made by such Lender, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.
provided
(c) All computations of interest based on the Prime Rate shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all other computations of interest and of fees shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or fees are payable. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(d) Whenever any payment hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of any interest or fees, as the case may be; that if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of a Eurodollar Advance to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
(e) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due by the Borrower to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent on such date and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent that the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder that is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) shall (to the fullest extent permitted by law) bear interest from the date when due until paid in full at a rate per annum equal at all times to the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time plus 2%, payable upon demand.
SECTION 2.14 .
Taxes
(a) Each payment by or on account of the Borrower under this Agreement shall be made without withholding for any Taxes, unless such withholding is required by any law. If any Withholding Agent determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it is so required to withhold Taxes, then such Withholding Agent may so withhold and shall timely pay the full amount of withheld Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. If such Taxes are Indemnified Taxes, then the amount payable by the Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that, net of such withholding (including such withholding applicable to additional amounts payable under this Section), the applicable Recipient receives the amount it would have received had no such withholding been made.
(b) The Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
 
(c) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(d) The Borrower shall indemnify each Recipient for any Indemnified Taxes that are paid or payable by such Recipient in connection with this Agreement (including amounts paid or payable under this ) and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The indemnity under this shall be paid within 10 days after the Recipient delivers to the Borrower a certificate stating the amount of any Indemnified Taxes so paid or payable by such Recipient and describing in reasonable detail the basis for the indemnification claim. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so paid or payable absent manifest error. Such Recipient shall deliver a copy of such certificate to the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.14(d)
Section 2.14(d)
(e) Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent for any Taxes (but, in the case of any Indemnified Taxes, only to the extent that the Borrower has not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so) attributable to such Lender that are paid or payable by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Agreement and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority, as a result of the failure by such Lender to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to ; that no Lender shall be liable for the portion of any interest, expenses or penalties that are found by a final non-appealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The indemnity under this shall be paid within 10 days after the Administrative Agent delivers to the applicable Lender a certificate stating the amount of Taxes so paid or payable by the Administrative Agent and, if requested by the applicable Lender, a copy of any notice of claim of the relevant Governmental Authority at the time the Administrative Agent makes a written demand for indemnification. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so paid or payable absent manifest error.
Section 2.14(f)
provided
Section 2.14(e)
(f) Status of Lenders.
(i) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from, or reduction of, any applicable withholding Tax with respect to any payments under this Agreement shall promptly deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without, or at a reduced rate of, withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall promptly deliver such other documentation prescribed by law or at the time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to any withholding (including backup withholding) or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in through and below) shall not be required if the Lender notifies the Borrower and the Administrative
Section 2.14(f)(ii)(A)
(E) 
Section 2.14(f)(iii)
 
Agent that the Lender is waiving its rights under this to indemnification of the withholding Taxes to which the requested documentation relates. Upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, any Lender shall update any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this . If any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect with respect to a Lender, such Lender shall promptly (and in any event within 10 days after such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy) notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in writing of such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy and update the form or certification if it is legally eligible to do so.
Section 2.14
Section 2.14(f)
(ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Borrower is a U.S. Person, any Lender with respect to the Borrower shall, if it is legally eligible to do so, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies reasonably requested by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a party hereto, duly completed and executed copies of whichever of the following is applicable:
(A) in the case of a Lender that is a U.S. Person, IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. Federal backup withholding tax;
(B) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (1) with respect to payments of interest under this Agreement, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "interest" article of such tax treaty and (2) with respect to any other applicable payments under this Agreement, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of such tax treaty;
(C) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender for whom payments under this Agreement constitute income that is effectively connected with such Lender's conduct of a trade or business in the United States, IRS Form W-8ECI;
(D) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code both (1) IRS Form W-8BEN and (2) a certificate substantially in the appropriate form of Exhibit E (a "U.S. Tax Certificate") to the effect that such Lender is not (a) a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (b) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code (c) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (d) conducting a trade or business in the United States with which the relevant interest payments are effectively connected;
(E) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender that is not the beneficial owner of payments made under this Agreement (including a partnership or a participating Lender) (1) an IRS Form W-8IMY on behalf of itself and (2) the relevant forms prescribed in clauses (A), (B), (C), (D) and (F) of this paragraph (f)(ii) that would be required of each such beneficial owner or partner of such partnership if such beneficial owner or partner were a Lender; , , that if the Non-U.S. Lender is a partnership providing an IRS Form W-8IMY on behalf of itself and one or more of its partners are claiming the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the
provided
however
 
Code, such Non-U.S. Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Certificate on behalf of such partners; or
(F) any other form prescribed by law as a basis for claiming exemption from, or a reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax together with such supplementary documentation necessary to enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the amount of Tax (if any) required by law to be withheld.
(iii) If a payment made to a Lender under this Agreement would be subject to U.S. Federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Withholding Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Withholding Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Withholding Agent as may be necessary for the Withholding Agent to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has or has not complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this , "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
Section 2.14(f)(iii)
(g) If any party determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified pursuant to this (including additional amounts paid pursuant to this ), it shall pay to the indemnifying party an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made under this Section with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund, including additional amounts paid pursuant to this Section 2.14), net of all out-of-pocket expenses (including any Taxes payable on account of such refund) of such indemnified party and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund). Such indemnifying party, upon the request of such indemnified party, shall repay to such indemnified party the amount paid to such indemnified party pursuant to the previous sentence (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) in the event such indemnified party is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this , in no event will any indemnified party be required to pay any amount to any indemnifying party pursuant to this if such payment would place such indemnified party in a less favorable position (on a net after-Tax basis) than such indemnified party would have been in if the indemnification payments or additional amounts giving rise to such refund had never been paid. This shall not be construed to require any indemnified party to make available its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes which it deems confidential) to the indemnifying party or any other Person.
Section 2.14
Section 2.14
Section 2.14(g)
Section 2.14(g)
Section 2.14(g)
(h) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower or any Lender hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower and the Lenders contained in this shall survive the payment in full of principal and interest hereunder and the termination of this Agreement; that no Lender shall be entitled to demand any payment from the Borrower under this more than one year following the payment to or for the account of such Lender of all other amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder to such Lender and the termination of such Lender's Commitment; , that the foregoing proviso shall in no way limit the right of any Lender to demand or receive any payment under this to the extent that such payment relates to the retroactive application of any Taxes or Other Taxes if such demand is made within one year after the implementation of such Taxes or Other Taxes.
Section 2.14
provided
Section 2.14
provided, further
Section 2.14
 
(i) For purposes of and , the term "Lender" includes any LC Issuer.
Section 2.14(e)
(f)
SECTION 2.15 If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances made by it to the Borrower or its participation interest in any Facility LC issued for the account of the Borrower (other than pursuant to , , , or ) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Advances to the Borrower and LC Obligations obtained by all Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Advances and/or LC Obligations as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them, that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc.
Section 2.02(b)
2.11
2.14
2.17.7
8.04(b)
provided
Section 2.15
SECTION 2.16 .
Facility LCs
SECTION 2.16.1 . Each LC Issuer agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement (including the limitations set forth in , and ), upon the request of the Borrower, to issue standby and direct pay letters of credit and to extend, increase or otherwise modify Facility LCs ("", and each such action a "") for the Borrower, from time to time from the date of this Agreement to the Termination Date; that (a) the aggregate amount of LC Obligations owed by the Borrower to any LC Issuer shall not exceed the amount of such LC Issuer's LC Pro Rata Share of the LC Sublimit (or such higher amount agreed upon in writing between the Borrower and such LC Issuer); (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Obligations shall not exceed the LC Sublimit; (c) the stated amount of all Facility LCs that have scheduled expiry dates after the next scheduled Termination Date for any Lender plus the aggregate principal amount of all Eurodollar Advances that have Interest Periods ending after such Termination Date shall not exceed the remainder of (i) the Aggregate Commitment Amount minus (ii) the aggregate amount of the Commitments that are scheduled to terminate on such Termination Date; and (d) no LC Issuer shall be obligated to issue or Modify any Facility LC if (i) any order, judgment or decree of any court or other governmental authority shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain such LC Issuer from issuing such Facility LC or (ii) any applicable law, or any request or directive from any governmental authority having jurisdiction over such LC Issuer, shall prohibit, or request or direct that such LC Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or of such Facility LC in particular. Facility LCs may be issued for any proper corporate purpose. Each Facility LC shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Facility LC (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension and provided that such Facility LC may contain customary "evergreen" provisions pursuant to which the expiry date is automatically extended by a specific time period unless such LC Issuer gives notice to the beneficiary of such Facility LC at least a specified time period prior to the expiry date then in effect) and (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the next scheduled Termination Date in effect at the time of issuance, renewal or extension; that with the prior consent of the Administrative Agent and the applicable LC Issuer, such LC Issuer may issue or extend a Facility LC with a later expiration date so long as on or before the date
Issuance
Sections 2.01
2.19
3.02
Modify
Modification
provided
provided
 
which is seven Business Days prior to the last scheduled Termination Date, whether or not an Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall deposit cash collateral with the Administrative Agent in accordance with in respect of all outstanding Facility LCs with an expiration date later than five Business Days prior to the last scheduled Termination Date. Any Facility LC theretofore issued which contains an "evergreen" or similar automatic extension feature shall, unless the Borrower shall have notified the Administrative Agent and the applicable LC Issuer in writing not less than thirty (30) days (or such shorter period as may be acceptable to the applicable LC Issuer in its sole discretion or such longer period as may be required by the beneficiary of such Facility LC) prior to the date that such Facility LC is scheduled to be automatically extended that the Borrower desires that such Facility LC not be so extended, be automatically extended in accordance with the terms thereof subject to the applicable LC Issuer's right not to so extend if the conditions precedent to the issuance of such Facility LC would not be satisfied. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of an approaching Termination Date, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three (3) Business Days after all Facility LCs have expired and all related LC Obligations are satisfied in full. By their execution of this Agreement, the parties hereto agree that on the Effective Date (without any further action by any Person), each Existing Letter of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued under this Agreement and the rights and obligations of the issuer and the account party thereunder shall be subject to the terms hereof.
Section 2.16.12
SECTION 2.16.2 . Upon the issuance or Modification by an LC Issuer of a Facility LC in accordance with this (or, in the case of the Existing Letters of Credit, on the Effective Date), the applicable LC Issuer shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto, to have unconditionally and irrevocably sold to each Lender, and each Lender shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto, to have unconditionally and irrevocably purchased from such LC Issuer, a participation in such Facility LC (and each Modification thereof) and the related LC Obligations in proportion to its Pro Rata Share.
Participations
Section 2.16
SECTION 2.16.3 . Subject to , the Borrower shall give the applicable LC Issuer notice prior to 11:00 A.M. at least five Business Days (or such lesser time as the applicable LC Issuer may agree) prior to the proposed date of issuance or Modification of each Facility LC, specifying the beneficiary, the proposed date of issuance (or Modification) and the expiry date of such Facility LC, and describing the proposed terms of such Facility LC and the nature of the transactions proposed to be supported thereby. Upon receipt of such notice, the applicable LC Issuer shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender, of the contents thereof and of the amount of such Lender's participation in such proposed Facility LC. The issuance or Modification by an LC Issuer of any Facility LC shall, in addition to the applicable conditions precedent set forth in (the satisfaction of which an LC Issuer shall have no duty to ascertain; that no LC Issuer shall issue a Facility LC if such LC Issuer shall have received written notice (which has not been rescinded) from the Administrative Agent or any Lender that any applicable condition precedent to the issuance or modification of such Facility LC has not been satisfied and, in fact, such condition precedent is not satisfied at the requested time of issuance), be subject to the conditions precedent that such Facility LC shall be satisfactory to the applicable LC Issuer and that the Borrower shall have executed and delivered such application agreement and/or such other instruments and agreements relating to such Facility LC as such LC Issuer shall have reasonably requested (each a ""). In the event of any conflict (including any additional terms requiring the posting of collateral) between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any Facility LC Application, the terms of this Agreement shall control.
Notice
Section 2.16.1
Article III
provided
Facility LC Application
 
SECTION 2.16.4 . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, a letter of credit fee at a rate per annum equal to the LC Fee Rate on such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the undrawn stated amount of all Facility LCs for the period from the Effective Date to such Lender's Termination Date (or, if later, the date on which such Lender has no participation interests in the Facility LCs), payable in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December and on the applicable Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The Borrower also agrees to pay to the applicable LC Issuer for its own account (a) fronting fees in amounts and at times agreed upon between such LC Issuer and the Borrower and (b) documentary and processing charges in connection with the issuance or Modification of and draws under Facility LCs in accordance with such LC Issuer's standard schedule for such charges as in effect from time to time.
LC Fees
SECTION 2.16.5 . Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Facility LC of any demand for payment under such Facility LC, the applicable LC Issuer shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and each Lender as to the amount to be paid by such LC Issuer as a result of such demand and the proposed payment date (the ""). The responsibility of an LC Issuer to the Borrower and each Lender shall be only to determine that the documents (including each demand for payment) delivered under each Facility LC in connection with such presentment shall be in conformity in all material respects with such Facility LC. Each Lender shall be unconditionally and irrevocably liable, without regard to the occurrence of the Termination Date (but subject to and ), the occurrence of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default or any condition precedent whatsoever, to reimburse such LC Issuer on demand for (i) such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the amount of each payment made by such LC Issuer under any Facility LC to the extent such amount is not reimbursed by the Borrower pursuant to , plus (ii) interest on the foregoing amount to be reimbursed by such Lender, for each day from the date of such LC Issuer's demand for such reimbursement (or, if such demand is made after 11:00 A.M. on such day, from the next succeeding Business Day) to the date on which such Lender pays the amount to be reimbursed by it, at a rate of interest per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate for the first three days and, thereafter, at the Alternate Base Rate.
Administration; Reimbursement by Lenders
LC Payment Date
Sections 2.17
2.16.12
Section 2.16.6
SECTION 2.16.6 . The Borrower shall be irrevocably and unconditionally obligated to reimburse the applicable LC Issuer on or before the applicable LC Payment Date for any amount to be paid by such LC Issuer upon any drawing under any Facility LC issued for the account of the Borrower, without presentment, demand, protest or other formalities of any kind; that neither the Borrower nor any Lender shall hereby be precluded from asserting any claim for direct (but not consequential) damages suffered by the Borrower or such Lender to the extent, but only to the extent, caused by (i) the willful misconduct or gross negligence (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) of the applicable LC Issuer in determining whether a request presented under any Facility LC complied with the terms of such Facility LC or (ii) the applicable LC Issuer's failure to pay under any Facility LC after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Facility LC. If the Borrower fails to fully reimburse the applicable LC Issuer by 11:00 A.M. on an LC Payment Date, such LC Issuer shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent. Upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such LC Payment Date, the amount of the unpaid Reimbursement Obligations and such Lender's Pro Rata Share thereof. In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested Base Rate Advances to be disbursed on the applicable LC Payment Date in an amount equal to the unpaid Reimbursements Obligations, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified for Base Rate Advances in , but subject to the conditions set forth in . All
Reimbursement by Borrower
provided
Section 2.02(e)
Article III
 
Reimbursement Obligations that are not fully refinanced by the making of Base Rate Advances because the Borrower cannot satisfy the conditions set forth in or for any other reason shall bear interest, payable on demand, for each day until paid at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin plus 2%. The applicable LC Issuer will pay to each Lender ratably in accordance with its Pro Rata Share all amounts received by it from the Borrower for application in payment, in whole or in part, of the Reimbursement Obligations in respect of any Facility LC issued by such LC Issuer, but only to the extent such Lender has made payment to such LC Issuer in respect of such Facility LC pursuant to .
Article III
Section 2.16.5
SECTION 2.16.7 . The Borrower's obligations under this shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment which the Borrower may have against any LC Issuer, any Lender or any beneficiary of a Facility LC. The Borrower agrees with the LC Issuers and the Lenders that the LC Issuers and the Lenders shall not be responsible for, and the Reimbursement Obligations in respect of any Facility LC shall not be affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents or of any endorsements thereon, even if such documents should in fact prove to be in any or all respects invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or among the Borrower, any of its Affiliates, the beneficiary of any Facility LC or any financing institution or other party to whom any Facility LC may be transferred or any claims or defenses whatsoever of the Borrower or of any of its Affiliates against the beneficiary of any Facility LC or any such transferee. No LC Issuer shall be liable for any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however transmitted, in connection with any Facility LC. The Borrower agrees that any action taken or omitted by any LC Issuer or any Lender under or in connection with any Facility LC and the related drafts and documents, if done without gross negligence or willful misconduct (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), shall be binding upon the Borrower and shall not put the applicable LC Issuer or any Lender under any liability to the Borrower. Nothing in this is intended to limit the right of the Borrower to make a claim against an LC Issuer for damages as contemplated by the proviso to the first sentence of .
Obligations Absolute
Section 2.16
Section 2.16.7
Section 2.16.6
SECTION 2.16.8 . Each LC Issuer shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any Facility LC, draft, writing, resolution, notice, consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, facsimile, message, statement, order or other document believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons, and upon advice and statements of legal counsel, independent accountants and other experts selected by such LC Issuer. An LC Issuer shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Agreement unless it shall first have received such advice or concurrence of the Majority Lenders as it reasonably deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its reasonable satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. Notwithstanding any other provision of this , an LC Issuer shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement in accordance with a request of the Majority Lenders, and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon the Lenders and any future holder of a participation in any Facility LC.
Actions of LC Issuers
Section 2.16
SECTION 2.16.9 . The Borrower hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Lender, each LC Issuer and the Administrative Agent, and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees, from and against any claim, damage, loss, liability, cost or expense which such Lender, such LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent may incur (or which may be claimed against such Lender, such LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent by any Person
Indemnification
 
whatsoever) by reason of or in connection with the issuance, execution and delivery or transfer of or payment or failure to pay under any Facility LC or any actual or proposed use of any Facility LC, including any claim, damage, loss liability, cost or expense which the applicable LC Issuer may incur by reason of or in connection with (i) the failure of any other Lender to fulfill or comply with its obligations to such LC Issuer hereunder (but nothing herein contained shall affect any right the Borrower may have against any Defaulting Lender) or (ii) by reason of or on account of such LC Issuer issuing any Facility LC that specifies that the term "Beneficiary" included therein includes any successor by operation of law of the named Beneficiary, but which Facility LC does not require that any drawing by any such successor Beneficiary be accompanied by a copy of a legal document, satisfactory to such LC Issuer, evidencing the appointment of such successor Beneficiary; that the Borrower shall not be required to indemnify any Lender, any LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent for any claim, damage, loss, liability, cost or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, caused by (a) the willful misconduct or gross negligence (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) of an LC Issuer in determining whether a request presented under any Facility LC complied with the terms of such Facility LC or (b) an LC Issuer's failure to pay under any Facility LC after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Facility LC. Nothing in this is intended to limit the obligations of the Borrower under any other provision of this Agreement.
provided
Section 2.16.9
SECTION 2.16.10 . Each Lender shall, ratably in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, indemnify the applicable LC Issuer, its Affiliates and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower) against any cost, expense (including reasonable counsel fees and disbursements), claim, demand, action, loss or liability (except such as result from such indemnitees' gross negligence or willful misconduct (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) or such LC Issuer's failure to pay under any Facility LC after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of the Facility LC) that such indemnitees may suffer or incur in connection with this or any action taken or omitted by such indemnitees hereunder.
Lenders' Indemnification
Section 2.16
SECTION 2.16.11 . In its capacity as a Lender, each LC Issuer shall have the same rights and obligations as any other Lender.
Rights as a Lender
SECTION 2.16.12 . In the event the Borrower is required to deposit cash collateral pursuant to the provisions of this Article II, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to 105% of the LC Obligations as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon. Such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the LC Obligations. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the applicable LC Issuer for amounts paid by such LC Issuer in respect of a Facility LC for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Obligations. For the avoidance of doubt, no Lender shall have any reimbursement obligations under in respect of any LC Obligations with respect to any Facility LC for which cash collateral has been deposited in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Cash Collateralization
Section 2.16.5
SECTION 2.17 .
Extensions of Scheduled Termination Date
 
SECTION 2.17.1 . The Borrower may, not more than two (2) times, by notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify each Lender) not earlier than 60 and not later than 30 days prior to any anniversary of the Effective Date (each, an ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's scheduled Termination Date then in effect (the "") for an additional year from the Existing Termination Date, it being understood that the Termination Date shall not be later than the seventh anniversary of the Effective Date as a result of any such request.
Extension Requests
Anniversary Date
Existing Termination Date
SECTION 2.17.2 . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not later than the date (the "") that is 20 days prior to the applicable Anniversary Date, notify the Administrative Agent whether such Lender agrees to the requested extension of the Termination Date (each Lender that determines not to so extend its Termination Date, a ""). Any Lender that does not advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Notice Date that it has agreed to extend the Existing Termination Date shall be deemed to be a Declining Lender.
Lender Elections to Extend
Notice Date
Declining Lender
SECTION 2.17.3 . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date 15 days prior to the applicable Anniversary Date.
Notification by Administrative Agent
SECTION 2.17.4 . The Borrower shall have the right, at any time after a Lender has become a Declining Lender, to require such Declining Lender to assign and delegate its rights and obligations hereunder to one or more existing Lenders or other financial institutions that have agreed to assume such rights and obligations (each an "") pursuant to, and in accordance with the requirements of, .
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 8.07
SECTION 2.17.5 . If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders (including Additional Commitment Lenders) that have agreed so to extend their Termination Date (each an "") shall be more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitment Amount in effect immediately prior to the Anniversary Date, then, effective as of such date, the Termination Date of each Extending Lender (including any applicable Additional Commitment Lender) shall be extended to the date falling one year after the Existing Termination Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Termination Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day).
Minimum Extension Requirement
Extending Lender
SECTION 2.17.6 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, no extension of the Termination Date pursuant to this Section shall be effective unless:
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
(a) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such extension and after giving effect thereto;
(b) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the date of such extension and after giving effect thereto, as though made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date); and
(c) subject to , each LC Issuer shall have consented to such extension (which consent shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld).
Section 8.07(h)
SECTION 2.17.7 . If the scheduled Termination Date for one or more Lenders (each an "") occurs on a date
Effect of Termination Date for some but not all Lenders
Exiting Lender
 
that is not the Termination Date for all Lenders, then on such Termination Date (a) the Borrower shall repay all amounts payable to the Exiting Lenders in accordance with , (b) the Commitments of the Exiting Lenders, and the participations of the Exiting Lenders in Facility LCs, shall terminate and (c) the Pro Rata Shares and the participations in Facility LCs of the remaining Lenders shall be redetermined pro rata in accordance with their respective Commitment Amounts after giving effect to the terminations described in  above; that if an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists on such Termination Date and either (i) the Borrower fails to pay in full all amounts payable to the Exiting Lenders or (ii) the Majority Lenders so request, the participations of the Exiting Lenders in Facility LCs shall not terminate and no redetermination of the participations of the Lenders in Facility LCs shall be made until the earlier of the first Business Day after such Termination Date on which no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists and the date specified by the Majority Lenders in a notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly advise each Lender). Nothing in the proviso clause to the preceding sentence shall affect the termination of the Commitment of an Exiting Lender on the relevant Termination Date (except with respect to such Exiting Lender's participation in Facility LCs) or any Exiting Lender's right to demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to such Exiting Lender by the Borrower hereunder and to pursue remedies with respect thereto. Further, if at any time after the relevant Termination Date (x) the Borrower has not paid all principal, interest and facility fees payable to one or more Exiting Lenders hereunder and (y) the Lenders (excluding any Exiting Lender) elect to make Advances, then all proceeds of such Advances shall be applied to pay the amounts owed by the Borrower to such Exiting Lenders (ratably based upon the amounts owed to such Lenders) until such principal, interest and facility fees have been paid in full.
Section 2.05
clause (b)
provided
then
SECTION 2.18 . The Borrower may, from time to time, by means of a letter delivered to the Administrative Agent substantially in the form of , request that the Aggregate Commitment Amount be increased by an aggregate amount (for all such increases) not exceeding $250,000,000 by (a) increasing the Commitment Amount of one or more Lenders that have agreed to such increase (in their sole discretion) and/or (b) adding one or more commercial banks or other Persons as a party hereto (each an "") with a Commitment Amount in an amount agreed to by any such Additional Lender; that (i) any increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount shall be in an aggregate amount of $25,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000; (ii) no Additional Lender shall be added as a party hereto without the written consent of the Administrative Agent and the LC Issuers (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld) or if an Event of Default or an Unmatured Event of Default exists; (iii) subject to , no such increase shall be effective without the written consent of the LC Issuers (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed); and (iv) the Borrower may not request an increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount unless the Borrower has delivered to the Administrative Agent (with a copy for each Lender) a certificate (A) stating that any applicable governmental authority has approved such increase, (B) attaching evidence, reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, of each such approval and (C) stating that the representations and warranties contained in are correct on and as of the date of such certificate as though made on and as of such date and that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists on such date. Any increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount pursuant to this shall be effective three Business Days after the date on which the Administrative Agent has received and accepted the applicable increase letter in the form of to (in the case of an increase in the Commitment Amount of an existing Lender) or assumption letter in the form of to (in the case of the addition of a commercial bank or other Person as a new Lender). The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount pursuant to this and of the Commitment Amount and Pro Rata Share of each Lender after giving effect thereto. The Borrower shall prepay any Advances outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent
Optional Increase in Commitments
Exhibit C
Additional Lender
provided
Section 8.07(h)
Section 4.01
Section 2.18
Annex 1
Exhibit C
Annex 2
Exhibit C
Section 2.18
Section 8.04(b)
 
necessary to keep the outstanding Advances ratable among the Lenders in accordance with any revised Pro Rata Shares arising from any non-ratable increase in the Commitment Amounts under this ; that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Administrative Agent, the Borrower and each increasing Lender and Additional Lender, as applicable, may make arrangements satisfactory to such parties to cause an increasing Lender or an Additional Lender to temporarily hold risk participations in the outstanding Advances of the other Lenders (rather than fund its Pro Rata Share of all outstanding Advances concurrently with the applicable increase) with a view toward minimizing breakage costs and transfers of funds in connection with any increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount. To the extent that any increase pursuant to this is not expressly authorized pursuant to resolutions or consents delivered pursuant to , the Borrower shall, prior to the effectiveness of such increase, deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate signed by an authorized officer of the Borrower certifying and attaching the resolutions or consents that have been adopted to approve or consent to such increase.
Section 2.18
provided
Section 2.18
Section 3.01(b)(i)
SECTION 2.19 .
Defaulting Lenders
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
(a) fees shall cease to accrue on the unutilized portion of the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to ;
Section 2.03
(b) the Commitment Amount and LC Obligations of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether all Lenders or the Majority Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment or waiver pursuant to ); that, any waiver, amendment or modification (i) requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender, which affects such Defaulting Lender differently than other affected Lenders or (ii) under , ,  or  (except, in the case of or , with respect to fees as contemplated under this ), shall in each case require the consent of such Defaulting Lender;
Section 8.01
provided
Section 8.01(b)
(c)
(d)
(f)
Section 8.01(c)
(d)
Section 2.19
(c) if any LC Obligations exist at the time a Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender then:
(i) all or any part of such LC Obligations shall be reallocated among the non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares but only to the extent (x) the sum of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures plus such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations does not exceed the total of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Commitment Amounts, (y) the sum of each non-Defaulting Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure plus the portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations allocated to such non-Defaulting Lender does not exceed such non-Defaulting Lender's Commitment Amount and (z) the conditions set forth in are satisfied at such time;
Section 3.02
(ii) if the reallocation described in clause (i) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Borrower shall within one Business Day following notice by the Administrative Agent (after giving effect to any partial reallocation pursuant to clause (i) above) cash collateralize such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations in accordance with the procedures set forth in for so long as such LC Obligation is outstanding;
Section 2.16.12
(iii) if the Borrower cash collateralizes any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations pursuant to this , the Borrower shall not be
Section 2.19(c)
 
required to pay any fees to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations during the period such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations are cash collateralized;
Section 2.16.4
(iv) if the LC Obligations of the non-Defaulting Lenders are reallocated pursuant to this , then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to shall be adjusted in accordance with such non-Defaulting Lenders' Pro Rata Shares; and
Section 2.19(c)
Section 2.16.4
(v) if any Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations are neither cash collateralized nor reallocated pursuant to this , then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of the LC Issuers or any Lender hereunder, all facility fees that otherwise would have been payable to such Defaulting Lender (solely with respect to the portion of such Defaulting Lender's Commitment that was utilized by such LC Obligations) and letter of credit fees payable under with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations shall be payable to the applicable LC Issuers until such LC Obligations are cash collateralized and/or reallocated; and
Section 2.19(c)
Section 2.16.4
(d) so long as any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, no LC Issuer shall be required to issue, amend or increase any Facility LCs, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure and the Defaulting Lender's then outstanding LC Obligations will be 100% covered by the Commitments of the non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Borrower in accordance with , and participating interests in any such newly issued or increased Facility LC shall be allocated among non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with (and Defaulting Lenders shall not participate therein).
Section 2.19(c)
Section 2.19(c)(i)
In the event that the Administrative Agent, the Borrower, each LC Issuer each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the LC Obligations of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Advances of the other Lenders as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Advances in accordance with its Pro Rata Share.
SECTION 3.01 . This Agreement (including the Commitments of the Lenders and the obligations of the Borrower hereunder) shall become effective if, on or before April 15, 2011, all of the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness
(a) the Administrative Agent shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, that the Borrower has paid (or will pay with the proceeds of the initial Credit Extensions) all amounts then payable by the Borrower under the Existing Credit Facility and that all commitments to make extensions of credit to the Borrower thereunder have been (or concurrently with the initial Advances will be) terminated;
(b) the Administrative Agent shall have received (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of each party hereto or (ii) written evidence (which may include electronic transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that each party hereto has signed a counterpart of this
 
Agreement and each of the following documents, each dated a date reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
(i) Certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors or equivalent managing body of the Borrower approving the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and of all documents evidencing other necessary organizational action of the Borrower with respect to this Agreement and the documents contemplated hereby;
(ii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of Borrower certifying (A) the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder; (B) that attached thereto are true and correct copies of the organizational documents of the Borrower, in each case in effect on such date; and (C) that attached thereto are true and correct copies of all governmental and regulatory authorizations and approvals required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the documents contemplated hereby;
(iii) A certificate signed by either the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer or treasurer of the Borrower stating that (A) the representations and warranties contained in are correct on and as of the date of such certificate as though made on and as of such date and (B) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such certificate; and
Section 4.01
(iv) A favorable opinion of Ballard Spahr LLP, counsel for the Borrower, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent; and
(c) the Administrative Agent shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, that the Borrower has paid (or will pay with the proceeds of the initial Credit Extensions) all fees and, to the extent billed, expenses payable by the Borrower hereunder on the Effective Date (including amounts then payable to the Joint Active Lead Arrangers and the Agents).
Promptly upon the occurrence thereof, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower, the Lenders and the LC Issuers as to the Effective Date.
SECTION 3.02 . The obligation of each Lender to make any Advance and of each LC Issuer to issue or modify any Facility LC shall be subject to the conditions precedent that (a) the Effective Date shall have occurred and (b) on the date of such Credit Extension, the following statements shall be true (and (i) the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of Advances pursuant thereto and (ii) the request by the Borrower for the issuance or Modification of a Facility LC (as applicable) shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of the making of such Advances or the issuance or Modification of such Facility LC such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to All Credit Extensions
(A) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in (excluding the representations and warranties set forth in and the first sentence of ) are correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, before and after giving effect to such Credit Extension and, in the case of the making of Advances, the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
Section 4.01
Section 4.01(e)(ii)
Section 4.01(f)
(B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Credit Extension or, in the case of the making of Advances, from the application of the proceeds
 
therefrom, that constitutes an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default with respect to the Borrower.
SECTION 4.01 . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
(a) The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement are within the Borrower's powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational action on the part of the Borrower, and do not and will not contravene (i) the organizational documents of the Borrower, (ii) applicable law or (iii) any contractual or legal restriction binding on or affecting the properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
(c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, except any order that has been duly obtained and is (i) in full force and effect and (ii) sufficient for the purposes hereof.
(d) This Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by equitable principles or bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
(e) (i) The consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010 and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, certified by Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates in accordance with GAAP; and (ii) since December 31, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
(f) Except as disclosed in the Borrower's Annual, Quarterly or Current Reports, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to the Lenders prior to the Effective Date, there is no pending or threatened action, investigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that may reasonably be anticipated to have a Material Adverse Effect. There is no pending or threatened action or proceeding against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that purports to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of this Agreement.
(g) No proceeds of any Advance have been or will be used directly or indirectly in connection with the acquisition of in excess of 5% of any class of equity securities that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or any transaction subject to the requirements of Section 13 or 14 of the Exchange Act.
 
(h) The Borrower is not engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock. Not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is represented by margin stock.
(i) The Borrower is not required to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(j) During the twelve consecutive month period prior to the date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the date of any Credit Extension, no steps have been taken by the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, by any other Person to terminate any Plan (excluding any termination arising out of the institution by or against any ComEd Entity of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding so long as such termination would not constitute an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default under ), and there has been no failure to satisfy the minimum funding standard described in Section 412(a)(2) of the Code with respect to any Single Employer Plan that would reasonably be expected to result in a lien pursuant to Section 430(k) of the Code. To the knowledge of the Borrower, no condition exists or event or transaction has occurred with respect to any Plan, which would reasonably be expected to result in the incurrence by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group of any material liability (other than to make contributions, pay annual PBGC premiums or pay out benefits in the ordinary course of business), fine or penalty (excluding any condition, event or transaction arising out of the institution by or against any ComEd Entity of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding so long as such condition, event or transaction does not constitute an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default under ).
Section 6.01(g)
Section 6.01(g)
SECTION 5.01 . The Borrower agrees that so long as any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder remains unpaid, any Facility LC remains outstanding or the Commitments have not been irrevocably terminated, the Borrower will, and, in the case of , will cause its Principal Subsidiaries to, unless the Majority Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
Affirmative Covenants
Section 5.01(a)
(a) .
Keep Books; Existence; Maintenance of Properties; Compliance with Laws; Insurance; Taxes
(i) keep proper books of record and account, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, consistently applied;
(ii) subject to , preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence;
Section 5.02(b)
(iii) maintain and preserve all of its properties (except such properties the failure of which to maintain or preserve would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect) which are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted;
 
(iv) comply in all material respects with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders (including those of any governmental authority and including with respect to environmental matters) to the extent the failure to so comply, individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect;
(v) maintain insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations, or self-insure, as the case may be, in each case in such amounts and covering such contingencies, casualties and risks as is customarily carried by or self-insured against by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower and its Principal Subsidiaries operate;
(vi) at any reasonable time and from time to time, pursuant to prior notice delivered to the Borrower, permit any Lender, or any agent or representative of any thereof, to examine and, at such Lender's expense, make copies of, and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower and any Principal Subsidiary and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any Principal Subsidiary with any of their respective officers; that any non-public information (which has been identified as such by the Borrower or the applicable Principal Subsidiary) obtained by any Lender or any of its agents or representatives pursuant to this  shall be treated confidentially by such Person; , , that such Person may disclose such information to (a) any other party to this Agreement, its examiners, Affiliates, outside auditors, counsel or other professional advisors in connection with this Agreement, (b) to any direct, indirect, actual or prospective counterparty (and its advisor) to any swap, derivative or securitization transaction related to the obligations under the Credit Agreement, (c) to any credit insurance provider or (d) if otherwise required to do so by law or regulatory process (it being understood that, unless prevented from doing so by any applicable law or governmental authority, such Person shall use reasonable efforts to notify the Borrower of any demand or request for any such information promptly upon receipt thereof so that the Borrower may seek a protective order or take other appropriate action);
provided
clause (vi)
provided
further
(vii) use the proceeds of the Advances for general corporate purposes (including the refinancing of its commercial paper and the making of acquisitions), but in no event for any purpose that would be contrary to or
Section 4.01(g)
4.01(h); and
(viii) pay, prior to delinquency, all of its federal income taxes and other material taxes and governmental charges, except to the extent that (a) such taxes or charges are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and against which adequate reserves are being maintained or (b) failure to pay such taxes or charges would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) . Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
(i) as soon as possible, and in any event within five Business Days after the occurrence of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default with respect to the Borrower continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of an authorized officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(ii) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the Borrower's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such quarter (or, if the Borrower is not required to file a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, copies of an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of the end of such quarter and the related consolidated statement of operations of the Borrower for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year ending on the last day of such quarter, in each case prepared in accordance with GAAP, subject to the absence of footnotes and to year-end adjustments), together with a certificate of an authorized officer of the Borrower stating that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if any such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
(iii) as soon as available and in any event within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such fiscal year (or, if the Borrower is not required to file an Annual Report on Form 10-K, the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its subsidiaries as of the last day of such fiscal year and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity (if applicable) and cash flows of the Borrower for such fiscal year, certified by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other certified public accountants of recognized national standing), together with a certificate of an authorized officer of the Borrower stating that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if any such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
(iv) concurrently with the delivery of the quarterly and annual reports referred to in and , a compliance certificate in substantially the form set forth in , duly completed and signed by the Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Borrower;
Sections 5.01(b)(ii)
5.01(b)(iii)
Exhibit D
(v) except as otherwise provided in  or  above, promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that the Borrower sends to its security holders generally, and copies of all Reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q or 8-K, and registration statements and prospectuses that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange (except to the extent that any such registration statement or prospectus relates solely to the issuance of securities pursuant to employee purchase, benefit or dividend reinvestment plans of the Borrower or a Subsidiary);
clause (ii)
(iii)
(vi) promptly upon becoming aware of the institution of any steps by the Borrower or any other Person to terminate any Plan, or the failure to make a required contribution to any Plan if such failure is sufficient to give rise to a lien under section 430(k) of the Code, or the taking of any action with respect to a Plan which could result in the requirement that the Borrower furnish a bond or other security to the PBGC or such Plan, or the occurrence of any event with respect to any Plan which could result in the incurrence by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group of any material liability, fine or penalty, notice thereof and a statement as to the action the Borrower or such member of the Controlled Group proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(vii) promptly upon becoming aware thereof, notice of any change in the Moody's Rating, the Fitch Rating or the S&P Rating; and
(viii) such other information respecting the condition, operations or business, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as any Lender, through the Administrative Agent, may from time to time reasonably request (including any information that any Lender reasonably requests in order to comply with its obligations under any "know your customer" or anti-money laundering laws or regulations).
The Borrower may provide information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this and all other notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any communication that (i) relates to a request for a Credit Extension, (ii) relates to the payment of any amount due under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor or any reduction of the Commitments, (iii) provides notice of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default, (iv) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement or any Credit Extension hereunder or (v) relates to a request for an extension of the scheduled Termination Date pursuant to or an increase in the Commitments pursuant to (any non-excluded communication described above, a ""), electronically (including by posting such documents, or providing a link thereto, on the Borrower's Internet website). Any document readily available on-line through the "Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieval" system (or any successor system thereof) maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission (or any succeeding Governmental Authority), shall be deemed to have been furnished to the Administrative Agent for purposes of this when the Borrower sends to the Administrative Agent notice (which may be by electronic mail) that such documents are so available. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower agrees that, to the extent requested by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, it will continue to provide "hard copies" of Communications to the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as applicable.
Section 5.01(b)
Section 2.17
Section 2.18
Communication
Section 5.01(b)
The Borrower further agrees that the Administrative Agent may make Communications available to the Lenders by posting such Communications on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").
Platform
THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE". THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT DOES NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ANY COMMUNICATION OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN ANY COMMUNICATION. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT IN CONNECTION WITH ANY COMMUNICATION OR THE PLATFORM. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT HAVE ANY LIABILITY TO THE BORROWER, ANY LENDER OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR DAMAGES, LOSSES OR EXPENSES (WHETHER IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF THE BORROWER'S OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S TRANSMISSION OF COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH THE INTERNET, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT SUCH DAMAGES ARE FOUND IN A FINAL NON-APPEALABLE JUDGMENT BY A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION TO HAVE RESULTED FROM SUCH PERSON'S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT. WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THE
 
PLATFORM OR THE BORROWER'S OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S TRANSMISSION OF COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH THE INTERNET.
Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) specifying that a Communication has been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such Communication to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time of the e-mail address to which the foregoing notice may be sent and (ii) that such notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
SECTION 5.02 . The Borrower agrees that so long as any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder remains unpaid, any Facility LC remains outstanding or the Commitments have not been irrevocably terminated (except with respect to , which shall be applicable only as of the date hereof and at any time any Advance or Facility LC is outstanding or is to be made or issued, as applicable), the Borrower will not, without the written consent of the Majority Lenders:
Negative Covenants
Section 5.02(a)
(a) . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, or permit Genco to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, any Lien on its property, revenues or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except as follows:
Limitation on Liens
(i) Liens imposed by law, such as carriers', warehousemen's, landlords' repairmen's, materialmen's and mechanics' Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business;
(ii) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges, levies, or fines (including such amounts arising under environmental law) on property of the Borrower or Genco if the same shall not at the time be delinquent or thereafter can be paid without a material penalty, or are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings;
(iii) Liens on the capital stock of or any other equity interest in any Subsidiary (other than (A) Genco and any holding company for Genco and (B) if it is a Subsidiary, PECO and any holding company for PECO) to secure Nonrecourse Indebtedness;
(iv) Liens upon or in any property acquired in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or to secure any obligation incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property;
(v) Liens existing on property at the time of the acquisition thereof (other than any such Lien created in contemplation of such acquisition unless permitted by the preceding );
clause (iv)
(vi) Liens granted in connection with any financing arrangement for the purchase of nuclear fuel or the financing of pollution control facilities, limited to the fuel or facilities so purchased or acquired;
(vii) Liens arising in connection with sales or transfers of, or financing secured by, accounts receivable or related contracts, provided that any such sale, transfer or financing shall be on arms' length terms;
(viii) Liens securing Permitted Obligations and reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit issued to support Permitted Obligations (for the avoidance of
 
doubt, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) program and any other similar agreement or arrangement, including with any Independent System Operator, are permitted under this clause (viii));
(ix) Permitted Encumbrances;
(x) Liens arising in connection with sale and leaseback transactions entered into by the Borrower or Genco, but only to the extent that the aggregate purchase price of all assets sold by the Borrower or Genco during the term of this Agreement pursuant to such sale and leaseback transactions does not exceed $1,000,000,000;
(xi) Liens arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, compensation arrangements, supplemental retirement plans arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, compensation arrangements, supplemental retirement plans or other social security or similar legislation;
(xii) Liens constituting attachment, judgment and other similar Liens arising in connection with court proceedings to the extent not constituting an Event of Default under ;
Section 6.01(f)
(xiii) Liens created in the ordinary course of business to secure liability to insurance carriers and Liens on insurance policies and the proceeds thereof (whether accrued or not), rights or claims against an insurer or other similar asset securing insurance premium financings;
(xiv) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of business;
(xv) Liens in the nature of rights of setoff, bankers' liens, revocation, refund, chargeback, counterclaim, netting of cash amounts or similar rights as to deposit accounts, commodity accounts or securities accounts or other funds maintained with a credit or depository institution;
(xvi) Liens consisting of pledges of industrial development, pollution control or similar revenue bonds in connection with the remarketing of such bonds;
(xvii) Liens created under and similar cash collateralization obligations relating to defaulting lenders and remedies upon default;
Section 2.19
(xviii) Liens arising under leases or subleases, licenses or sublicenses granted to others that do not materially interfere with the ordinary course of business of the Borower or Genco;
(xix) Liens resulting from any restriction on any equity interest (or project interest, interests in any energy facility (including undivided interests)) of a Person providing for a breach, termination or default under any owners, participation, shared facility, joint venture, stockholder, membership, limited liability company or partnership agreement between such Person and one or more other holders of equity interest (or project interest, interests in any energy facility (including undivided interests)) of such
 
Person, to the extent a security interest or other Lien is created on any such interest as a result thereof;
(xx) Liens granted on cash or cash equivalents to defease or repay Indebtedness of the Borrower or Genco no later than 60 days after the creation of such Lien;
(xxi) Liens created in connection with sales, transfers, leases, assignment or other conveyances or dispositions of assets, including (A) Liens on assets or securities granted or deemed to arise in connection with and as a result of the execution, delivery or performance of contracts to purchase or sell such assets or securities, and (B) rights of first refusal, options or other contractual rights or obligations to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of any interest therein; and
(xxii) Liens, other than those described above in this , that the aggregate amount of all Debt secured by Liens permitted by this  shall not exceed in the aggregate at any one time outstanding (A) in the case of Genco, $100,000,000, and (B) in the case of the Borrower and Genco collectively, $200,000,000.
Section 5.02(a)
provided
clause (xxii)
(b) . Merge with or into or consolidate with or into, or sell, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person or permit any Principal Subsidiary to do so, except that (i) Constellation or any other Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to Genco or any other Principal Subsidiary, (ii) Constellation or any other Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to the Borrower (and the Borrower may transfer any Constellation assets acquired by the Borrower through any such merger, consolidation or transfer to Genco or any other Principal Subsidiary), (iii) Genco may merge or consolidate with or into a Subsidiary thereof formed for the purpose of converting Genco into a corporation and (iv) the Borrower, Constellation or any other Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to any other Person, that, in each case, (A) immediately before and after giving effect thereto, no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (except in the case where any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to any other Principal Subsidiary), (B) in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which the Borrower is a party, either (x) the Borrower shall be the surviving entity or transferee (as applicable), or (y) the surviving entity or transferee (as applicable), shall be an Eligible Successor and shall have assumed all of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and the Facility LCs pursuant to a written instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion of counsel in form and substance satisfactory to it as to the enforceability of such obligations assumed and (C) subject to clause (B) above, in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which any Principal Subsidiary is a party, a Principal Subsidiary shall be the surviving entity or transferee (as applicable).
Mergers and Consolidations; Disposition of Assets
provided
(c) . Permit the Interest Coverage Ratio as of the last day of any fiscal quarter to be less than 2.50 to 1.0.
Interest Coverage Ratio
(d) . Engage, or permit any Subsidiary to engage, in any line of business which is material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, other than businesses engaged in by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date hereof and reasonable extensions thereof.
Continuation of Businesses
 
(e) . Fail at any time to own, free and clear of all Liens, 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests of Genco (or of a holding company which owns, free and clear of all Liens, 100% of the issued and outstanding equity interests of Genco).
Capital Structure
(f) . Permit Genco or any holding company for Genco to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other contractual arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon the ability of Genco to declare or pay dividends to the Borrower (or, if applicable, to its holding company).
Restrictive Agreements
SECTION 6.01 . If any of the following events shall occur and be continuing (any such event an "Event of Default"):
Events of Default
(a) The Borrower shall fail to pay (i) any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable, (ii) any Reimbursement Obligation within one Business Day after the same becomes due and payable or (iii) any interest on any Advance or any other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
(b) Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or by the Borrower (or any of its officers) pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made; or
(c) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe (i) any term, covenant or agreement contained in , or or (ii) any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if the failure to perform or observe such other term, covenant or agreement shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent (which notice shall be given by the Administrative Agent at the written request of any Lender); or
Section 5.01(a)(vii)
Section 5.01(b)(i)
Section 5.02
(d) The Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt hereunder and Nonrecourse Indebtedness) when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment), prior to the stated maturity thereof, other than any acceleration of any Debt secured by equipment leases or fuel leases of the Borrower or a Principal Subsidiary as a result of the occurrence of any event requiring a prepayment (whether or not characterized as such) thereunder, which prepayment will not result in a Material Adverse Change; or
(e) The Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding
 
up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary shall take any corporate or limited liability company action to authorize or to consent to any of the actions set forth above in this ; or
Section 6.01(e)
(f) One or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding $100,000,000 (excluding any such judgments or orders to the extent covered by insurance, subject to any customary deductible, and under which the applicable insurance carrier has not denied coverage) shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; or
(g) (i) Any Reportable Event that the Majority Lenders determine in good faith is reasonably likely to result in the termination of any Single Employer Plan or in the appointment by the appropriate United States District Court of a trustee to administer a Single Employer Plan shall have occurred and be continuing 60 days after written notice to such effect shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent; (ii) any Single Employer Plan shall be terminated; (iii) a Trustee shall be appointed by an appropriate United States District Court to administer any Single Employer Plan; (iv) the PBGC shall institute proceedings to terminate any Single Employer Plan or to appoint a trustee to administer any Single Employer Plan; or (v) the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group withdraws from any Multiemployer Plan; that on the date of any event described in  through  above, the Unfunded Liabilities of the applicable Plan exceed $100,000,000; and , , that no event described in this that arises out of the institution by or against any ComEd Entity of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding shall constitute an Event of Default unless 15 days shall have elapsed after the Majority Lenders have reasonably determined, and notified the Borrower in writing, that such event has had or is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (disregarding, solely for purposes of this , the proviso to  of the definition of Material Adverse Effect);
provided
clauses (i)
(v)
provided
further
Section 6.01(g)
Section 6.01(g)
clause (i)
then, and in any such event, the Administrative Agent shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, (i) declare the respective Commitments of the Lenders and the commitment of the LC Issuers to issue Facility LCs to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and/or (ii) declare the outstanding principal amount of the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement by the Borrower (including all contingent LC Obligations) to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the outstanding principal amount of the Advances, all such interest and all such other amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; that in the event of an Event of Default under , (A) the obligation of each Lender to make any Advance to the Borrower and the obligation of each LC Issuer to issue Facility LCs shall automatically be terminated and (B) the outstanding principal amount of all Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder (including all contingent LC Obligations) shall automatically and immediately become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; that any amounts provided by Borrower pursuant to the foregoing as a result of the
provided
Section 6.01(e)
provided
 
occurrence of an Event of Default relating to contingent LC Obligations shall be returned to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived.
SECTION 7.01 . Each Lender hereby appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as administrative agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement (including enforcement or collection of the obligations of the Borrower hereunder), the Administrative Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Majority Lenders, and such instructions shall be binding upon all Lenders; that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes the Administrative Agent to personal liability or which is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law. The Administrative Agent agrees to give to each Lender prompt notice of each notice given to it by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Authorization and Action
provided
SECTION 7.02 Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement, except for its or their respective own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing: (i) the Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts; (ii) the Administrative Agent makes no warranty or representation to any Lender and shall not be responsible to any Lender for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in connection with this Agreement; (iii) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of the Borrower or to inspect the property (including the books and records) of the Borrower; (iv) the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; and (v) the Administrative Agent shall not incur any liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by facsimile) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties.
Administrative Agent's Reliance, Etc.
SECTION 7.03 . With respect to its Commitment, Advances and other rights and obligations hereunder in its capacity as a Lender, JPMCB shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent; and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall include JPMCB in its individual capacity. JPMCB and its affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee under indentures of, and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower, any Affiliate thereof and any Person who may do business with or own securities of the Borrower or any such Affiliate, all as if it were not Administrative Agent and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Administrative Agent and Affiliates
SECTION 7.04 . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on the financial statements referred to in and such other documents and information as it has deemed
Lender Credit Decision
Section 4.01(e)
 
appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement.
SECTION 7.05 . The Lenders agree to indemnify the Administrative Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to their respective Pro Rata Shares, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Administrative Agent under this Agreement, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent promptly upon demand for its Pro Rata Share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that such expenses are reimbursable by the Borrower but for which the Administrative Agent is not reimbursed by the Borrower.
Indemnification
provided
SECTION 7.06 . The Administrative Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Majority Lenders. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Majority Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Administrative Agent. If no successor Administrative Agent shall have been so appointed by the Majority Lenders, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Majority Lenders' removal of the retiring Administrative Agent, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be a commercial bank described in  or  of the definition of "Eligible Assignee" having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then no successor Administrative Agent shall be appointed under this without the prior written consent of the Borrower, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Successor Administrative Agent
clause (i)
(ii)
Article VII
Section 7.06
SECTION 7.07 . The titles "Co-Documentation Agents," "Co-Syndication Agents", "Joint Active Lead Arrangers", "Joint Passive Arrangers", "Joint Active Bookrunners", and "Joint Passive Bookrunners" (each, in such capacity or capacities, a "Titled Person") are purely honorific, and no Person designated as a Titled Person shall have any duties or responsibilities in such capacity and no Titled Person shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender or with the Borrower or any of its Affiliates.
Co-Documentation Agents, Co-Syndication Agents, Joint Active Lead Arrangers, Joint Passive Arrangers, Joint Active Bookrunners and Joint Passive Bookrunners
 
SECTION 8.01 Subject to , no amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Majority Lenders and, in the case of an amendment, the Borrower, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all Lenders (other than any Lender that is the Borrower or an Affiliate thereof), do any of the following: (a) waive or amend any of the conditions specified in or , (b) increase or extend the Commitments of the Lenders (other than pursuant to or ) or subject the Lenders to any additional obligations, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, any Advance, any Reimbursement Obligation or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, any Advance, any Reimbursement Obligation or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder or the definition of Majority Lenders, (f) amend this or (g) waive or amend any provision regarding pro rata sharing or otherwise relates to the distribution of payments among Lenders; , , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent, in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each LC Issuer, in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of such LC Issuer under this Agreement; and (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall amend, modify or waive without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each LC Issuer.
Amendments, Etc.
Section 2.19
provided
Section 3.01
3.02
Section 2.17
2.18
Section 8.01
provided
further
Section 2.19
SECTION 8.02 All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and mailed, sent by facsimile or delivered, if to the Borrower, at 10 S. Dearborn, 54th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603, Attention: Matthew F. Hilzinger, facsimile: (312) 394-5215; if to any Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified in its Administrative Questionnaire or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender; and if to the Administrative Agent, at its address at 1111 Fannin St., 10th Floor, Houston, TX 77002, Attention: Brenda Alleyne, facsimile: (713) 750-2666 or, as to each party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties. All such notices and communications shall be effective (a) if mailed, three Business Days after being deposited in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, (b) if sent by facsimile, when such facsimile is sent (except that if not sent during normal business hours for the recipient, such facsimile shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient), and (c) otherwise, when delivered, except that notices and communications to the Administrative Agent pursuant to or shall not be effective until received by the Administrative Agent.
Notices, Etc.
Article II
VII
SECTION 8.03 . No failure on the part of any Lender, any LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
SECTION 8.04 .
Costs and Expenses; Indemnification
 
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the Joint Active Lead Arrangers in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, syndication, modification and amendment of this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including the reasonable fees, internal charges and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel (including in-house counsel) for the Administrative Agent and the Joint Active Lead Arrangers with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Administrative Agent and the Joint Active Lead Arrangers as to their respective rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Borrower further agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses, if any (including counsel fees and expenses of outside counsel and of internal counsel), incurred by the Administrative Agent, any LC Issuer or any Lender in connection with the collection and enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered by the Borrower hereunder, including reasonable counsel fees and expenses in connection with the enforcement of rights under this .
Section 8.04(a)
(b) If any payment of principal of, or any conversion of, any Eurodollar Advance is made other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or conversion pursuant to or or acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to or for any other reason, the Borrower shall, upon demand by any Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender any amount required to compensate such Lender for any additional loss, cost or expense which it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or conversion, including any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
Section 2.09
2.12
Section 6.01
(c) The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold each Lender, each LC Issuer, each Agent and each of their respective Affiliates, officers, directors, advisors, agents and employees (each, an "") harmless from and against any claim, damage, loss, liability, cost or expense (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses, whether or not such Indemnified Person is named as a party to any proceeding or is otherwise subjected to judicial or legal process arising from any such proceeding) that any of them may pay or incur arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, or the use by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the proceeds of any Advance; that the Borrower shall not be liable for any portion of any such claim, damage, loss, liability, cost or expense resulting from such Indemnified Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined in a final non-appealable order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The Borrower's obligations under this shall survive the repayment of all amounts owing by the Borrower to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under this Agreement and the termination of the Commitments and this Agreement. If and to the extent that the obligations of the Borrower under this are unenforceable for any reason, the Borrower agrees to make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction thereof which is permissible under applicable law. This shall not apply with respect to Taxes other than any Taxes that represent losses or damages arising from any non-Tax claim. In the case of an investigation, litigation or proceeding to which the indemnity in this paragraph applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, any of the Borrower's equityholders or creditors, an Indemnified Person or any other person or entity, whether or not an Indemnified Person is otherwise a party thereto.
Indemnified Person
provided
Section 8.04(c)
Section 8.04(c)
Section 8.04(c)
SECTION 8.05 . Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of , each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time
Right of Set-off
Section 6.01
Section 6.01
 
owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower promptly after any such set-off and application made by such Lender or Affiliate thereof, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender under this are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) that such Lender may have.
provided
Section 8.05
SECTION 8.06 . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agents and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, that (except as permitted by ) the Borrower shall not have the right to assign rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all Lenders.
Binding Effect
provided
Section 5.02(b)(iii)
SECTION 8.07 .
Assignments and Participations
(a) Each Lender may, with the prior written consent of the Borrower, each LC Issuer and the Administrative Agent (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and if demanded by the Borrower pursuant to shall to the extent required by such Section, assign to one or more banks or other entities all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and its participation in Facility LCs); that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (ii) the Commitment Amount of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $5,000,000 or, if less, the entire amount of such Lender's Commitment, and shall be an integral multiple of $1,000,000 or such Lender's entire Commitment, (iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee, (iv) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 (which shall be payable by one or more of the parties to the Assignment and Assumption, and not by the Borrower (except in the case of a demand under ), and shall not be payable if the assignee is a Federal Reserve Bank), (v) the consent of the Borrower shall not be required after the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, and (vi) the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within five (5) Business Days after having received notice thereof. Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Assumption, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under this Agreement and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto (although an assigning Lender shall continue to be entitled to indemnification pursuant to ). Notwithstanding anything contained in this to the contrary, (A) the consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall not be required with respect to any assignment by any Lender to an Affiliate of such Lender or to another Lender or to an Approved Fund, and (B) any Lender may at any time, without the consent of the Borrower, any LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent, and without any requirement to have an Assignment and Assumption executed, assign all or any part of its rights under this Agreement to a Federal Reserve Bank, that no such assignment shall release the transferor Lender from any of its obligations hereunder.
Section 8.07(g)
provided
Section 8.07(g)
Section 8.04(c)
Section 8.07(a)
provided
 
For the purposes of this , the term "Approved Fund" has the following meaning:
Section 8.07(a)
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
(b) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Assumption, the Lender assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Assumption, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Assumption; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Section 4.01(e)
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment Amount of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Section 8.02
Register
(d) Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, the Administrative Agent shall, if such Assignment and Assumption has been completed and is in substantially the form of (including any necessary consents of the Administrative Agent, the LC Issuers and the Borrower), (i) accept such Assignment and Assumption, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower.
Exhibit A
(e) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, any LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged; (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations; and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the
Participant
provided
 
other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under (it being understood that the documentation required under shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to  of this Section; that such Participant (A) agrees to be subject to the provisions of and as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section; and (B) shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or , with respect to any participation, than its participating Lender would have been entitled to receive, except to the extent such entitlement to receive a greater payment results from a Change in Law that occurs after the Participant acquired the applicable participation. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to 5 as though it were a Lender. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Advances or other obligations under this Agreement (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Commitments, Advances or its other obligations hereunder) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Commitment, Advance, or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.
provided
Section 8.01
Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04(b)
Section 2.14(f)
Section 2.14(f)
paragraph (b)
provided
Sections 2.15
8.07(g)
Sections 2.11
2.14
Section 8.05
Section 2.1
Participant Register
provided
(f) Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this , disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Borrower furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower; that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to the Borrower received by it from such Lender (subject to customary exceptions regarding regulatory requirements, compliance with legal process and other requirements of law).
Section 8.07
provided
(g) If any Lender (i) shall make demand for payment under , or , (ii) shall deliver any notice to the Administrative Agent pursuant to resulting in the suspension of certain obligations of the Lenders with respect to Eurodollar Advances, (iii) does not consent to an amendment or waiver that requires the consent of all Lenders and has been approved by the Majority Lenders, or (iv) is a Defaulting Lender, (A) in the case of , within 60 days after such demand (if, but only if, the payment demanded under , or has been made by the Borrower), (B) in the case of , within 60 days after such notice (if such suspension is still in effect), (C) in the case of , within 60 days after the date the Majority Lenders approve the applicable amendment or waiver, or (D) in the case of , at any time so long as such Lender continues to be a Defaulting Lender, as the case may be, the Borrower may demand that such Lender assign in accordance with this to one or more Eligible Assignees designated by the Borrower and reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the LC Issuers all (but not less than all) of such Lender's rights and obligations hereunder within the next succeeding 30 days; that such
Section 2.11(a)
2.11(b)
2.14
Section 2.12
then
clause (i)
Section 2.11(a)
2.11(b)
2.14
clause (ii)
clause (iii)
clause (v)
Section 8.07
provided
 
Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances and participations in LC Obligations, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts). If any such Eligible Assignee designated by the Borrower shall fail to consummate such assignment on terms acceptable to such Lender, or if the Borrower shall fail to designate any such Eligible Assignee for all of such Lender's Commitment, Advances and participation in Facility LCs, then such Lender may (but shall not be required to) assign such Commitment and Advances to any other Eligible Assignee in accordance with this during such period. No replacement of a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this shall be deemed to be a waiver of any right that the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any LC Issuer or any other Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender. In the event that a Lender assigns any Eurodollar Advances pursuant to this , such assignment shall be deemed to be a prepayment by the Borrower of such Eurodollar Advances for purposes of .
Section 8.07
Section 8.07(g)
Section 8.07(g)
Section 8.04(b)
(h) If any LC Issuer does not consent to (A) a request by the Borrower to extend the Existing Termination Date pursuant to or (B) a request by the Borrower to increase the Aggregate Commitment Amount pursuant to , the Borrower may upon written notice to the Administrative Agent and such LC Issuer, (i) reduce the LC Sublimit by an amount equal to such LC Issuer's LC Pro Rata Share of the LC Sublimit and such LC Issuer shall cease to be an LC Issuer as of the date of such notice by the Borrower pursuant to this (in which case the consent of such LC Issuer shall not be required under or ) or (ii) require such LC Issuer to assign and delegate its rights and obligations hereunder, as an LC Issuer and as a Lender in accordance with and, in each case, the Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to such LC Issuer with respect to any Facility LCs previously issued by such LC Issuer.
Section 2.17
Section 2.18
Section 8.07(h)
Section 2.17
2.18
Section 8.07(g),
(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (an ""), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Bank to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide to the Borrower all or any part of any Advance that such Granting Bank would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to make any Advance, (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Advance, the Granting Bank shall be obligated to make such Advance pursuant to the terms hereof. The making of an Advance by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Bank to the same extent, and as if, such Advance were made by such Granting Bank. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement (all liability for which shall remain with the Granting Bank). In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior indebtedness of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Advance to the Granting Bank or to any financial institution (consented to by the Borrower and Administrative Agent, which consents shall be unreasonably withheld or delayed) providing liquidity and/or credit support to or for the account of such SPC to support the funding or maintenance of Advances and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Advances to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC. This may not be amended in any manner which adversely affects a Granting Bank or an SPC without the written consent of such Granting Bank or SPC.
Granting Bank
SPC
provided
Section 8.07
Section 8.07(i)
 
SECTION 8.08
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Governing Law
SECTION 8.09 . .
Consent to Jurisdiction; Certain Waivers
(a) THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA AND ANY UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SITTING IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN ANY SUCH COURT AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY OBJECTION IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AS TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT OR THAT SUCH COURT IS AN INCONVENIENT FORUM. NOTHING HEREIN SHALL LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER TO BRING PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE BORROWER IN THE COURTS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION
.
(b) EXCEPT AS PROHIBITED BY LAW, EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO CLAIM OR RECOVER IN ANY LITIGATION ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT ANY SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES OTHER THAN, OR IN ADDITION TO, ACTUAL DAMAGES
SECTION 8.10 . .
Waiver of Jury Trial
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION
SECTION 8.11 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding among the parties hereto and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.
Execution in Counterparts; Integration
SECTION 8.12 . The following notification is provided to the Borrower pursuant to Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act of 2001, 31 U.S.C. Section 5318:
USA PATRIOT ACT NOTIFICATION
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT PROCEDURES FOR OPENING A NEW ACCOUNT. To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or entity that opens an account, including any deposit account, treasury management
 
account, loan, other extension of credit, or other financial services product. What this means for the Borrower: When the Borrower opens an account, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders will ask for the Borrower's name, tax identification number and business address and other information that will allow the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to identify the Borrower. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders may also ask to see the Borrower's legal organizational documents or other identifying documents.
SECTION 8.13 . In connection with all aspects of the transactions contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent, the other Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers, the LC Issuers and the Lenders are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, the other Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers, the LC Issuers and the Lenders on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent, each other Agent, each Joint Lead Arranger, each LC Issuer and each Lender is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) none of the Administrative Agent, any other Agent, any Joint Lead Arranger, any LC Issuer nor any Lender has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein; and (iii) the Administrative Agent, the other Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers, the LC Issuers and the Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent, any other Agent, any Joint Lead Arranger, any LC Issuer nor any Lender has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent, the other Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers, the LC Issuers and the Lenders with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
SECTION 8.14 . JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent under the Existing Credit Facility, the Borrower and each Lender that is a party to the Existing Credit Facility (together with other Lenders that are parties to the Existing Credit Facility constitute the "Majority Lenders" under and as defined in the Existing Credit Facility) agree that concurrently with the effectiveness hereof pursuant to , all commitments to extend credit under the Existing Credit Facility shall terminate and be of no further force or effect (without regard to any requirement in the Existing Credit Facility for prior notice of termination of such commitments).
Termination of Existing Credit Facility
Section 3.01
 
The "Applicable Margin," the "LC Fee Rate" and the "Facility Fee Rate" for any day are the respective percentages set forth below in the applicable row under the column corresponding to the Pricing Level that exists on such day:
 
For the purposes of the foregoing (but subject to the final paragraph of this Pricing Schedule):
"Debt Rating" means, as of any date of determination, the Fitch Rating, the Moody's Rating or the S&P Rating.
"Fitch" means Fitch, Inc.
"Fitch Rating" means, at any time, the rating issued by Fitch and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
"Moody's Rating" means, at any time, the rating issued by Moody's and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC business.
"S&P Rating" means, at any time, the rating issued by S&P and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
For purposes of the foregoing, (a) at any time that Debt Ratings are available from each of S&P, Moody's and Fitch and there is a split among such Debt Ratings, then (i) if any two of such Debt Ratings are in the same level, such level shall apply or (ii) if each of such Debt Ratings is in a different level, the level that is the middle level shall apply and (b) at any time that Debt Ratings are available only from any
 
two of S&P, Moody's and Fitch and there is a split in such Debt Ratings, then the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply, there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, in which case the level that is one level higher than the lower Debt Rating shall apply. The Debt Ratings shall be determined from the most recent public announcement of any changes in the Debt Ratings. If the rating system of S&P, Moody's or Fitch shall change, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall negotiate in good faith to amend the definition of "Debt Rating" to reflect such changed rating system and, pending the effectiveness of such amendment (which shall require the approval of the Majority Lenders), the Debt Rating shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change. If the Borrower has no Fitch Rating, no Moody's Rating and no S&P Rating, Pricing Level VI shall apply.
*
unless
 
 
 
 
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [ (the "") and (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
]
Assignor
[
Insert name of Assignee
]
Assignee
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below, the interest in and to all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto that represents the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of the Assignor's outstanding rights and obligations under the respective facilities identified below (including without limitation any letters of credit, guaranties and swingline loans included in such facilities and, to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims (including without limitation contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity), suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor against any Person whether known or unknown arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby) other than claims for indemnification or reimbursement with respect to any period prior to Effective Date (the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date:                     , 20            [TO BE INSERTED BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
 
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1 . The Assignor represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. Neither the Assignor nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents or attorneys shall be responsible for (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency, perfection, priority, collectibility, or value of the Credit Agreement or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the Credit Agreement, (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement, (v) inspecting any of the property, books or records of the Borrower, or any guarantor, or (vi) any mistake, error of judgment, or action taken or omitted to be taken in connection with the Credit Extensions or the Credit Agreement.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iii) agrees that its payment instructions and notice instructions are as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Assumption, (iv) confirms that none of the funds, monies, assets or other consideration being used to make the purchase and assumption hereunder are "plan assets" as defined under ERISA and that its rights, benefits and interests in and under the Credit Agreement will not be "plan assets" under ERISA, (v) agrees to indemnify and hold the Assignor harmless against all losses, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees) and liabilities incurred by the Assignor in connection with or arising in any manner from the Assignee's non-performance of the obligations assumed under this Assignment and Assumption, (vi) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of financial statements and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (vii) attached as Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by the Assignee with respect to its tax status pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2. . The Assignee shall pay the Assignor, on the Effective Date, the amount agreed to by the Assignor and the Assignee. From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, Reimbursement Obligations, fees and other amounts) to the Assignee.
Payments
 
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent,
and the Lenders that are parties to
the Credit Agreement referred to below
1111 Fannin St., 10th Floor
Houston, TX 77002
Attention: Utilities Department
North American Finance Group
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, Exelon Corporation (the "Borrower"), refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, among the Borrower, various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned requests a Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Borrowing (the "Proposed Borrowing") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is             , 20        .
(ii) The Type of Advances to be made in connection with the Proposed Borrowing is Base Rate AdvancesEurodollar Advances.
[
] [
]
(iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Borrowing is $        .
(iv) The Interest Period for each Eurodollar Advance made as part of the Proposed Borrowing is [14 days] [ month[s]].
    
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
(A) the representations and warranties of the undersigned contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (excluding the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.01(e) and the first sentence of Section 4.01(f) of the Credit Agreement) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date;
(B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the Proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default; and
 
(C) after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing, the undersigned will not have exceeded any limitation on its ability to incur indebtedness (including any limitation imposed by any governmental or regulatory authority).
 
 
                    , 20    
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent
under the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies/Gentlemen:
Please refer to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 among Exelon Corporation, as borrower (the ""), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the respective meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
In accordance with Section 2.18 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower hereby requests an increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount from $            to $            . Such increase shall be made by [increasing the Commitment Amount of             from $            to $            ] [adding             as a Lender under the Credit Agreement with a Commitment Amount of $            ] as set forth in the letter attached hereto. Such increase shall be effective three Business Days after the date that the Administrative Agent accepts the letter attached hereto or such other date as is agreed among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the [increasing] [new] Lender.
The Borrower certifies that (A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement will be correct on the date of the increase requested hereby, before and after giving effect to such increase, as though made on and as of such date; and (B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or shall have occurred and be continuing as of the date of the increase requested hereby, that constitutes an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default.
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent
under the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies/Gentlemen:
Please refer to the letter dated             , 20     from Exelon Corporation (the "") requesting an increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount from $            to $            pursuant to Section 2.18 of the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 among the Borrower, various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the respective meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
The undersigned hereby confirms that it has agreed to increase its Commitment Amount under the Credit Agreement from $            to $            effective on the date which is three Business Days after the acceptance hereof by the Administrative Agent or on such other date as may be agreed among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the undersigned.
 
Accepted as of
            , 20    
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,
  as Administrative Agent
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent
under the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies/Gentlemen:
Please refer to the letter dated             , 20    from Exelon Corporation (the "") requesting an increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount from $            to $            pursuant to Section 2.18 of the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 among the Borrower, various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the respective meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
The undersigned hereby confirms that it has agreed to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement with a Commitment Amount of $            effective on the date which is three Business Days after the acceptance hereof, and consent hereto, by the Administrative Agent or on such other date as may be agreed among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the undersigned.
The undersigned (a) acknowledges that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement and the Schedules and Exhibits thereto, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit and legal analysis and decision to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement; and (b) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit and legal decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement.
The undersigned represents and warrants that (i) it is duly organized and existing and it has full power and authority to take, and has taken, all action necessary to execute and deliver this letter and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement; and (ii) no notices to, or consents, authorizations or approvals of, any Person are required (other than any already given or obtained) for its due execution and delivery of this letter and the performance of its obligations as a Lender under the Credit Agreement.
The undersigned agrees to execute and deliver such other instruments, and take such other actions, as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request in connection with the transactions contemplated by this letter.
The following administrative details apply to the undersigned:
 
 
 
 
The undersigned acknowledges and agrees that, on the date on which the undersigned becomes a Lender under the Credit Agreement as set forth in the second paragraph hereof, the undersigned will be bound by the terms of the Credit Agreement as fully and to the same extent as if the undersigned were an original Lender under the Credit Agreement.
 
Accepted as of
            , 20    
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,
  as Administrative Agent
 
 
                    , 20    
Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Corporation (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), the undersigned, being                     of the Borrower, hereby certifies on behalf of the Borrower as follows:
1. [Delivered] [Posted concurrently]* herewith are the financial statements prepared pursuant to Section 5.01(b)[(ii)/(iii)] of the Credit Agreement for the fiscal             ended             , 20    . All such financial statements comply with the applicable requirements of the Credit Agreement.
*Applicable language to be used based on method of delivery.
2. Schedule I hereto sets forth in reasonable detail the information and calculations necessary to establish the Borrower's compliance with the provisions of Section 5.02(c) of the Credit Agreement as of the end of the fiscal period referred to in paragraph 1 above.
3. (Check one and only one:)
No Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
    
An Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and the document(s) attached hereto as Schedule II specify in detail the nature and period of existence of such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default as well as any and all actions with respect thereto taken or contemplated to be taken by the Borrower.
    
4. The undersigned has personally reviewed the Credit Agreement, and this certificate was based on an examination made by or under the supervision of the undersigned sufficient to assure that this certificate is accurate.
5. Capitalized terms used in this certificate and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given in the Credit Agreement.
 
Date:
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Corporation (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement").
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the Advances and interests in Facility LCs in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (v) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with a certificate of its non-U.S. person status on United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
 
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Corporation (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement").
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the Advances and interests in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such interests in Facility LCs, (iii) with respect to the extension of credit pursuant to the Agreement, neither the undersigned nor any of its partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (v) none of its partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code, and (vi) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's or its partners/members' conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY accompanied by a United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN from each of its partners/members claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
 
Date:                  , 20[    ]
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Corporation (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement").
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code, and (v) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with a certificate of its non-U.S. person status on United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender in writing and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
 
Date:                     , 20[    ]
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Corporation (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement").
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such participation, (iii) with respect such participation, neither the undersigned nor any of its partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (v) none of its partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code, and (vi) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's or its partners/members' conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY accompanied by a United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN from each of its partners/members claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
 
Date:                  , 20[    ]

Exhibit 4.6
Execution Version
This Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement (this "") is entered into as of December 21, 2011 by and among Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the ""), JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., individually and as administrative agent (the ""), and the other financial institutions signatory hereto (the "").
Amendment
Borrower
Administrative Agent
Lenders
A. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders are party to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""). Unless otherwise specified herein, capitalized terms used in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed to them by the Existing Credit Agreement.
Existing Credit Agreement
B. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders wish to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (the ""), subject to the terms and conditions hereof.
Restated Credit Agreement
C. The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the undersigned Lenders are willing to enter into this Amendment on the terms and conditions set forth below.
Now, therefore, in consideration for the mutual execution hereof and other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. . The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agree that the Existing Credit Agreement shall be amended and restated on the Restatement Effective Date (as defined below), such that on the Restatement Effective Date the terms set forth in Exhibit A hereto shall replace the terms of the Existing Credit Agreement. As used in the Restated Credit Agreement, the terms "Agreement", "this Agreement", "herein", "hereinafter", "hereto", "hereof", and words of similar import shall, unless the context otherwise requires, mean, from and after the replacement of the terms of the Existing Credit Agreement by the terms of the Restated Credit Agreement, the Restated Credit Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as of the Amendment Effective Date (as defined below), Section 2.16 of the Existing Credit Agreement and the relevant definitions referenced therein shall be amended and replaced with the terms set forth in Section 2.16 (and the relevant definitions referenced therein) of the Restated Credit Agreement.
Amendment and Restatement of Existing Credit Agreement
2. . The Borrower represents and warrants that:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
(a) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment are within the Borrower's powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational action on the part of the Borrower, and do not and will not contravene (i) the organizational documents of the Borrower, (ii) applicable law or (iii) any contractual or legal restriction binding on or affecting the properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
(b) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment, except any order that has been duly obtained and is (i) in full force and effect and (ii) sufficient for the purposes hereof.
(c) This Amendment has been duly executed by the Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by equitable principles or bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
(d) Each of the representations and warranties contained in the Existing Credit Agreement is true and correct on and as of the date hereof as if made on the date hereof.
(e) No Unmatured Event of Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
3. . (x) This Amendment will become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof duly executed by the Borrower and the Majority Lenders (the ""), and (y) the Restated Credit Agreement shall become effective as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent are satisfied:
Effectiveness
Amendment Effective Date
Restatement Effective Date
(a) The acquisition by Exelon Corporation of Constellation Energy Group, Inc. pursuant to a transaction in which Constellation Energy Group, Inc. will become a wholly-owned direct or indirect subsidiary of Exelon Corporation (the "") shall have occurred and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate (the statements in which shall be true), dated the Restatement Effective Date and signed by Chief Financial Officer or Treasurer of the Borrower, confirming that (i) the Merger has occurred (or will occur substantially simultaneously upon the occurrence of the Restatement Effective Date), (ii) the representations of the Borrower set forth in the Restated Credit Agreement are true and correct on such date, and (iii) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default (in each case, as defined in the Restated Credit Agreement) has occurred and is continuing on such date.
Merger
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received satisfactory evidence that the representations, warranties, covenants and events of default in the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2010, among Constellation Energy Group, Inc., various financial institutions as lenders and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (as amended or amended and restated as of the Restatement Effective Date) conform substantially to the comparable provisions in the Restated Credit Agreement.
4. .
Reference to and Effect Upon the Existing Credit Agreement
(a) Except as specifically amended and supplemented hereby, the Existing Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect to the extent in effect immediately prior to this Amendment and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
(b) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower or any Lender under the Existing Credit Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Existing Credit Agreement, except as specifically set forth herein.
(c) The provisions set forth in , , and of the Existing Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Amendment .
Sections 8.04
8.09
8.10
8.13
mutatis mutandis
 
5. . The Borrower hereby affirms its obligation under Section 8.04 of the Existing Credit Agreement to reimburse the Administrative Agent for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Amendment, including but not limited to the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of attorneys for the Administrative Agent with respect thereto.
Costs and Expenses
6. .
Governing Law.
THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
7. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Amendment. Delivery of an executed counterpart hereof, or a signature page hereto, by facsimile or other electronic transmittal shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts
8. . This Amendment shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
Final Version
Exhibit A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of March 23, 2011 is among EXELON GENERATION COMPANY, LLC, the banks and other financial institutions or entities listed on the signature pages hereof, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent. The parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01 . As used in this Agreement, each of the following terms shall have the meaning set forth below (each such meaning to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the term defined):
Certain Defined Terms
"", when used in reference to any Advance or Borrowing, refers to such Advance, or the Advances comprising such Borrowing, bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means, for any period, Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities for such period Interest Expense for such period the portion (but not less than zero) of Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities for such period attributable to any consolidated Subsidiary that has no Debt other than Nonrecourse Indebtedness.
Adjusted Funds From Operations
plus
minus
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Advance for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
" means JPMCB in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders pursuant to , and not in its individual capacity as a Lender, and any successor Administrative Agent appointed pursuant to .
"Administrative Agent
Article VII
Section 7.06
"" means an administrative questionnaire, substantially in the form supplied by the Administrative Agent, completed by a Lender and furnished to the Administrative Agent in connection with this Agreement.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower hereunder. An Advance may be a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Advance, each of which shall be a "" of Advance.
Advance
Type
"" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or officer of such Person.
Affiliate
"" means the Administrative Agent, the Co-Documentation Agents and the Syndication Agent; and "" means any one of the foregoing.
Agents
Agent
"" means the total of the Commitment Amounts of all Lenders as in effect from time to time.
Aggregate Commitment Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Agreement Currency
Section 8.15(b)
 
"" means a fluctuating rate of interest equal to the highest of (a) the Prime Rate, (b) the federal funds effective rate from time to time plus 0.5% and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) plus 1%, that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters Page LIBOR01 (or on any successor or substitute page of such page) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day. Any change in the ABR due to a change in the Prime Rate, the federal funds effective rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the federal funds effective rate or the Adjusted LIBO Rate, respectively.
Alternate Base Rate
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Applicable Creditor
Section 8.15(b)
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Advance.
Applicable Lending Office
"" - see .
Applicable Margin
Schedule I
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Approved Fund
Section 8.07(a)
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of .
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit A
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Administrative Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment, that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest in, or the acquisition of any ownership interest in or the exercise of control over, such Person or its parent company by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof, , , that such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
Bankruptcy Event
provided
provided
further
"" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in .
Base Rate Advance
Section 2.06(a)
"" means Exelon Generation Company, LLC or any Eligible Successor thereof.
Borrower
"" means a group of Advances of the same Type made, continued or converted on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their Pro Rata Shares and, in the case of a Borrowing of Eurodollar Advances, having the same Interest Period.
Borrowing
"" means a day on which banks are not required or authorized to close in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Chicago, Illinois or New York, New York, and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Advance, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
"" means that (i) at any time that Exelon owns (directly or indirectly) less than a majority of the membership interests or capital stock (as applicable) of the Borrower, any person, entity
Change in Control
 
or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), excluding Exelon, shall beneficially own, directly or indirectly, 30% or more of the membership interests or capital stock (as applicable) of the Borrower having ordinary voting power; or (ii) at any time after the Borrower has a Board of Directors or similar governing body (a ""), Continuing Directors shall fail to constitute a majority of the Board of the Borrower. For purposes of the foregoing, "" means an individual who (x) is elected or appointed to be a member of the Board of the Borrower by Exelon or an affiliate of Exelon at a time when Exelon owns (directly or indirectly) a majority of the membership interests or capital stock (as applicable) of the Borrower or (y) is nominated to be a member of such Board by a majority of the Continuing Directors then in office.
Board
Continuing Director
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule, regulation or treaty after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of , by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement; that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (ii) all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law", regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
Change in Law
Section 2.12(b)
provided
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" means each of BNP Paribas, Citibank, N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in its capacity as a co-documentation agent hereunder.
Co-Documentation Agent
"" means each of Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc in its capacity as a co-syndication agent hereunder.
Co-Syndication Agent
"" means Commonwealth Edison Company, an Illinois corporation, or any successor thereof.
ComEd
"" means ComEd and each of its Subsidiaries.
ComEd Entity
"" means, for any Lender, such Lender's commitment to make Advances and participate in Facility LCs hereunder.
Commitment
"" means, for any Lender at any time, the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on attached hereto or, if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Assumption, set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Administrative Agent pursuant to , as such amount may be reduced pursuant to or increased pursuant to .
Commitment Amount
Schedule II
Section 8.07(c)
Section 2.04
Section 2.18
"" means the obligations of the Borrower under (i) any commodity swap agreement, commodity future agreement, commodity option agreement, commodity cap agreement, commodity floor agreement, commodity collar agreement, commodity hedge agreement, commodity forward contract or derivative transaction and any put, call or other agreement, arrangement
Commodity Trading Obligations
 
or transaction, including natural gas, power, electric energy, emissions forward contracts, renewable energy credits, or any combination of any such arrangements, agreements and/or transactions, employed in the ordinary course of the Borrower's business, including the Borrower's energy marketing, trading and asset optimization business, or (ii) any commodity swap agreement, commodity future agreement, commodity option agreement, commodity cap agreement, commodity floor agreement, commodity collar agreement, commodity hedge agreement, commodity forward contract or derivative transaction and any put, call or other agreement or arrangement, or combination thereof (including an agreement or arrangement to hedge foreign exchange risks) in respect of commodities entered into by the Borrower pursuant to asset optimization and risk management policies and procedures adopted pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of Directors of the Borrower or Exelon. The term "commodities" shall include electric energy and/or capacity, transmission rights, coal, petroleum, natural gas liquids, natural gas, fuel transportation rights, emissions allowances, weather derivatives and related products and by-products and ancillary services.
"" shall have the meaning specified in .
Communication
Section 5.01(b)
"" means Constellation Energy Group, Inc.
Constellation
"" shall mean Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, LLC, a Maryland limited liability company.
Constellation Nuclear
"" shall mean Constellation Nuclear, LLC, CE Nuclear, LLC and Constellation Nuclear and its Subsidiaries.
Constellation Nuclear Entity
"" means each person (as defined in Section 3(9) of ERISA) that, together with the Borrower, would be deemed to be a "single employer" within the meaning of Section 414(b) or 414(c) of the Code.
Controlled Group
"" means the making of an Advance or the issuance or modification of a Facility LC hereunder.
Credit Extension
"" means, on any date of determination (a) with respect to any amount in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount in any Foreign Currency, the equivalent in Dollars of such amount, determined by the Administrative Agent or the applicable LC Issuer pursuant to Section 1.05 using the Exchange Rate with respect to such Foreign Currency at the time in effect under the provisions of such Section.
Dollar Equivalent
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" means (i) indebtedness for borrowed money, (ii) obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business), (iv) obligations as lessee under leases that shall have been or are required to be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (v) obligations (contingent or otherwise) under reimbursement or similar agreements with respect to the issuance of letters of credit (other than obligations in respect of documentary letters of credit opened to provide for the payment of goods or services purchased in the ordinary course of business) and (vi) obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to in  through  above.
Debt
clauses (i)
(v)
 
""  see .
Declining Lender
Section 2.17.2
"" means any Lender, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, that has (a) failed to fund any portion of its Advances or participations in Facility LCs within three Business Days after the date required to be funded by it hereunder, unless the subject of a good faith dispute of which such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent, (b) notified the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, an LC Issuer or any Lender in writing that it does not intend to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement or has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations under this Agreement, (c) failed, within three Business Days after written request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm that it will comply with the terms of this Agreement relating to its obligations to fund prospective Advances and participations in then outstanding Facility LCs; that any such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender under this clause (c) upon receipt of such confirmation by the Administrative Agent, (d) otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within three Business Days after the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute of which such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent, or (e) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event, unless, in the case of any Lender referred to in this clause (e), the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each LC Issuer shall determine in their sole and absolute discretion that such Lender intends and has all approvals to continue to perform its obligations as a Lender hereunder in accordance with all of the terms of this Agreement.
Defaulting Lender
provided
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
"" means the date on which all conditions precedent set forth in have been satisfied.
Effective Date
Section 3.01
"" means (i) a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof; (ii) a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country that is a member of the OECD or has concluded special lending arrangements with the International Monetary Fund associated with its "General Arrangements to Borrow", or a political subdivision of any such country, that such bank is acting through a branch or agency located in the United States; (iii) a finance company, insurance company or other financial institution or fund (whether a corporation, partnership or other entity) engaged generally in making, purchasing or otherwise investing in commercial loans in the ordinary course of its business; (iv) the central bank of any country that is a member of the OECD; (v) any Lender; or (vi) any Affiliate (excluding any individual) of a Lender; that, unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in their sole discretion, (A) any Person described in ,  or  above shall also (x) have outstanding unsecured long-term debt that is rated BBB- or better by S&P and Baa3 or better by Moody's (or an equivalent rating by another nationally recognized credit rating agency of similar standing if either such corporation is no longer in the business of rating unsecured indebtedness of entities engaged in such businesses) and (y) have combined capital and surplus (as established in its most recent report of condition to its primary regulator) of not less than $100,000,000 (or its equivalent in foreign currency), and (B) any Person described in , ,  or  above shall, on the date on which it is to become a Lender hereunder, be entitled to receive payments hereunder without deduction or withholding of any United States Federal income taxes (as contemplated by ). In no event shall an Eligible Assignee include the Borrower or an Affiliate thereof.
Eligible Assignee
provided
provided
clause (i)
(ii)
(iii)
clause (ii)
(iii)
(iv), (v)
(vi)
Section 2.14(e)
 
"" means a Person that (i) is a corporation, limited liability company or business trust duly incorporated or organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of one of the states of the United States or the District of Columbia, (ii) as a result of a contemplated acquisition, consolidation or merger, will succeed to all or substantially all of the consolidated business and assets of the Borrower or Exelon, as applicable, (iii) upon giving effect to such contemplated acquisition, consolidation or merger, will have all or substantially all of its consolidated business and assets conducted and located in the United States and (iv) in the case of the Borrower, is acceptable to the Majority Lenders as a credit matter.
Eligible Successor
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
"" means any Advance that bears interest as provided in .
Eurodollar Advance
Section 2.06(b)
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
"" - see .
Event of Default
Section 6.01
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
"" means, with respect to any payment made by the Borrower under this Agreement, any of the following Taxes imposed on or with respect to a Recipient: (a) income or franchise Taxes imposed on (or measured by) net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or by any other jurisdiction as a result of a present or former connection between such Lender and such jurisdiction (other than any such connection arising as a result of such Lender having executed, delivered or become a party to, performed its obligations or received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to, or enforced, this Agreement) or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits Taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar Taxes imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any U.S. Federal withholding Taxes resulting from any law in effect (including FATCA) on the date such Non-U.S. Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Non-U.S. Lender's failure to comply with , except to the extent that such Non-U.S. Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding Taxes pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 2.18(b)
Section 2.14(f)
Section 2.14(a)
"" means Exelon Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, or any Eligible Successor thereof.
Exelon
"" means on any day, for purposes of determining the Dollar Equivalent of any currency other than Dollars, the rate at which such currency may be exchanged into Dollars at the time of determination on such day on the Reuters Currency pages, if available, for such currency. In the event that such rate does not appear on any Reuters Currency pages, the Exchange Rate shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, or, in the absence of such an agreement, such Exchange Rate shall instead be the arithmetic average of the spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent in the
Exchange Rate
 
market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such currency are then being conducted, at or about such time as the Administrative Agent shall elect after determining that such rates shall be the basis for determining the Exchange Rate, on such date for the purchase of Dollars for delivery two Business Days later; provided that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Exchange Rate in respect of a payment made by an LC Issuer on a Facility LC denominated in a Foreign Currency issued by such LC Issuer, the Exchange Rate shall be determined by such LC Issuer (with notice to the Administrative Agent) in accordance with the exchange rate procedures customarily used by such LC Issuer on the date payment is made by such LC Issuer.
"" means, if on such date any outstanding Facility LC is (or any Facility LC that has been requested at such time would be) denominated in a currency other than Dollars, each of:
Exchange Rate Date
(a) the last Business Day of each calendar month,
(b) if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any Business Day designated as an Exchange Rate Date by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion,
(c) each date (with such date to be reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent) that is on or about the date of (i) a Borrowing Request or a notice of a continuation or conversion pursuant to Section 2.09 or (ii) each request for the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Facility LC, and
(d) any other Business Day designated as an Exchange Rate Date by the Administrative Agent upon request of an LC Issuer of outstanding Facility LCs denominated in a currency other than Dollars.
"" means the credit facility evidenced by that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of October 26, 2006, by and among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto, and JPMCB, as administrative agent, as amended.
Existing Credit Facility
"" means each letter of credit issued by an LC Issuer and specified by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent on the Effective Date.
Existing Letter of Credit
""see .
Exiting Lender
Section 2.17.7
""see .
Facility Fee Rate
Schedule I
"" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to and any Existing Letter of Credit.
Facility LC
Section 2.16
""see .
Facility LC Application
Section 2.16.3
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement, and any regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or,
Federal Funds Rate
 
if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
"" means, Fitch, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Fitch
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by Fitch and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement (it being understood that if the Borrower does not have any outstanding debt securities of the type described above but has an indicative rating from Fitch for debt securities of such type, then such indicative rating shall be used for determining the "Fitch Rating").
Fitch Rating
"" means, with respect to any Facility LC, any currency acceptable to the Administrative Agent that is freely available, freely transferable and freely convertible into Dollars, and agreed to by the LC Issuer issuing such Facility LC.
Foreign Currency
""see .
GAAP
Section 1.03
"" means the government of the United States of America or any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
""see .
Granting Bank
Section 8.07(i)
"" mean, with respect to any Person, the obligations of such Person under any interest rate or currency swap agreement, interest rate or currency future agreement, interest rate collar agreement, interest rate or currency hedge agreement, and any put, call or other agreement or arrangement designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates.
Hedging Obligations
"" means (a) Taxes, other than Excluded Taxes, imposed on or with respect to any payment made by the Borrower under this Agreement, and (b) Other Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters of the Borrower, the ratio of Adjusted Funds From Operations for such period to Net Interest Expense for such period.
Interest Coverage Ratio
"" means, for any period, "interest expense" as shown on a consolidated statement of income of the Borrower for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
"" means, for each Eurodollar Advance, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Advance is made or is converted from a Base Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be 14 days or 1, 2, 3 or 6 months, as the Borrower may select in accordance with or ; that:
Interest Period
Section 2.02
2.09
provided
 
(i) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after the latest scheduled Termination Date;
(ii) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Advances made as part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
(iii) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, unless such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, in which case the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day;
(iv) if there is no day in the appropriate calendar month at the end of such Interest Period numerically corresponding to the first day of such Interest Period, then such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such appropriate calendar month; and
(v) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period for an Advance if, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate principal amount of all Eurodollar Advances that have Interest Periods ending after the next scheduled Termination Date for any Exiting Lender plus the stated amount of all Facility LCs that have scheduled expiry dates after such Termination Date would exceed the remainder of (a) the Aggregate Commitment minus (b) the aggregate amount of the Commitments that are scheduled to terminate on such Termination Date.
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means each of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays Bank PLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc. in its capacity as a Joint Active Lead Arranger.
Joint Active Lead Arranger
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association.
JPMCB
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Judgment Currency
Section 8.15(b)
""see .
LC Fee Rate
Schedule I
"" means each of JPMCB, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, BNP Paribas, Citibank, N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Union Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and any other Lender that, with the consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, agrees to issue Facility LCs hereunder, in each case in its capacity as the issuer of the applicable Facility LCs.
LC Issuer
"" means, at any time, the sum, without duplication, of (i) the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate undrawn stated amount under all Facility LCs outstanding at such time plus (ii) the aggregate unpaid amount at such time of all Reimbursement Obligations. The LC Obligations of any Lender at any time shall be its Pro Rata Share of the total LC Obligations at such time.
LC Obligations
""see .
LC Payment Date
Section 2.16.5
 
"" means the percentage equal to one (1) divided by the total number of LC Issuers.
LC Pro Rata Share
"" means the Dollar Equivalent of $3,500,000,000; provided that the Dollar Equivalent of all Facility LCs denominated in a Foreign Currency shall not exceed $135,000,000.
LC Sublimit
"" means each of the financial institutions listed on the signature pages hereof and each Eligible Assignee that shall become a party hereto pursuant to .
Lenders
Section 8.07
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Advance for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Reuters Page LIBOR01 (or on any successor or substitute page of such page providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurodollar Advance for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
"" means any lien (statutory or other), mortgage, pledge, security interest or other charge or encumbrance, or any other type of preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest (including the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale, capitalized lease or other title retention agreement).
Lien
"" means Lenders having Pro Rata Shares of more than 50% ( that, for purposes of this definition, neither the Borrower nor any of its Affiliates, if a Lender, shall be included in calculating the amount of any Lender's Pro Rata Share or the amount of the Commitment Amounts or Outstanding Credit Extensions, as applicable, required to constitute more than 50% of the Pro Rata Shares).
Majority Lenders
provided
"" and "" each means, relative to any occurrence, fact or circumstances of whatsoever nature (including any determination in any litigation, arbitration or governmental investigation or proceeding), (i) any materially adverse change in, or materially adverse effect on, the financial condition, operations, assets or business of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, that, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the assertion against the Borrower or any Subsidiary of liability for any obligation arising under ERISA for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary bore joint and several liability with any ComEd Entity, or the payment by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of any such obligation, shall not be considered in determining whether a Material Adverse Change or Material Adverse Effect has occurred); or (ii) any materially adverse effect on the validity or enforceability against the Borrower of this Agreement.
Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Effect
provided
"" and ""see .
Modify
Modification
Section 2.16.1
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by Moody's and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement (it being understood that if the Borrower does not have any outstanding debt securities of
Moody's Rating
 
the type described above but has an indicative rating from Moody's for debt securities of such type, then such indicative rating shall be used for determining the "Moody's Rating").
"" means a Plan that meets the definition in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, for any period, "Net Cash Flows provided by Operating Activities" as shown on a consolidated statement of cash flows of the Borrower for such period prepared in accordance with GAAP, any "Changes in assets and liabilities" (as shown on such statement of cash flows) taken into account in determining such Net Cash Flows provided by Operating Activities.
Net Cash Flows From Operating Activities
excluding
"" means, for any period, Interest Expense for such period interest on Nonrecourse Indebtedness.
Net Interest Expense
minus
"" means any Debt that finances the acquisition, development, ownership or operation of an asset in respect of which the Person to which such Debt is owed has no recourse whatsoever to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates other than:
Nonrecourse Indebtedness
(i) recourse to the named obligor with respect to such Debt (the "") for amounts limited to the cash flow or net cash flow (other than historic cash flow) from the asset;
Debtor
(ii) recourse to the Debtor for the purpose only of enabling amounts to be claimed in respect of such Debt in an enforcement of any security interest or lien given by the Debtor over the asset or the income, cash flow or other proceeds deriving from the asset (or given by any shareholder or the like in the Debtor over its shares or like interest in the capital of the Debtor) to secure the Debt, but only if the extent of the recourse to the Debtor is limited solely to the amount of any recoveries made on any such enforcement; and
(iii) recourse to the Debtor generally or indirectly to any Affiliate of the Debtor, under any form of assurance, undertaking or support, which recourse is limited to a claim for damages (other than liquidated damages and damages required to be calculated in a specified way) for a breach of an obligation (other than a payment obligation or an obligation to comply or to procure compliance by another with any financial ratios or other tests of financial condition) by the Person against which such recourse is available.
"" means a Lender that is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Lender
""see .
Notice of Borrowing
Section 2.02(a)
"" means the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
OECD
"" means, with respect to any Recipient, Taxes imposed as a result of a present or former connection between such Recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Taxes (other than a connection arising from such Recipient having executed, delivered, enforced, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, or engaged in any other transaction pursuant to this Agreement or sold or assigned an interest in this Agreement.
Other Connection Taxes
 
"" means any present or future stamp, court, documentary, intangible, recording, filing or similar excise or property Taxes that arise from any payment made under, from the execution, delivery, performance, enforcement or registration of, or from the registration, receipt or perfection of a security interest under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement, except any such Taxes that are Other Connection Taxes imposed with respect to an assignment (other than an assignment under ).
Other Taxes
Section 8.07(g)
"" means the sum of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Advances plus all LC Obligations.
Outstanding Credit Extensions
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Participant
Section 8.07(e)
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Participant Register
Section 8.07(e)
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
"" means (a) any right reserved to or vested in any municipality or other governmental or public authority (i) by the terms of any right, power, franchise, grant (including, without limitation, any financial assistance grant), license or permit granted or issued to the Borrower or (ii) to purchase or recapture or to designate a purchaser of any property of the Borrower; (b) any easement, restriction, exception or reservation in any property and/or right of way of the Borrower for the purposes of roads, pipelines, transmission lines, distribution lines, transportation lines or removal of minerals or timber or for other like purposes or for the joint or common use of real property, rights of way, facilities and/or equipment, and defects, irregularities and deficiencies in title of any property and/or rights of way, which, in each case described in this , whether considered individually or collectively with all other items described in this , do not materially impair the use of the relevant property and/or rights of way for the purposes for which such property and/or rights of way are held by the Borrower; (c) rights reserved to or vested in any municipality or other Governmental Authority to control or regulate any property of the Borrower or to use such property in a manner that does not materially impair the use of such property for the purposes for which it is held by the Borrower; and (d) obligations or duties of the Borrower to any municipality or other Governmental Authority that arise out of any franchise, grant, license or permit and that affect any property of the Borrower (including, without limitation, obligations with respect to nuclear waste disposal and related arrangements).
Permitted Encumbrance
clause (b)
clause (b)
"" mean (1) Hedging Obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary arising in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with the applicable Person's established risk management policies that are designed to protect such Person against, among other things, fluctuations in interest rates or currency exchange rates and which in the case of agreements relating to interest rates shall have a notional amount no greater than the payments due with respect to the applicable obligations being hedged and (2) Commodity Trading Obligations.
Permitted Obligations
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
"" means an employee pension benefit plan that is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code as to which the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group has or may have any liability (including contingent liability).
Plan
 
"" means a rate per annum equal to the prime rate of interest announced by JPMCB as its prime rate (which is not necessarily the lowest rate charged to any customer) in effect at its principal office in New York City.
Prime Rate
"" means each Subsidiary, other than, except as provided in the proviso below, any Constellation Nuclear Entity, (i) the consolidated assets of which, as of the date of any determination thereof, constitute at least 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower (after giving effect to the acquisition of Constellation by Exelon and any related transfer of assets to the Borrower) or (ii) the consolidated earnings before taxes of which constitute at least 10% of the consolidated earnings before taxes of the Borrower for the most recently completed fiscal year (and, in the case of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, after giving pro forma effect to the acquisition of Constellation by Exelon and any related transfer of assets to the Borrower); , that, regardless of whether Constellation Nuclear or any of its Subsidiaries is a consolidated Subsidiary of the Borrower, (A) the Constellation Nuclear Entities shall be subject to being tested as Principal Subsidiaries under clauses (i) and (ii) above only at any time that the Borrower shall own, directly or indirectly through one or more other Subsidiaries, 51% or more of the outstanding capital stock (or other comparable interest) of Constellation Nuclear having ordinary voting power (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock, or comparable interests, of any other class or classes of such corporation or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), and (B) the assets and earnings of Constellation Nuclear and its Subsidiaries shall be included in the computation of the 10% tests set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) above, as applicable, only to the extent of the Borrower's proportional equity interest in Constellation Nuclear.
Principal Subsidiary
provided
"" means, with respect to a Lender, the percentage that such Lender's Commitment Amount is of the Aggregate Commitment Amount (disregarding, in the case of when a Defaulting Lender exists, any Defaulting Lender's Commitment Amount); that if, pursuant to , an Exiting Lender is not paid in full on, or retains participations in Facility LCs after, its scheduled Termination Date, so long as the Termination Date for all other Lenders has not occurred, such Exiting Lender's "Pro Rata Share" shall be (a) for purposes of determining the Majority Lenders, an amount equal to the principal amount of its outstanding Advances plus the amount of its participations in Facility LCs; (b) for purposes of determining (i) the amount of such Exiting Lender's share of a requested Borrowing or (ii) such Exiting Lender's participation in any Facility LC that is issued, or in any increase in the stated amount of any Facility LC that occurs, after such Exiting Lender's Termination Date, zero; and (c) for purposes of determining the allocation of any payment by the Borrower among the Lenders, the percentage that the amount (if any) of principal, Reimbursement Obligations, interest and fees or other amounts of the type being paid that is owed by the Borrower to such Exiting Lender hereunder is of the aggregate amount of principal, Reimbursement Obligations, interest, fees or other amounts of the type being paid that is owed by the Borrower to all Lenders (including all Exiting Lenders) hereunder. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Pro Rata Shares shall be determined based upon the Commitment Amounts most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments and to any Lender's status as a Defaulting Lender at the time of determination.
Pro Rata Share
Section 2.19
provided
Section 2.17.7
then
"" means, as applicable, (a) the Administrative Agent, (b) any Lender and (c) any LC Issuer.
Recipient
""see .
Register
Section 8.07(c)
"" means the Dollar Equivalent of the outstanding obligations of the Borrower under to reimburse an LC Issuer for amounts paid by such LC Issuer in respect of any drawing under a Facility LC.
Reimbursement Obligations
Section 2.16
 
"" means a reportable event as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and regulations issued under such Section with respect to a Single Employer Plan, excluding such events as to which the requirement of Section 4043(a) of ERISA that the PBGC be notified within 30 days after the occurrence of such event is waived under PBGC Regulation Section 4043, that a failure to meet the minimum funding standard of Section 412 of the Code and Section 302 of ERISA shall be a Reportable Event regardless of the issuance of any such waivers in accordance with either Section 4043(a) of ERISA or Section 412(c) of the Code.
Reportable Event
provided
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Advances and its LC Obligations at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC business, and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by S&P and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement (it being understood that if the Borrower does not have any outstanding debt securities of the type described above but has an indicative rating from S&P for debt securities of such type, then such indicative rating shall be used for determining the "S&P Rating").
S&P Rating
"" means a Plan other than a Multiemployer Plan maintained by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group for employees of the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group.
Single Employer Plan
""see .
SPC
Section 8.07(i)
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Federal Reserve Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject, with respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Federal Reserve Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Advances shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or unincorporated entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock (or comparable interest) having ordinary voting power (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock, or comparable interests, of any other class or classes of such corporation or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person (whether directly or through one or more other Subsidiaries). Unless otherwise indicated, each reference to a "Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means any present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
 
"" means, for any Lender, the earlier of (i) the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date (subject to extension as provided in ) or (ii) the date on which such Lender's Commitment is terminated or reduced to zero in accordance with the terms hereof.
Termination Date
Section 2.17
""see the definition of Advance.
Type
"" means, (i) in the case of any Single Employer Plan, the amount (if any) by which the present value of all vested nonforfeitable benefits under such Plan exceeds the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such benefits, all determined as of the then most recent actuarial valuation date for such Plan using the actuarial assumptions set forth in the most recent actuarial valuation report for such Single Employer Plan, and (ii) in the case of any Multiemployer Plan, the Withdrawal Liability that would be incurred by the Controlled Group if all members of the Controlled Group completely withdrew from such Multiemployer Plan.
Unfunded Liabilities
"" means any event which (if it continues uncured) will, with lapse of time or notice or both, become an Event of Default.
Unmatured Event of Default
"" means a "United States" person within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
U.S. Tax Certificate
Section 2.14(f)(ii)(D)(2)
"" shall have the meaning specified in Part 1 of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
"" means the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Withholding Agent
SECTION 1.02 . In this Agreement, (a) in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each means "to but excluding"; (b) the term "including" means "including without limitation"; and (c) unless otherwise indicated, (i) any reference to an , , or means an Article or Section hereof or an Exhibit or Schedule hereto; (ii) any reference to a time of day means such time in Chicago, Illinois; (iii) any reference to a law or regulation means such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time and includes all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, replacing or interpreting such law or regulation; and (d) any reference to an agreement, instrument or other document means such agreement, instrument or other document as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. Except as expressly provided herein, all amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder shall be in Dollars.
Other Interpretive Provisions
Article
Section
Exhibit
Schedule
SECTION 1.03 .
Accounting Principles
(a) As used in this Agreement, "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, applied on a basis consistent with the principles used in preparing the Borrower's audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 and for the fiscal year then ended, as such principles may be revised as a result of changes in GAAP implemented by the Borrower subsequent to such date. In this Agreement, except to the extent, if any, otherwise provided herein, all accounting and financial terms shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms by GAAP, and all computations and determinations as to accounting and financial matters shall be made in accordance with GAAP. In the event that the financial statements generally prepared by the Borrower reflect a change in GAAP that affects the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth herein (as contemplated by ), the compliance certificate delivered pursuant to accompanying such financial
GAAP
Section 1.03(b)
Section 5.01(b)(iv)
 
statements shall include information in reasonable detail reconciling such financial statements which reflect such change in GAAP to financial information that does not reflect such change to the extent relevant to the calculations set forth in such compliance certificate.
(b) If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth herein and the Borrower or the Majority Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Majority Lenders); that, until so amended, such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein.
provided
(c) For purposes of any calculation or determination which is to be made on a consolidated basis (including compliance with ), such calculation or determination shall exclude any assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that are included in Borrower's financial statements from "variable interest entities" as a result of the application of FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, as updated through FIN No. 46-R and as modified by FIN No. 94.
Section 5.02(c)
SECTION 1.04 . For purposes of determining the stated amount of any Facility LC, (a) if a Facility LC provides for one or more automatic increases in the amount available to be drawn thereunder (as a result of lapse of time, the occurrence of certain events or otherwise), then the stated amount thereof shall be the maximum amount available to be drawn thereunder during the remaining term thereof assuming all such increases take effect, regardless of whether such maximum amount is then available; and (b) if a Facility LC has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of International Standby Practices 1998, then the stated amount of such Facility LC shall be deemed to be the amount remaining available to be drawn thereunder.
Letter of Credit Amounts
SECTION 1.05 . For purposes of determining the Dollar Equivalent of any Facility LC denominated in a Foreign Currency or any related amount, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Exchange Rate as of the applicable Exchange Rate Date with respect to each Foreign Currency in which any requested or outstanding Facility LC is denominated and shall apply such Exchange Rate to determine such amount; provided that the applicable LC Issuer (with notice to the Administrative Agent) shall determine the Exchange Rate with respect to any payment made by such LC Issuer in respect of a Facility LC denominated in a Foreign Currency.
Foreign Currency Calculations
SECTION 2.01 . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to (a) make Advances to the Borrower and (b) participate in Facility LCs issued upon the request of the Borrower, in each case from time to time during the period from the date hereof to such Lender's Termination Date, in an aggregate amount not to exceed such Lender's Commitment Amount as in effect from time to time; that (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances by such Lender to the Borrower shall not exceed such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the aggregate principal amount of all outstanding Advances; (ii) such Lender's participation in Facility LCs shall not exceed such Lender's Pro Rata Share of all LC Obligations; and (iii) the Outstanding Credit Extensions shall not at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitment Amount. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the other provisions hereof, the Borrower may from time to time borrow, prepay pursuant to and reborrow hereunder prior to the latest Termination Date.
Commitments
provided
Section 2.10
 
SECTION 2.02 .
Procedures for Advances; Limitations on Borrowings
(a) The Borrower may request Advances by giving notice (a "") to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly advise each Lender of its receipt thereof) not later than 10:00 A.M. on the third Business Day prior to the date of any proposed borrowing of Eurodollar Advances and on the date of any proposed borrowing of Base Rate Advances. Each Notice of Borrowing shall be sent by facsimile and shall be in substantially the form of , specifying therein (i) the requested date of borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the Type of Advances requested, (iii) the aggregate principal amount of the requested Advances and (iv) in the case of a borrowing of Eurodollar Advances, the initial Interest Period therefor. Each Lender shall, before 12:00 noon on the date of such borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Administrative Agent at its address referred to in , in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of the requested borrowing. After the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Administrative Agent's aforesaid address.
Notice of Borrowing
Exhibit B
Section 8.02
Article III
(b) Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. If a Notice of Borrowing requests Eurodollar Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure of the Borrower to fulfill on or before the requested borrowing date the applicable conditions set forth in , including any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the requested Advance to be made by such Lender.
Article III
(c) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the date of any requested borrowing (or, in the case of a borrowing of Base Rate Advances to be made on the same Business Day as the Administrative Agent's receipt of the relevant Notice of Borrowing, prior to 10:30 A.M. on such Business Day) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Administrative Agent on the requested borrowing date in accordance with and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Administrative Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances made in connection with such borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
Section 2.02(a)
(d) The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it on any borrowing date shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on such date, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make any Advance to be made by such other Lender.
(e) Each Borrowing of Base Rate Advances shall at all times be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000; and each Borrowing of Eurodollar Advances shall at all times be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Borrower may not have more than 20 Borrowings of Eurodollar Advances outstanding at any time.
 
SECTION 2.03 . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, a facility fee at a rate per annum equal to the Facility Fee Rate on such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Aggregate Commitment Amount (or, after such Lender's Termination Date, of the principal amount of all Outstanding Credit Extensions) for the period from the Effective Date to such Lender's Termination Date (or, if later, the date on which all obligations of the Borrower to such Lender hereunder have been paid in full and such Lender has no participation interests in any LC Obligations), payable on the last day of each March, June, September and December and on the such Lenders' Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand).
Facility Fee
SECTION 2.04 .
Reduction of Commitment Amounts
(a) The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least two Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, to ratably reduce the respective Commitment Amounts of the Lenders in accordance with their Pro Rata Shares; that the Aggregate Commitment Amount may not be reduced to an amount that is less than the Outstanding Credit Extensions; and , , that each partial reduction of the Commitment Amounts shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof. Any reduction of the Commitment Amounts pursuant to this shall be permanent, except as expressly provided otherwise herein.
provided
provided
further
Section 2.04
(b) The Borrower may at any time, upon at least two Business Days' notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Commitments so long as the Borrower concurrently pays all of its outstanding obligations hereunder.
SECTION 2.05 . The Borrower shall repay all outstanding Advances made by each Lender, and all other obligations of the Borrower to such Lender hereunder, on such Lender's Termination Date.
Repayment of Advances
SECTION 2.06 . The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, as follows:
Interest on Advances
(a) At all times such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate in effect from time to time the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, on the date such Base Rate Advance is converted to a Eurodollar Advance or paid in full and on such Lender's Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand).
plus
(b) At all times such Advance is a Eurodollar Advance, a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Adjusted LIBO Rate for each applicable Interest Period the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable on the last day of each Interest Period for such Eurodollar Advance (and, if any Interest Period for such Advance is six months, on the day that is three months after the first day of such Interest Period) or, if earlier, on the date such Eurodollar Advance is converted to a Base Rate Advance or paid in full and on such Lender's Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand).
plus
SECTION 2.07 . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Advance:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
 
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Majority Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Advances (or its Advances) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any notice that requests the conversion of any Advance to, or continuation of any Advance as, a Eurodollar Advance shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Notice of Borrowing requests a Eurodollar Advance, such Advance shall be made as a Base Rate Advance.
SECTION 2.08 .
Interest Rate Determination
(a) The Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of each applicable interest rate determined by the Administrative Agent for purposes of or .
Section 2.06(a)
(b)
(b) If, with respect to any Borrowing of Eurodollar Advances, the Majority Lenders notify the Administrative Agent that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Majority Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Advances for such Interest Period, the Administrative Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon
(i) each Eurodollar Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor (unless prepaid or converted to a Base Rate Advance prior to such day), convert into a Base Rate Advance, and
(ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, continue or convert into Eurodollar Advances shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
SECTION 2.09 .
Continuation and Conversion of Advances
(a) The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 A.M. on the third Business Day prior to the date of any proposed continuation of or conversion into Eurodollar Advances, and on the date of any proposed conversion into Base Rate Advances, and subject to the provisions of and , continue Eurodollar Advances for a new Interest Period or convert a Borrowing of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type; that any continuation of Eurodollar Advances or conversion of Eurodollar Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Advances, unless, in the case of such a conversion, the Borrower shall also reimburse the Lenders pursuant to on the date of such conversion. Each such notice of a continuation or conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such continuation or conversion, (ii) the Advances to be continued or converted, and (iii) in the case of continuation of or conversion into Eurodollar Advances, the duration of the Interest Period for such Advances.
Sections 2.08
2.12
provided
Section 8.04(b)
(b) If the Borrower fails to select the Type of any Advance or the duration of any Interest Period for any Borrowing of Eurodollar Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in and , the Administrative Agent will
Section 1.01
Section 2.09(a)
 
forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, convert into Base Rate Advances.
SECTION 2.10 . The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 A.M. at least three Business Days prior to any prepayment of Eurodollar Advances or on the date of any prepayment of Base Rate Advances, in each case stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given, the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amounts of the Advances made as part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; that (i) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount not less than $10,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000 in the case of any prepayment of Eurodollar Advances and $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000 in the case of any prepayment of Base Rate Advances ( that if the aggregate amount of Advances made pursuant to as a result of a drawing under a Facility LC is not $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000, then the next prepayment of Base Rate Advances shall be in an aggregate amount that causes the aggregate principal amount of all Base Rate Advances to be either (A) zero or (B) $5,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000) and (ii) in the case of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders pursuant to on the date of such prepayment.
Prepayments
provided
provided
Section 2.16
Section 8.04(b)
SECTION 2.11 . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or any LC Issuer;
(ii) impose on any Lender or any LC Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Advances made by such Lender or any Facility LC or participation therein; or
(iii) subject any Recipient to any Taxes (other than (A) Indemnified Taxes and (B) Other Connection Taxes on gross or net income, profits or revenue (including value-added or similar Taxes)) on its loans, loan principal, letters of credit, commitments, or other obligations, or its deposits, reserves, other liabilities or capital attributable thereto;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender or such other Recipient of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Advance (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Advance) or to increase the cost to such Lender, any LC Issuer or such other Recipient of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Facility LC or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender, such LC Issuer or such other Recipient hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender, such LC Issuer or such other Recipient, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender, such LC Issuer or other Recipient for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or any LC Issuer determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such LC Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such LC Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Advances made by, or participations in Facility LCs held by, such Lender, or the Facility LCs issued by such LC Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or such LC
 
Issuer or such Lender's or such LC Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such LC Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such LC Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such LC Issuer such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such LC Issuer or such Lender's or such LC Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender or an LC Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such LC Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or such LC Issuer the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or any LC Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such LC Issuer's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an LC Issuer pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 90 days prior to the date that such Lender or such LC Issuer notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or such LC Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor; , , that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 90-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof, that such demand is made within 90 days after the implementation of such retroactive Change in Law.
provided
provided
further
provided
SECTION 2.12 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Advances hereunder, (i) the obligation of such Lender to make, continue or convert Advances into Eurodollar Advances shall be suspended (subject to the following paragraph of this ) until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist and (ii) all Eurodollar Advances of such Lender then outstanding shall, on the last day of the then applicable Interest Period (or such earlier date as such Lender shall designate upon not less than five Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent), be automatically converted into Base Rate Advances.
Illegality
Section 2.12
If the obligation of any Lender to make, continue or convert into Eurodollar Advances has been suspended pursuant to the preceding paragraph, then, unless and until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, (i) all Advances that would otherwise be made by such Lender as Eurodollar Advances shall instead be made as Base Rate Advances and (ii) to the extent that Eurodollar Advances of such Lender have been converted into Base Rate Advances pursuant to the preceding paragraph or made instead as Base Rate Advances pursuant to the preceding , all payments and prepayments of principal that would have otherwise been applied to such Eurodollar Advances of such Lender shall be applied instead to such Base Rate Advances of such Lender.
clause (i)
SECTION 2.13 .
Payments and Computations
(a) The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder not later than 10:00 A.M. on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Administrative Agent at its address referred to in in same day funds without setoff, counterclaim or other deduction. The Administrative Agent will promptly
Section 8.02
 
thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal, interest, facility fees and letter of credit fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to , , or ) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Assumption and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to , from the effective date specified in such Assignment and Assumption, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments hereunder in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Assumption shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
Section 2.02(b)
2.11
2.14
8.04(b)
Section 8.07(d)
(b) The Borrower hereby authorizes each Lender, if and to the extent any payment owed to such Lender by the Borrower is not made when due hereunder, to charge from time to time against any of the Borrower's accounts with such Lender any amount so due. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower promptly after any such set-off and application made by such Lender, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application.
provided
(c) All computations of interest based on the Prime Rate shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all other computations of interest and of fees shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or fees are payable. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(d) Whenever any payment hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of any interest or fees, as the case may be; that if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of a Eurodollar Advance to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
(e) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due by the Borrower to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent on such date and the Administrative Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent that the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Administrative Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
(f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder that is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) shall (to the fullest extent permitted by law) bear interest from the date when due until paid in full at a rate per annum equal at all times to the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time plus 2%, payable upon demand.
SECTION 2.14 .
Taxes
 
(a) Each payment by or on account of the Borrower under this Agreement shall be made without withholding for any Taxes, unless such withholding is required by any law. If any Withholding Agent determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it is so required to withhold Taxes, then such Withholding Agent may so withhold and shall timely pay the full amount of withheld Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. If such Taxes are Indemnified Taxes, then the amount payable by the Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that, net of such withholding (including such withholding applicable to additional amounts payable under this Section), the applicable Recipient receives the amount it would have received had no such withholding been made.
(b) The Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(d) The Borrower shall indemnify each Recipient for any Indemnified Taxes that are paid or payable by such Recipient in connection with this Agreement (including amounts paid or payable under this ) and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The indemnity under this shall be paid within 10 days after the Recipient delivers to the Borrower a certificate stating the amount of any Indemnified Taxes so paid or payable by such Recipient and describing in reasonable detail the basis for the indemnification claim. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so paid or payable absent manifest error. Such Recipient shall deliver a copy of such certificate to the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.14(d)
Section 2.14(d)
(e) Each Lender shall severally indemnify the Administrative Agent for any Taxes (but, in the case of any Indemnified Taxes, only to the extent that the Borrower has not already indemnified the Administrative Agent for such Indemnified Taxes and without limiting the obligation of the Borrower to do so) attributable to such Lender that are paid or payable by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Agreement and any reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority, as a result of the failure by such Lender to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to ; that no Lender shall be liable for the portion of any interest, expenses or penalties that are found by a final non-appealable decision of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. The indemnity under this shall be paid within 10 days after the Administrative Agent delivers to the applicable Lender a certificate stating the amount of Taxes so paid or payable by the Administrative Agent and, if requested by the applicable Lender, a copy of any notice of claim of the relevant Governmental Authority at the time the Administrative Agent makes a written demand for indemnification. Such certificate shall be conclusive of the amount so paid or payable absent manifest error.
Section 2.14(f)
provided
Section 2.14(e)
(f) Status of Lenders.
(i) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from, or reduction of, any applicable withholding Tax with respect to any payments under this Agreement shall promptly deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, at the time or times
 
reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will permit such payments to be made without, or at a reduced rate of, withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall promptly deliver such other documentation prescribed by law or at the time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to any withholding (including backup withholding) or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding two sentences, the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in through and below) shall not be required if the Lender notifies the Borrower and the Administrative Agent that the Lender is waiving its rights under this to indemnification of the withholding Taxes to which the requested documentation relates. Upon the reasonable request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, any Lender shall update any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this . If any form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect with respect to a Lender, such Lender shall promptly (and in any event within 10 days after such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy) notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent in writing of such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy and update the form or certification if it is legally eligible to do so.
Section 2.14(f)(ii)(A)
(E) 
Section 2.14(f)(iii)
Section 2.14
Section 2.14(f)
(ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Borrower is a U.S. Person, any Lender with respect to the Borrower shall, if it is legally eligible to do so, deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies reasonably requested by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a party hereto, duly completed and executed copies of whichever of the following is applicable:
(A) in the case of a Lender that is a U.S. Person, IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. Federal backup withholding tax;
(B) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (1) with respect to payments of interest under this Agreement, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "interest" article of such tax treaty and (2) with respect to any other applicable payments under this Agreement, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of such tax treaty;
(C) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender for whom payments under this Agreement constitute income that is effectively connected with such Lender's conduct of a trade or business in the United States, IRS Form W-8ECI;
(D) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code both (1) IRS Form W-8BEN and (2) a certificate substantially in the appropriate form of Exhibit E (a "U.S. Tax Certificate") to the effect that such Lender is not (a) a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (b) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code (c) a "controlled foreign corporation"
 
described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (d) conducting a trade or business in the United States with which the relevant interest payments are effectively connected;
(E) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender that is not the beneficial owner of payments made under this Agreement (including a partnership or a participating Lender) (1) an IRS Form W-8IMY on behalf of itself and (2) the relevant forms prescribed in clauses (A), (B), (C), (D) and (F) of this paragraph (f)(ii) that would be required of each such beneficial owner or partner of such partnership if such beneficial owner or partner were a Lender; , , that if the Non-U.S. Lender is a partnership providing an IRS Form W-8IMY on behalf of itself and one or more of its partners are claiming the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code, such Non-U.S. Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Certificate on behalf of such partners; or
provided
however
(F) any other form prescribed by law as a basis for claiming exemption from, or a reduction of, U.S. Federal withholding Tax together with such supplementary documentation necessary to enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the amount of Tax (if any) required by law to be withheld.
(iii) If a payment made to a Lender under this Agreement would be subject to U.S. Federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Withholding Agent, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Withholding Agent, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Withholding Agent as may be necessary for the Withholding Agent to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has or has not complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this , "FATCA" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
Section 2.14(f)(iii)
(g) If any party determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that it has received a refund of any Taxes as to which it has been indemnified pursuant to this (including additional amounts paid pursuant to this ), it shall pay to the indemnifying party an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made under this Section with respect to the Taxes giving rise to such refund, including additional amounts paid pursuant to this Section 2.14), net of all out-of-pocket expenses (including any Taxes payable on account of such refund) of such indemnified party and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund). Such indemnifying party, upon the request of such indemnified party, shall repay to such indemnified party the amount paid to such indemnified party pursuant to the previous sentence (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) in the event such indemnified party is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this , in no event will any indemnified party be required to pay any amount to any indemnifying party pursuant to this if such payment would place such indemnified party in a less favorable position (on a net after-Tax basis) than such indemnified party would have been in if the indemnification payments or additional amounts giving rise to such refund had never been paid. This shall not be construed to require any indemnified party to make available its Tax returns (or any other information relating to its Taxes which it deems confidential) to the indemnifying party or any other Person.
Section 2.14
Section 2.14
Section 2.14(g)
Section 2.14(g)
Section 2.14(g)
 
(h) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower or any Lender hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower and the Lenders contained in this shall survive the payment in full of principal and interest hereunder and the termination of this Agreement; that no Lender shall be entitled to demand any payment from the Borrower under this more than one year following the payment to or for the account of such Lender of all other amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder to such Lender and the termination of such Lender's Commitment; , , that the foregoing proviso shall in no way limit the right of any Lender to demand or receive any payment under this to the extent that such payment relates to the retroactive application of any Taxes or Other Taxes if such demand is made within one year after the implementation of such Taxes or Other Taxes.
Section 2.14
provided
Section 2.14
provided
further
Section 2.14
(i) For purposes of and , the term "Lender" includes any LC Issuer.
Section 2.14(e)
(f)
SECTION 2.15 If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances made by it to the Borrower or its participation interest in any Facility LC issued for the account of the Borrower (other than pursuant to , , , or ) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Advances to the Borrower and LC Obligations obtained by all Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Advances and/or LC Obligations as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them, that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc.
Section 2.02(b)
2.11
2.14
2.17.7
8.04(b)
provided
Section 2.15
SECTION 2.16 .
Facility LCs
SECTION 2.16.1 . Each LC Issuer agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement (including the limitations set forth in , and ), upon the request of the Borrower, to issue standby and direct pay letters of credit in a form reasonably acceptable to the applicable LC Issuer and to extend, increase or otherwise modify Facility LCs ("", and each such action a "") for the Borrower, from time to time from the date of this Agreement to the Termination Date; that (a) the aggregate amount of LC Obligations owed by the Borrower to any LC Issuer shall not exceed the amount of such LC Issuer's LC Pro Rata Share of the LC Sublimit (or such higher amount agreed upon in writing between the Borrower and such LC Issuer); (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Obligations shall not exceed the LC Sublimit; (c) the stated amount of all Facility LCs that have scheduled expiry dates after the next scheduled Termination Date for any Lender plus the aggregate principal amount of all Eurodollar Advances that have Interest Periods ending after such Termination Date shall not exceed the remainder of (i) the Aggregate Commitment Amount minus (ii) the aggregate amount of the Commitments that are scheduled to terminate on such Termination Date; and (d) no LC Issuer shall be obligated to issue or Modify any Facility LC if (i) any order, judgment or decree of any court or other governmental authority shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain such LC Issuer from issuing such Facility LC or (ii) any applicable law, or any request or directive from any governmental authority having jurisdiction over such LC Issuer, shall prohibit,
Issuance
Sections 2.01
2.19
3.02
Modify
Modification
provided
 
or request or direct that such LC Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or of such Facility LC in particular. Facility LCs may be issued for any proper limited liability company (or, if applicable, corporate) purpose. Each Facility LC shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Facility LC (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension and provided that such Facility LC may contain customary "evergreen" provisions pursuant to which the expiry date is automatically extended by a specific time period unless such LC Issuer gives notice to the beneficiary of such Facility LC at least a specified time period prior to the expiry date then in effect) and (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the next scheduled Termination Date in effect at the time of issuance, renewal or extension; that with the prior consent of the Administrative Agent and the applicable LC Issuer, such LC Issuer may issue or extend a Facility LC with a later expiration date so long as on or before the date which is seven Business Days prior to the last scheduled Termination Date, whether or not an Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall deposit cash collateral with the Administrative Agent in accordance with in respect of all outstanding Facility LCs with an expiration date later than five Business Days prior to the last scheduled Termination Date. Any Facility LC theretofore issued which contains an "evergreen" or similar automatic extension feature shall, unless the Borrower shall have notified the Administrative Agent and the applicable LC Issuer in writing not less than thirty (30) days (or such shorter period as may be acceptable to the applicable LC Issuer in its sole discretion or such longer period as may be required by the beneficiary of such Facility LC) prior to the date that such Facility LC is scheduled to be automatically extended that the Borrower desires that such Facility LC not be so extended, be automatically extended in accordance with the terms thereof subject to the applicable LC Issuer's right not to so extend if the conditions precedent to the issuance of such Facility LC would not be satisfied. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of an approaching Termination Date, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three (3) Business Days after all Facility LCs have expired and all related LC Obligations are satisfied in full. By their execution of this Agreement, the parties hereto agree that on the Effective Date (without any further action by any Person), each Existing Letter of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued under this Agreement and the rights and obligations of the issuer and the account party thereunder shall be subject to the terms hereof.
provided
Section 2.16.12
SECTION 2.16.2 . Upon the issuance or Modification by an LC Issuer of a Facility LC in accordance with this (or, in the case of the Existing Letters of Credit, on the Effective Date), the applicable LC Issuer shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto, to have unconditionally and irrevocably sold to each Lender, and each Lender shall be deemed, without further action by any party hereto, to have unconditionally and irrevocably purchased from such LC Issuer, a participation in such Facility LC (and each Modification thereof) and the related LC Obligations in proportion to its Pro Rata Share; , no Lender shall be deemed to purchase from such LC Issuer a participation in any Facility LC in excess of the amount that would cause the aggregate amount of such Lender's (a) Advances to the Borrower and (b) participations in Facility LCs to exceed such Lender's Commitment Amount.
Participations
Section 2.16
provided
SECTION 2.16.3 . Subject to , the Borrower shall give the applicable LC Issuer notice prior to 11:00 A.M. at least five Business Days (or such lesser time as the applicable LC Issuer may agree) prior to the proposed date of issuance or Modification of each Facility LC, specifying the beneficiary, the Foreign Currency in which the Borrower proposes such Facility LC be denominated (which Foreign Currency shall be acceptable to the applicable LC Issuer), the proposed date of issuance (or Modification) and the expiry date of such Facility LC, and describing the proposed terms of such Facility LC and the nature of the transactions proposed to be supported thereby. Upon receipt of such notice, the applicable LC
Notice
Section 2.16.1
 
Issuer shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender, of the contents thereof and of the amount of such Lender's participation in such proposed Facility LC. The issuance or Modification by an LC Issuer of any Facility LC shall, in addition to the applicable conditions precedent set forth in (the satisfaction of which an LC Issuer shall have no duty to ascertain; that no LC Issuer shall issue a Facility LC if such LC Issuer shall have received written notice (which has not been rescinded) from the Administrative Agent or any Lender that any applicable condition precedent to the issuance or modification of such Facility LC has not been satisfied and, in fact, such condition precedent is not satisfied at the requested time of issuance), be subject to the conditions precedent that such Facility LC shall be satisfactory to the applicable LC Issuer and that the Borrower shall have executed and delivered such application agreement and/or such other instruments and agreements relating to such Facility LC as such LC Issuer shall have reasonably requested (each a ""). In the event of any conflict (including any additional terms requiring the posting of collateral) between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any Facility LC Application, the terms of this Agreement shall control.
Article III
provided
Facility LC Application
SECTION 2.16.4 . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, a letter of credit fee at a rate per annum equal to the LC Fee Rate on such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Dollar Equivalent of the undrawn stated amount of all Facility LCs for the period from the Effective Date to such Lender's Termination Date (or, if later, the date on which such Lender has no participation interests in the Facility LCs), payable in arrears on the last day of each March, June, September and December and on the applicable Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The Borrower also agrees to pay to the applicable LC Issuer for its own account (a) fronting fees in amounts and at times agreed upon between such LC Issuer and the Borrower and (b) documentary and processing charges in connection with the issuance or Modification of and draws under Facility LCs in accordance with such LC Issuer's standard schedule for such charges as in effect from time to time.
LC Fees
SECTION 2.16.5 . Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Facility LC of any demand for payment under such Facility LC, the applicable LC Issuer shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and each Lender as to the Dollar Equivalent of the amount to be paid by such LC Issuer as a result of such demand and the proposed payment date (the ""). The responsibility of an LC Issuer to the Borrower and each Lender shall be only to determine that the documents (including each demand for payment) delivered under each Facility LC in connection with such presentment shall be in conformity in all material respects with such Facility LC. Each Lender shall be unconditionally and irrevocably liable, without regard to the occurrence of the Termination Date (but subject to and ), the occurrence of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default or any condition precedent whatsoever, to reimburse such LC Issuer on demand for (i) such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of each payment made by such LC Issuer under any Facility LC to the extent such amount is not reimbursed by the Borrower pursuant to (subject to the provisions of ), plus (ii) interest on the foregoing amount to be reimbursed by such Lender, for each day from the date of such LC Issuer's demand for such reimbursement (or, if such demand is made after 11:00 A.M. on such day, from the next succeeding Business Day) to the date on which such Lender pays the amount to be reimbursed by it, at a rate of interest per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate for the first three days and, thereafter, at the Alternate Base Rate.
Administration; Reimbursement by Lenders
LC Payment Date
Sections 2.17
2.16.12
Section 2.16.6
Section 2.16.2
SECTION 2.16.6 . The Borrower shall be irrevocably and unconditionally obligated to reimburse the applicable LC Issuer on or before the applicable LC
Reimbursement by Borrower
 
Payment Date in Dollars (or in the case of any Facility LC denominated in a Foreign Currency, the Dollar Equivalent thereof) for any amount to be paid by such LC Issuer upon any drawing under any Facility LC issued for the account of the Borrower, without presentment, demand, protest or other formalities of any kind; that neither the Borrower nor any Lender shall hereby be precluded from asserting any claim for direct (but not consequential) damages suffered by the Borrower or such Lender to the extent, but only to the extent, caused by (i) the willful misconduct or gross negligence (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) of the applicable LC Issuer in determining whether a request presented under any Facility LC complied with the terms of such Facility LC or (ii) the applicable LC Issuer's failure to pay under any Facility LC after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Facility LC. If the Borrower fails to fully reimburse the applicable LC Issuer by 11:00 A.M. on an LC Payment Date, such LC Issuer shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent. Upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such LC Payment Date, the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of the unpaid Reimbursement Obligations and such Lender's Pro Rata Share thereof. In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested Base Rate Advances to be disbursed on the applicable LC Payment Date in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent of the unpaid Reimbursements Obligations, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified for Base Rate Advances in , but subject to the conditions set forth in . All Reimbursement Obligations that are not fully refinanced by the making of Base Rate Advances because the Borrower cannot satisfy the conditions set forth in or for any other reason shall bear interest, payable on demand, for each day until paid at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin plus 2%. The applicable LC Issuer will pay to each Lender ratably in accordance with its Pro Rata Share all amounts received by it from the Borrower for application in payment, in whole or in part, of the Reimbursement Obligations in respect of any Facility LC issued by such LC Issuer, but only to the extent such Lender has made payment to such LC Issuer in respect of such Facility LC pursuant to .
provided
Section 2.02(e)
Article III
Article III
Section 2.16.5
SECTION 2.16.7 . The Borrower's obligations under this shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and irrespective of any setoff, counterclaim or defense to payment which the Borrower may have against any LC Issuer, any Lender or any beneficiary of a Facility LC. The Borrower agrees with the LC Issuers and the Lenders that the LC Issuers and the Lenders shall not be responsible for, and the Reimbursement Obligations in respect of any Facility LC shall not be affected by, among other things, the validity or genuineness of documents or of any endorsements thereon, even if such documents should in fact prove to be in any or all respects invalid, fraudulent or forged, or any dispute between or among the Borrower, any of its Affiliates, the beneficiary of any Facility LC or any financing institution or other party to whom any Facility LC may be transferred or any claims or defenses whatsoever of the Borrower or of any of its Affiliates against the beneficiary of any Facility LC or any such transferee. No LC Issuer shall be liable for any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however transmitted, in connection with any Facility LC. The Borrower agrees that any action taken or omitted by any LC Issuer or any Lender under or in connection with any Facility LC and the related drafts and documents, if done without gross negligence or willful misconduct (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), shall be binding upon the Borrower and shall not put the applicable LC Issuer or any Lender under any liability to the Borrower. Nothing in this is intended to limit the right of the Borrower to make a claim against an LC Issuer for damages as contemplated by the proviso to the first sentence of .
Obligations Absolute
Section 2.16
Section 2.16.7
Section 2.16.6
SECTION 2.16.8 . Each LC Issuer shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any Facility LC, draft, writing, resolution, notice,
Actions of LC Issuers
 
consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, facsimile, message, statement, order or other document believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons, and upon advice and statements of legal counsel, independent accountants and other experts selected by such LC Issuer. An LC Issuer shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under this Agreement unless it shall first have received such advice or concurrence of the Majority Lenders as it reasonably deems appropriate or it shall first be indemnified to its reasonable satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. Notwithstanding any other provision of this , an LC Issuer shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Agreement in accordance with a request of the Majority Lenders, and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon the Lenders and any future holder of a participation in any Facility LC. Each LC Issuer shall be permitted from time to time to designate one of its Affiliates to perform the duties to be performed by such LC Issuer hereunder with respect to Facility LCs denominated in Foreign Currencies. The provisions of this Section 2.16 shall apply to any such Affiliate mutatis mutandis.
Section 2.16
SECTION 2.16.9 . The Borrower hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Lender, each LC Issuer and the Administrative Agent, and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees, from and against any claim, damage, loss, liability, cost or expense which such Lender, such LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent may incur (or which may be claimed against such Lender, such LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent by any Person whatsoever) by reason of or in connection with the issuance, execution and delivery or transfer of or payment or failure to pay under any Facility LC or any actual or proposed use of any Facility LC, including any claim, damage, loss liability, cost or expense which the applicable LC Issuer may incur by reason of or in connection with (i) the failure of any other Lender to fulfill or comply with its obligations to such LC Issuer hereunder (but nothing herein contained shall affect any right the Borrower may have against any Defaulting Lender) or (ii) by reason of or on account of such LC Issuer issuing any Facility LC that specifies that the term "Beneficiary" included therein includes any successor by operation of law of the named Beneficiary, but which Facility LC does not require that any drawing by any such successor Beneficiary be accompanied by a copy of a legal document, satisfactory to such LC Issuer, evidencing the appointment of such successor Beneficiary; that the Borrower shall not be required to indemnify any Lender, any LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent for any claim, damage, loss, liability, cost or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, caused by (a) the willful misconduct or gross negligence (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) of an LC Issuer in determining whether a request presented under any Facility LC complied with the terms of such Facility LC or (b) an LC Issuer's failure to pay under any Facility LC after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Facility LC. Nothing in this is intended to limit the obligations of the Borrower under any other provision of this Agreement.
Indemnification
provided
Section 2.16.9
SECTION 2.16.10 . Each Lender shall, ratably in accordance with its Pro Rata Share, indemnify the applicable LC Issuer, its Affiliates and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower) against any cost, expense (including reasonable counsel fees and disbursements), claim, demand, action, loss or liability (except such as result from such indemnitees' gross negligence or willful misconduct (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction) or such LC Issuer's failure to pay under any Facility LC after the presentation to it of a request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of the Facility LC) that such indemnitees may suffer or incur in connection with this or any action taken or omitted by such indemnitees hereunder.
Lenders' Indemnification
Section 2.16
 
SECTION 2.16.11 . In its capacity as a Lender, each LC Issuer shall have the same rights and obligations as any other Lender.
Rights as a Lender
SECTION 2.16.12 . In the event the Borrower is required to deposit cash collateral pursuant to the provisions of this Article II, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to 105% of the LC Obligations as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon. Such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the LC Obligations. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the applicable LC Issuer for amounts paid by such LC Issuer in respect of a Facility LC for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Obligations. For the avoidance of doubt, no Lender shall have any reimbursement obligations under in respect of any LC Obligations with respect to any Facility LC for which cash collateral has been deposited in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Cash Collateralization
Section 2.16.5
SECTION 2.16.13 . The Administrative Agent will determine the Outstanding Credit Extensions on each Exchange Rate Date. If at any time the sum of such amounts exceeds the Aggregate Commitment Amount, whether as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates or otherwise, the Borrower shall immediately prepay the Advances in the amount of such excess. To the extent that, after the prepayment of all Advances an excess of the sum of such amounts over the Aggregate Commitment Amount still exists, the Borrower shall promptly cash collateralize the Facility LCs in the manner described in in an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess.
Exchange Rate Date
Section 2.16.12
SECTION 2.17 .
Extensions of Scheduled Termination Date
SECTION 2.17.1 . The Borrower may, not more than two (2) times, by notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify each Lender) not earlier than 60 and not later than 30 days prior to any anniversary of the Effective Date (each, an ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's scheduled Termination Date then in effect (the "") for an additional year from the Existing Termination Date, it being understood that the Termination Date shall not be later than the seventh anniversary of the Effective Date as a result of any such request.
Extension Requests
Anniversary Date
Existing Termination Date
SECTION 2.17.2 . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not later than the date (the "") that is 20 days prior to the applicable Anniversary Date, notify the Administrative Agent whether such Lender agrees to the requested extension of the Termination Date (each Lender that determines not to so extend its Termination Date, a ""). Any Lender that does not advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Notice Date that it has agreed to extend the Existing Termination Date shall be deemed to be a Declining Lender.
Lender Elections to Extend
Notice Date
Declining Lender
SECTION 2.17.3 . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date 15 days prior to the applicable Anniversary Date.
Notification by Administrative Agent
 
SECTION 2.17.4 . The Borrower shall have the right, at any time after a Lender has become a Declining Lender, to require such Declining Lender to assign and delegate its rights and obligations hereunder to one or more existing Lenders or other financial institutions that have agreed to assume such rights and obligations (each an "") pursuant to, and in accordance with the requirements of, .
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 8.07
SECTION 2.17.5 . If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders (including Additional Commitment Lenders) that have agreed so to extend their Termination Date (each an "") shall be more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitment Amount in effect immediately prior to the Anniversary Date, then, effective as of such date, the Termination Date of each Extending Lender (including any applicable Additional Commitment Lender) shall be extended to the date falling one year after the Existing Termination Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Termination Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day).
Minimum Extension Requirement
Extending Lender
SECTION 2.17.6 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, no extension of the Termination Date pursuant to this Section shall be effective unless:
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
(a) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such extension and after giving effect thereto;
(b) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the date of such extension and after giving effect thereto, as though made on and as of such date (or, if any such representation or warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date); and
(c) subject to , each LC Issuer shall have consented to such extension (which consent shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld).
Section 8.07(h)
SECTION 2.17.7 . If the scheduled Termination Date for one or more Lenders (each an "") occurs on a date that is not the Termination Date for all Lenders, then on such Termination Date (a) the Borrower shall repay all amounts payable to the Exiting Lenders in accordance with , (b) the Commitments of the Exiting Lenders, and the participations of the Exiting Lenders in Facility LCs, shall terminate and (c) the Pro Rata Shares and the participations in Facility LCs of the remaining Lenders shall be redetermined pro rata in accordance with their respective Commitment Amounts after giving effect to the terminations described in  above; that if an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists on such Termination Date and either (i) the Borrower fails to pay in full all amounts payable to the Exiting Lenders or (ii) the Majority Lenders so request, the participations of the Exiting Lenders in Facility LCs shall not terminate and no redetermination of the participations of the Lenders in Facility LCs shall be made until the earlier of the first Business Day after such Termination Date on which no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists and the date specified by the Majority Lenders in a notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly advise each Lender). Nothing in the proviso clause to the preceding sentence shall affect the termination of the Commitment of an Exiting Lender on the relevant Termination Date (except with respect to such Exiting Lender's participation in Facility LCs) or any Exiting Lender's right to demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to such Exiting Lender by the Borrower hereunder and to pursue remedies with respect thereto. Further, if at any time after the relevant Termination Date (x) the Borrower has not paid all principal, interest and facility fees payable to one or more Exiting Lenders hereunder and (y) the Lenders (excluding any Exiting Lender) elect to make
Effect of Termination Date for some but not all Lenders
Exiting Lender
Section 2.05
clause (b)
provided
then
 
Advances, then all proceeds of such Advances shall be applied to pay the amounts owed by the Borrower to such Exiting Lenders (ratably based upon the amounts owed to such Lenders) until such principal, interest and facility fees have been paid in full.
SECTION 2.18 . The Borrower may, from time to time, by means of a letter delivered to the Administrative Agent substantially in the form of , request that the Aggregate Commitment Amount be increased by an aggregate amount (for all such increases) not exceeding $1,000,000,000 by (a) increasing the Commitment Amount of one or more Lenders that have agreed to such increase (in their sole discretion) and/or (b) adding one or more commercial banks or other Persons as a party hereto (each an "") with a Commitment Amount in an amount agreed to by any such Additional Lender; that (i) any increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount shall be in an aggregate amount of $25,000,000 or a higher integral multiple of $1,000,000; (ii) no Additional Lender shall be added as a party hereto without the written consent of the Administrative Agent and the LC Issuers (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld) or if an Event of Default or an Unmatured Event of Default exists; (iii) subject to , no such increase shall be effective without the written consent of the LC Issuers (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed); and (iv) the Borrower may not request an increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount unless the Borrower has delivered to the Administrative Agent (with a copy for each Lender) a certificate (A) stating that any applicable governmental authority has approved such increase, (B) attaching evidence, reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, of each such approval and (C) stating that the representations and warranties contained in are correct on and as of the date of such certificate as though made on and as of such date and that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists on such date. Any increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount pursuant to this shall be effective three Business Days after the date on which the Administrative Agent has received and accepted the applicable increase letter in the form of to (in the case of an increase in the Commitment Amount of an existing Lender) or assumption letter in the form of to (in the case of the addition of a commercial bank or other Person as a new Lender). The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount pursuant to this and of the Commitment Amount and Pro Rata Share of each Lender after giving effect thereto. The Borrower shall prepay any Advances outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Advances ratable among the Lenders in accordance with any revised Pro Rata Shares arising from any non-ratable increase in the Commitment Amounts under this ; that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Administrative Agent, the Borrower and each increasing Lender and Additional Lender, as applicable, may make arrangements satisfactory to such parties to cause an increasing Lender or an Additional Lender to temporarily hold risk participations in the outstanding Advances of the other Lenders (rather than fund its Pro Rata Share of all outstanding Advances concurrently with the applicable increase) with a view toward minimizing breakage costs and transfers of funds in connection with any increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount. To the extent that any increase pursuant to this is not expressly authorized pursuant to resolutions or consents delivered pursuant to , the Borrower shall, prior to the effectiveness of such increase, deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate signed by an authorized officer of the Borrower certifying and attaching the resolutions or consents that have been adopted to approve or consent to such increase.
Optional Increase in Commitments
Exhibit C
Additional Lender
provided
Section 8.07(h)
Section 4.01
Section 2.18
Annex 1
Exhibit C
Annex 2
Exhibit C
Section 2.18
Section 8.04(b)
Section 2.18
provided
Section 2.18
Section 3.01(b)(i)
SECTION 2.19 .
Defaulting Lenders
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
 
(a) fees shall cease to accrue on the unutilized portion of the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to ;
Section 2.03
(b) the Commitment Amount and LC Obligations of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included in determining whether all Lenders or the Majority Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment or waiver pursuant to ); that, any waiver, amendment or modification (i) requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender, which affects such Defaulting Lender differently than other affected Lenders or (ii) under , ,  or  (except, in the case of or , with respect to fees as contemplated under this ), shall in each case require the consent of such Defaulting Lender;
Section 8.01
provided
Section 8.01(b)
(c)
(d)
(f)
Section 8.01(c)
(d)
Section 2.19
(c) if any LC Obligations exist at the time a Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender then:
(i) all or any part of such LC Obligations shall be reallocated among the non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Pro Rata Shares but only to the extent (x) the sum of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures plus such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations does not exceed the total of all non-Defaulting Lenders' Commitment Amounts, (y) the sum of each non-Defaulting Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure plus the portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations allocated to such non-Defaulting Lender does not exceed such non-Defaulting Lender's Commitment Amount and (z) the conditions set forth in are satisfied at such time;
Section 3.02
(ii) if the reallocation described in clause (i) above cannot, or can only partially, be effected, the Borrower shall within one Business Day following notice by the Administrative Agent (after giving effect to any partial reallocation pursuant to clause (i) above) cash collateralize such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations in accordance with the procedures set forth in for so long as such LC Obligation is outstanding;
Section 2.16.12
(iii) if the Borrower cash collateralizes any portion of such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations pursuant to this , the Borrower shall not be required to pay any fees to such Defaulting Lender pursuant to with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations during the period such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations are cash collateralized;
Section 2.19(c)
Section 2.16.4
(iv) if the LC Obligations of the non-Defaulting Lenders are reallocated pursuant to this , then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to shall be adjusted in accordance with such non-Defaulting Lenders' Pro Rata Shares; and
Section 2.19(c)
Section 2.16.4
(v) if any Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations are neither cash collateralized nor reallocated pursuant to this , then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of the LC Issuers or any Lender hereunder, all facility fees that otherwise would have been payable to such Defaulting Lender (solely with respect to the portion of such Defaulting Lender's Commitment that was utilized by such LC Obligations) and letter of credit fees payable under with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Obligations shall be payable to the applicable LC Issuers until such LC Obligations are cash collateralized and/or reallocated; and
Section 2.19(c)
Section 2.16.4
(d) so long as any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, no LC Issuer shall be required to issue, amend or increase any Facility LCs, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure and the Defaulting
 
Lender's then outstanding LC Obligations will be 100% covered by the Commitments of the non-Defaulting Lenders and/or cash collateral will be provided by the Borrower in accordance with , and participating interests in any such newly issued or increased Facility LC shall be allocated among non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with (and Defaulting Lenders shall not participate therein).
Section 2.19(c)
Section 2.19(c)(i)
In the event that the Administrative Agent, the Borrower, each LC Issuer each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the LC Obligations of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment and on such date such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Advances of the other Lenders as the Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Advances in accordance with its Pro Rata Share.
SECTION 3.01 . This Agreement (including the Commitments of the Lenders and the obligations of the Borrower hereunder) shall become effective if, on or before April 15, 2011, all of the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness
(a) the Administrative Agent shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, that the Borrower has paid (or will pay with the proceeds of the initial Credit Extensions) all amounts then payable by the Borrower under the Existing Credit Facility and that all commitments to make extensions of credit to the Borrower thereunder have been (or concurrently with the initial Advances will be) terminated;
(b) the Administrative Agent shall have received (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of each party hereto or (ii) written evidence (which may include electronic transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that each party hereto has signed a counterpart of this Agreement and each of the following documents, each dated a date reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and otherwise in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
(i) Certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors or equivalent managing body of the Borrower approving the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and of all documents evidencing other necessary organizational action of the Borrower with respect to this Agreement and the documents contemplated hereby;
(ii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of Borrower certifying (A) the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder; (B) that attached thereto are true and correct copies of the organizational documents of the Borrower, in each case in effect on such date; and (C) that attached thereto are true and correct copies of all governmental and regulatory authorizations and approvals required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the documents contemplated hereby;
(iii) A certificate signed by either the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer or treasurer of the Borrower stating that (A) the representations and warranties contained in are correct on and as of the date of such certificate
Section 4.01
 
as though made on and as of such date and (B) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such certificate; and
(iv) A favorable opinion of Ballard Spahr LLP, counsel for the Borrower, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent; and
(c) the Administrative Agent shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, that the Borrower has paid (or will pay with the proceeds of the initial Credit Extensions) all fees and, to the extent billed, expenses payable by the Borrower hereunder on the Effective Date (including amounts then payable to the Joint Active Lead Arrangers and the Agents).
Promptly upon the occurrence thereof, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower, the Lenders and the LC Issuers as to the Effective Date.
SECTION 3.02 . The obligation of each Lender to make any Advance and of each LC Issuer to issue or modify any Facility LC shall be subject to the conditions precedent that (a) the Effective Date shall have occurred and (b) on the date of such Credit Extension, the following statements shall be true (and (i) the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of Advances pursuant thereto and (ii) the request by the Borrower for the issuance or Modification of a Facility LC (as applicable) shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of the making of such Advances or the issuance or Modification of such Facility LC such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to All Credit Extensions
(A) the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in (excluding the representations and warranties set forth in and the first sentence of ) are correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, before and after giving effect to such Credit Extension and, in the case of the making of Advances, the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
Section 4.01
Section 4.01(e)(ii)
Section 4.01(f)
(B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Credit Extension or, in the case of the making of Advances, from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default with respect to the Borrower.
SECTION 4.01 . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
(a) The Borrower is a limited liability company (or after a transaction contemplated by Section 5.02(b)(iii), a corporation) duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement are within the Borrower's organizational powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary organizational action on the part of the Borrower, and do not and will not contravene (i) the organizational documents of the Borrower, (ii) applicable law or (iii) any contractual or legal restriction binding on or affecting the properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
 
(c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, except any order that has been duly obtained and is (i) in full force and effect and (ii) sufficient for the purposes hereof.
(d) This Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by equitable principles or bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
(e) (i) The consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2010 and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, certified by Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present in all material respects the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates in accordance with GAAP; and (ii) since December 31, 2010, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
(f) Except as disclosed in the Borrower's Annual, Quarterly or Current Reports, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to the Lenders prior to the Effective Date, there is no pending or threatened action, investigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that may reasonably be anticipated to have a Material Adverse Effect. There is no pending or threatened action or proceeding against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that purports to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of this Agreement.
(g) No proceeds of any Advance have been or will be used directly or indirectly in connection with the acquisition of in excess of 5% of any class of equity securities that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or any transaction subject to the requirements of Section 13 or 14 of the Exchange Act.
(h) The Borrower is not engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock. Not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is represented by margin stock.
(i) The Borrower is not required to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
(j) During the twelve consecutive month period prior to the date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the date of any Credit Extension, no steps have been taken by the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, by any other Person to terminate any Plan (excluding any termination arising out of the institution by or against any ComEd Entity of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding so long as such termination would not constitute an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default under ), and there has been no failure to satisfy the minimum funding standard described in Section 412(a)(2) of the Code with respect to any Single Employer Plan that would reasonably be expected to result in a lien pursuant to Section 430(k) of the Code. To the knowledge of the Borrower, no condition exists or event or
Section 6.01(g)
 
transaction has occurred with respect to any Plan, which would reasonably be expected to result in the incurrence by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group of any material liability (other than to make contributions, pay annual PBGC premiums or pay out benefits in the ordinary course of business), fine or penalty (excluding any condition, event or transaction arising out of the institution by or against any ComEd Entity of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding so long as such condition, event or transaction does not constitute an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default under ).
Section 6.01(g)
SECTION 5.01 . The Borrower agrees that so long as any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder remains unpaid, any Facility LC remains outstanding or the Commitments have not been irrevocably terminated, the Borrower will, and, in the case of , will cause its Principal Subsidiaries to, unless the Majority Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
Affirmative Covenants
Section 5.01(a)
(a) .
Keep Books; Existence; Maintenance of Properties; Compliance with Laws; Insurance; Taxes
(i) keep proper books of record and account, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, consistently applied;
(ii) subject to , preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence;
Section 5.02(b)
(iii) maintain and preserve all of its properties (except such properties the failure of which to maintain or preserve would not have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect) which are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted;
(iv) comply in all material respects with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders (including those of any governmental authority and including with respect to environmental matters) to the extent the failure to so comply, individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect;
(v) maintain insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations, or self-insure, as the case may be, in each case in such amounts and covering such contingencies, casualties and risks as is customarily carried by or self-insured against by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower and its Principal Subsidiaries operate;
(vi) at any reasonable time and from time to time, pursuant to prior notice delivered to the Borrower, permit any Lender, or any agent or representative of any thereof, to examine and, at such Lender's expense, make copies of, and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower and any Principal Subsidiary and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any Principal Subsidiary with any of their respective officers; that any non-public information (which has been identified as such by the Borrower or the applicable
provided
 
Principal Subsidiary) obtained by any Lender or any of its agents or representatives pursuant to this  shall be treated confidentially by such Person; , , that such Person may disclose such information to (a) any other party to this Agreement, its examiners, Affiliates, outside auditors, counsel or other professional advisors in connection with this Agreement, (b) to any direct, indirect, actual or prospective counterparty (and its advisor) to any swap, derivative or securitization transaction related to the obligations under the Credit Agreement, (c) to any credit insurance provider or (d) if otherwise required to do so by law or regulatory process (it being understood that, unless prevented from doing so by any applicable law or governmental authority, such Person shall use reasonable efforts to notify the Borrower of any demand or request for any such information promptly upon receipt thereof so that the Borrower may seek a protective order or take other appropriate action);
clause (vi)
provided
further
(vii) use the proceeds of the Advances for general limited liability company or corporate purposes (including the refinancing of its commercial paper and the making of acquisitions), but in no event for any purpose that would be contrary to or
Section 4.01(g)
4.01(h); and
(viii) pay, prior to delinquency, all of its federal income taxes and other material taxes and governmental charges, except to the extent that (a) such taxes or charges are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and against which adequate reserves are being maintained or (b) failure to pay such taxes or charges would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect
.
(b) . Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
(i) as soon as possible, and in any event within five Business Days after the occurrence of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default with respect to the Borrower continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of an authorized officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
(ii) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the Borrower's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such quarter (or, if the Borrower is not required to file a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, copies of an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of the end of such quarter and the related consolidated statement of operations of the Borrower for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year ending on the last day of such quarter, in each case prepared in accordance with GAAP, subject to the absence of footnotes and to year-end adjustments), together with a certificate of an authorized officer of the Borrower stating that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if any such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
(iii) as soon as available and in any event within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the Borrower's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such fiscal year (or, if the Borrower is not required to file an Annual Report on Form 10-K, the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its subsidiaries as of the last day of such fiscal year
 
and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity (if applicable) and cash flows of the Borrower for such fiscal year, certified by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other certified public accountants of recognized national standing), together with a certificate of an authorized officer of the Borrower stating that no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or, if any such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, a statement as to the nature thereof and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto;
(iv) concurrently with the delivery of the quarterly and annual reports referred to in and , a compliance certificate in substantially the form set forth in , duly completed and signed by the Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Borrower;
Sections 5.01(b)(ii)
5.01(b)(iii)
Exhibit D
(v) except as otherwise provided in  or  above, promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that the Borrower sends to its security holders generally, and copies of all Reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q or 8-K, and registration statements and prospectuses that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange (except to the extent that any such registration statement or prospectus relates solely to the issuance of securities pursuant to employee purchase, benefit or dividend reinvestment plans of the Borrower or a Subsidiary);
clause (ii)
(iii)
(vi) promptly upon becoming aware of the institution of any steps by the Borrower or any other Person to terminate any Plan, or the failure to make a required contribution to any Plan if such failure is sufficient to give rise to a lien under section 430(k) of the Code, or the taking of any action with respect to a Plan which could result in the requirement that the Borrower furnish a bond or other security to the PBGC or such Plan, or the occurrence of any event with respect to any Plan which could result in the incurrence by the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group of any material liability, fine or penalty, notice thereof and a statement as to the action the Borrower or such member of the Controlled Group proposes to take with respect thereto;
(vii) promptly upon becoming aware thereof, notice of any change in the Moody's Rating, the Fitch Rating or the S&P Rating; and
(viii) such other information respecting the condition, operations or business, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as any Lender, through the Administrative Agent, may from time to time reasonably request (including any information that any Lender reasonably requests in order to comply with its obligations under any "know your customer" or anti-money laundering laws or regulations).
The Borrower may provide information, documents and other materials that it is obligated to furnish to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this and all other notices, requests, financial statements, financial and other reports, certificates and other information materials, but excluding any communication that (i) relates to a request for a Credit Extension, (ii) relates to the payment of any amount due under this Agreement prior to the scheduled date therefor or any reduction of the Commitments, (iii) provides notice of any Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default, (iv) is required to be delivered to satisfy any condition precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement or any Credit Extension hereunder or (v) relates to a request for an extension of the scheduled Termination Date pursuant to or an increase in the Commitments pursuant to (any non-excluded
Section 5.01(b)
Section 2.17
Section 2.18
 
communication described above, a ""), electronically (including by posting such documents, or providing a link thereto, on Exelon's Internet website). Any document readily available on-line through the "Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieval" system (or any successor system thereof) maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission (or any succeeding Governmental Authority), shall be deemed to have been furnished to the Administrative Agent for purposes of this when the Borrower sends to the Administrative Agent notice (which may be by electronic mail) that such documents are so available. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower agrees that, to the extent requested by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, it will continue to provide "hard copies" of Communications to the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as applicable.
Communication
Section 5.01(b)
The Borrower further agrees that the Administrative Agent may make Communications available to the Lenders by posting such Communications on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").
Platform
THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE". THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT DOES NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF ANY COMMUNICATION OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR ERRORS OR OMISSIONS IN ANY COMMUNICATION. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT IN CONNECTION WITH ANY COMMUNICATION OR THE PLATFORM. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT HAVE ANY LIABILITY TO THE BORROWER, ANY LENDER OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR DAMAGES, LOSSES OR EXPENSES (WHETHER IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) ARISING OUT OF THE BORROWER'S OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S TRANSMISSION OF COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH THE INTERNET, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT SUCH DAMAGES ARE FOUND IN A FINAL NON-APPEALABLE JUDGMENT BY A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION TO HAVE RESULTED FROM SUCH PERSON'S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT. WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THE PLATFORM OR THE BORROWER'S OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S TRANSMISSION OF COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH THE INTERNET.
Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) specifying that a Communication has been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such Communication to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time of the e-mail address to which the foregoing notice may be sent and (ii) that such notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
SECTION 5.02 . The Borrower agrees that so long as any amount payable by the Borrower hereunder remains unpaid, any Facility LC remains outstanding or the Commitments have not been irrevocably terminated (except with respect to , which shall be applicable only as of the date hereof and at any time any Advance or Facility LC is outstanding or is to be made or issued, as applicable), the Borrower will not, without the written consent of the Majority Lenders:
Negative Covenants
Section 5.02(a)
(a) . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist, or permit any Lien on its property, revenues or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, except as follows:
Limitation on Liens
 
(i) Liens imposed by law, such as carriers', warehousemen's, landlords' repairmen's, materialmen's and mechanics' Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business;
(ii) Liens on the capital stock of or any other equity interest in any Subsidiary to secure Nonrecourse Indebtedness;
(iii) Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges, levies, or fines (including such amounts arising under environmental law) on property of the Borrower if the same shall not at the time be delinquent or thereafter can be paid without a material penalty, or are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings;
(iv) Liens upon or in any property acquired in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or to secure any obligation incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property;
(v) Liens existing on property at the time of the acquisition thereof (other than any such Lien created in contemplation of such acquisition unless permitted by the preceding );
clause (iv)
(vi) Liens granted in connection with any financing arrangement for the purchase of nuclear fuel or the financing of pollution control facilities, limited to the fuel or facilities so purchased or acquired;
(vii) Liens arising in connection with sales or transfers of, or financing secured by, accounts receivable or related contracts, provided that any such sale, transfer or financing shall be on arms' length terms;
(viii) Liens securing Permitted Obligations and reimbursement obligations in respect of letters of credit issued to support Permitted Obligations (for the avoidance of doubt, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) program and any other similar agreement or arrangement, including with any Independent System Operator, are permitted under this clause (viii));
(ix) Permitted Encumbrances;
(x) Liens arising in connection with sale and leaseback transactions entered into by the Borrower, but only to the extent that the aggregate purchase price of all assets sold by the Borrower during the term of this Agreement pursuant to such sale and leaseback transactions does not exceed $1,000,000,000;
(xi) Liens arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, compensation arrangements, supplemental retirement plans arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, compensation arrangements, supplemental retirement plans or other social security or similar legislation;
(xii) Liens constituting attachment, judgment and other similar Liens arising in connection with court proceedings to the extent not constituting an Event of Default under ;
Section 6.01(f)
 
(xiii) Liens created in the ordinary course of business to secure liability to insurance carriers and Liens on insurance policies and the proceeds thereof (whether accrued or not), rights or claims against an insurer or other similar asset securing insurance premium financings;
(xiv) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods in the ordinary course of business;
(xv) Liens in the nature of rights of setoff, bankers' liens, revocation, refund, chargeback, counterclaim, netting of cash amounts or similar rights as to deposit accounts, commodity accounts or securities accounts or other funds maintained with a credit or depository institution;
(xvi) Liens consisting of pledges of industrial development, pollution control or similar revenue bonds in connection with the remarketing of such bonds;
(xvii) Liens created under and similar cash collateralization obligations relating to defaulting lenders and remedies upon default;
Section 2.19
(xviii) Liens arising under leases or subleases, licenses or sublicenses granted to others that do not materially interfere with the ordinary course of business of the Borrower;
(xix) Liens resulting from any restriction on any equity interest (or project interest, interests in any energy facility (including undivided interests)) of a Person providing for a breach, termination or default under any owners, participation, shared facility, joint venture, stockholder, membership, limited liability company or partnership agreement between such Person and one or more other holders of equity interest (or project interest, interests in any energy facility (including undivided interests)) of such Person, to the extent a security interest or other Lien is created on any such interest as a result thereof;
(xx) Liens granted on cash or cash equivalents to defease or repay Indebtedness of the Borrower no later than 60 days after the creation of such Lien;
(xxi) Liens created in connection with sales, transfers, leases, assignment or other conveyances or dispositions of assets, including (A) Liens on assets or securities granted or deemed to arise in connection with and as a result of the execution, delivery or performance of contracts to purchase or sell such assets or securities, and (B) rights of first refusal, options or other contractual rights or obligations to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of any interest therein; and
(xxii) Liens, other than those described above in this , that the aggregate amount of all Debt secured by Liens permitted by this  shall not exceed in the aggregate at any one time outstanding $100,000,000.
Section 5.02(a)
provided
clause (xxii)
(b) . Merge with or into or consolidate with or into, or sell, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to any Person or permit any Principal Subsidiary to do so, that (i) any Principal Subsidiary may
Mergers and Consolidations; Disposition of Assets
except
 
merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to any other Principal Subsidiary, (ii) any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to the Borrower, (iii) the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into a Subsidiary thereof formed for the purpose of converting the Borrower into a corporation and (iv) the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to any other Person; that, in each case, (A) immediately before and after giving effect thereto, no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing (except in the case where any Principal Subsidiary may merge with or into or consolidate with or transfer assets to any other Principal Subsidiary), (B) in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which the Borrower is a party, either (x) the Borrower shall be the surviving entity or transferee (as applicable), or (y) the surviving entity or transferee (as applicable) shall be an Eligible Successor and shall have assumed all of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and the Facility LCs pursuant to a written instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion of counsel in form and substance satisfactory to it as to the enforceability of such obligations assumed and (C) subject to  above, in the case of any such merger, consolidation or transfer of assets to which any Principal Subsidiary is a party, a Principal Subsidiary shall be the surviving entity or transferee (as applicable).
provided
clause (B)
(c) . Permit the Interest Coverage Ratio as of the last day of any fiscal quarter to be less than 3.00 to 1.0.
Interest Coverage Ratio
(d) . Engage, or permit any Subsidiary to engage, in any line of business which is material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, other than businesses engaged in by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date hereof and reasonable extensions thereof.
Continuation of Businesses
SECTION 6.01 . If any of the following events shall occur and be continuing (any such event an "Event of Default"):
Events of Default
(a) The Borrower shall fail to pay (i) any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable, (ii) any Reimbursement Obligation within one Business Day after the same becomes due and payable or (iii) any interest on any Advance or any other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
(b) Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or by the Borrower (or any of its officers) pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made; or
(c) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe (i) any term, covenant or agreement contained in , or or (ii) any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if the failure to perform or observe such other term, covenant or agreement shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent (which notice shall be given by the Administrative Agent at the written request of any Lender); or
Section 5.01(a)(vii)
Section 5.01(b)(i)
Section 5.02
(d) The Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt that is outstanding in a principal amount in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt hereunder and Nonrecourse Indebtedness) when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise),
 
and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment), prior to the stated maturity thereof, other than any acceleration of any Debt secured by equipment leases or fuel leases of the Borrower or a Principal Subsidiary as a result of the occurrence of any event requiring a prepayment (whether or not characterized as such) thereunder, which prepayment will not result in a Material Adverse Change; or
(e) The Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary shall take any corporate or limited liability company action to authorize or to consent to any of the actions set forth above in this ; or
Section 6.01(e)
(f) One or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding $100,000,000 (excluding any such judgments or orders to the extent covered by insurance, subject to any customary deductible, and under which the applicable insurance carrier has not denied coverage) shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Principal Subsidiary and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; or
(g) (i) Any Reportable Event that the Majority Lenders determine in good faith is reasonably likely to result in the termination of any Single Employer Plan or in the appointment by the appropriate United States District Court of a trustee to administer a Single Employer Plan shall have occurred and be continuing 60 days after written notice to such effect shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent; (ii) any Single Employer Plan shall be terminated; (iii) a Trustee shall be appointed by an appropriate United States District Court to administer any Single Employer Plan; (iv) the PBGC shall institute proceedings to terminate any Single Employer Plan or to appoint a trustee to administer any Single Employer Plan; or (v) the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group withdraws from any Multiemployer Plan; that on the date of any event described in  through  above, the Unfunded Liabilities of the applicable Plan exceed $100,000,000; and , , that no event described in this that arises out of the institution by or against any ComEd Entity of any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding shall constitute an Event of Default unless 15 days shall have elapsed after the Majority Lenders have reasonably determined, and notified the Borrower in writing, that such event has had or is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (disregarding, solely for purposes of this , the proviso to  of the definition of Material Adverse Effect); or
provided
clauses (i)
(v)
provided
further
Section 6.01(g)
Section 6.01(g)
clause (i)
 
(h) Exelon shall fail to own, directly or indirectly, free and clear of all Liens, 100% of the equity interests of the Borrower; provided that Exelon may distribute the membership interests (or, after a transaction contemplated by , the capital stock) of the Borrower to its shareholders so long as at the time of such distribution (and after giving effect thereto), (i) no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default exists, (ii) the Moody's Rating, S&P Rating and Fitch Rating will be at least Baa3, BBB-, and BBB-, respectively, and (iii) the Borrower's pro forma Interest Coverage Ratio will not be less than 3.00 to 1.0; or
Section 5.02(b)(iii)
(i) A Change in Control shall occur;
then, and in any such event, the Administrative Agent shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, (i) declare the respective Commitments of the Lenders and the commitment of the LC Issuers to issue Facility LCs to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and/or (ii) declare the outstanding principal amount of the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement by the Borrower (including all contingent LC Obligations) to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the outstanding principal amount of the Advances, all such interest and all such other amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; that in the event of an Event of Default under , (A) the obligation of each Lender to make any Advance to the Borrower and the obligation of each LC Issuer to issue Facility LCs shall automatically be terminated and (B) the outstanding principal amount of all Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder (including all contingent LC Obligations) shall automatically and immediately become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; that any amounts provided by Borrower pursuant to the foregoing as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default relating to contingent LC Obligations shall be returned to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived.
provided
Section 6.01(e)
provided
SECTION 7.01 . Each Lender hereby appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as administrative agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement (including enforcement or collection of the obligations of the Borrower hereunder), the Administrative Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Majority Lenders, and such instructions shall be binding upon all Lenders; that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action which exposes the Administrative Agent to personal liability or which is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law. The Administrative Agent agrees to give to each Lender prompt notice of each notice given to it by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Authorization and Action
provided
SECTION 7.02 Neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement, except for its or their respective own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing: (i) the Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be
Administrative Agent's Reliance, Etc.
 
taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts; (ii) the Administrative Agent makes no warranty or representation to any Lender and shall not be responsible to any Lender for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in connection with this Agreement; (iii) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of the Borrower or to inspect the property (including the books and records) of the Borrower; (iv) the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; and (v) the Administrative Agent shall not incur any liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by facsimile) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties.
SECTION 7.03 . With respect to its Commitment, Advances and other rights and obligations hereunder in its capacity as a Lender, JPMCB shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent; and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall include JPMCB in its individual capacity. JPMCB and its affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee under indentures of, and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower, any Affiliate thereof and any Person who may do business with or own securities of the Borrower or any such Affiliate, all as if it were not Administrative Agent and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Administrative Agent and Affiliates
SECTION 7.04 . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on the financial statements referred to in and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement.
Lender Credit Decision
Section 4.01(e)
SECTION 7.05 . The Lenders agree to indemnify the Administrative Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to their respective Pro Rata Shares, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Administrative Agent under this Agreement, that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Administrative Agent promptly upon demand for its Pro Rata Share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that such expenses are reimbursable by the Borrower but for which the Administrative Agent is not reimbursed by the Borrower.
Indemnification
provided
SECTION 7.06 . The Administrative Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Majority Lenders. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Majority Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Administrative Agent. If no successor Administrative Agent shall have been so appointed by the Majority Lenders, and shall have accepted such appointment,
Successor Administrative Agent
 
within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Majority Lenders' removal of the retiring Administrative Agent, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be a commercial bank described in  or  of the definition of "Eligible Assignee" having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if no Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then no successor Administrative Agent shall be appointed under this without the prior written consent of the Borrower, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
clause (i)
(ii)
Article VII
Section 7.06
SECTION 7.07 . The titles "Co-Documentation Agents," "Co-Syndication Agents", "Joint Active Lead Arrangers", "Joint Passive Arrangers", "Joint Active Bookrunners", and "Joint Passive Bookrunners" (each, in such capacity or capacities, a "Titled Person") are purely honorific, and no Person designated as a Titled Person shall have any duties or responsibilities in such capacity and no Titled Person shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender or with the Borrower or any of its Affiliates.
Co-Documentation Agents, Co-Syndication Agents, Joint Active Lead Arrangers, Joint Passive Arrangers, Joint Active Bookrunners and Joint Passive Bookrunners
SECTION 8.01 Subject to , no amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Majority Lenders and, in the case of an amendment, the Borrower, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; provided that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all Lenders (other than any Lender that is the Borrower or an Affiliate thereof), do any of the following: (a) waive or amend any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01 or 3.02, (b) increase or extend the Commitments of the Lenders (other than pursuant to or ) or subject the Lenders to any additional obligations, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, any Advance, any Reimbursement Obligation or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, any Advance, any Reimbursement Obligation or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder or the definition of Majority Lenders, (f) amend this Section 8.01 or (g) waive or amend any provision regarding pro rata sharing or otherwise relates to the distribution of payments among Lenders; , , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent, in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by each LC Issuer, in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of such LC Issuer under this Agreement; and (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall amend, modify or waive without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each LC Issuer.
Amendments, Etc.
Section 2.19
Section 2.17
2.18
provided
further
Section 2.19
 
SECTION 8.02 All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including facsimile transmission) and mailed, sent by facsimile or delivered, if to the Borrower, at 10 S. Dearborn, 54th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603, Attention: Matthew F. Hilzinger, facsimile: (312) 394-5215; if to any Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified in its Administrative Questionnaire or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender; and if to the Administrative Agent, at its address at 1111 Fannin St., 10th Floor, Houston, TX 77002, Attention: Brenda Alleyne, facsimile: (713) 750-2666 or, as to each party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties. All such notices and communications shall be effective (a) if mailed, three Business Days after being deposited in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid, (b) if sent by facsimile, when such facsimile is sent (except that if not sent during normal business hours for the recipient, such facsimile shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient), and (c) otherwise, when delivered, except that notices and communications to the Administrative Agent pursuant to or shall not be effective until received by the Administrative Agent.
Notices, Etc.
Article II
VII
SECTION 8.03 . No failure on the part of any Lender, any LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
SECTION 8.04 .
Costs and Expenses; Indemnification
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the Joint Active Lead Arrangers in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, syndication, modification and amendment of this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including the reasonable fees, internal charges and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel (including in-house counsel) for the Administrative Agent and the Joint Active Lead Arrangers with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Administrative Agent and the Joint Active Lead Arrangers as to their respective rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Borrower further agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses, if any (including counsel fees and expenses of outside counsel and of internal counsel), incurred by the Administrative Agent, any LC Issuer or any Lender in connection with the collection and enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered by the Borrower hereunder, including reasonable counsel fees and expenses in connection with the enforcement of rights under this .
Section 8.04(a)
(b) If any payment of principal of, or any conversion of, any Eurodollar Advance is made other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or conversion pursuant to or or acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to or for any other reason, the Borrower shall, upon demand by any Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender any amount required to compensate such Lender for any additional loss, cost or expense which it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or conversion, including any loss, cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
Section 2.09
2.12
Section 6.01
(c) The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold each Lender, each LC Issuer, each Agent and each of their respective Affiliates, officers, directors, advisors, agents and employees (each, an "") harmless from and against any claim, damage, loss, liability, cost or expense (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses, whether or not such Indemnified Person is named as a
Indemnified Person
 
party to any proceeding or is otherwise subjected to judicial or legal process arising from any such proceeding) that any of them may pay or incur arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, or the use by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the proceeds of any Advance; that the Borrower shall not be liable for any portion of any such claim, damage, loss, liability, cost or expense resulting from such Indemnified Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined in a final non-appealable order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The Borrower's obligations under this shall survive the repayment of all amounts owing by the Borrower to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under this Agreement and the termination of the Commitments and this Agreement. If and to the extent that the obligations of the Borrower under this are unenforceable for any reason, the Borrower agrees to make the maximum contribution to the payment and satisfaction thereof which is permissible under applicable law. This shall not apply with respect to Taxes other than any Taxes that represent losses or damages arising from any non-Tax claim. In the case of an investigation, litigation or proceeding to which the indemnity in this paragraph applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, any of the Borrower's equityholders or creditors, an Indemnified Person or any other person or entity, whether or not an Indemnified Person is otherwise a party thereto.
provided
Section 8.04(c)
Section 8.04(c)
Section 8.04(c)
SECTION 8.05 . Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by to authorize the Administrative Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of , each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower promptly after any such set-off and application made by such Lender or Affiliate thereof, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender under this are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of set-off) that such Lender may have.
Right of Set-off
Section 6.01
Section 6.01
provided
Section 8.05
SECTION 8.06 . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agents and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, that (except as permitted by ) the Borrower shall not have the right to assign rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all Lenders.
Binding Effect
provided
Section 5.02(b)(iii)
SECTION 8.07 .
Assignments and Participations
(a) Each Lender may, with the prior written consent of the Borrower, each LC Issuer and the Administrative Agent (which consents shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and if demanded by the Borrower pursuant to shall to the extent required by such Section, assign to one or more banks or other entities all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and its participation in Facility LCs); that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (ii) the Commitment Amount of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $5,000,000 or, if less, the entire amount of such Lender's Commitment, and shall be an integral multiple of $1,000,000 or such Lender's entire Commitment, (iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee, (iv) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Assumption, together with a
Section 8.07(g)
provided
 
processing and recordation fee of $3,500 (which shall be payable by one or more of the parties to the Assignment and Assumption, and not by the Borrower (except in the case of a demand under ), and shall not be payable if the assignee is a Federal Reserve Bank), (v) the consent of the Borrower shall not be required after the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, and (vi) the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within five (5) Business Days after having received notice thereof. Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Assumption, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under this Agreement and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto (although an assigning Lender shall continue to be entitled to indemnification pursuant to ). Notwithstanding anything contained in this to the contrary, (A) the consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall not be required with respect to any assignment by any Lender to an Affiliate of such Lender or to another Lender or to an Approved Fund, and (B) any Lender may at any time, without the consent of the Borrower, any LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent, and without any requirement to have an Assignment and Assumption executed, assign all or any part of its rights under this Agreement to a Federal Reserve Bank, that no such assignment shall release the transferor Lender from any of its obligations hereunder.
Section 8.07(g)
Section 8.04(c)
Section 8.07(a)
provided
For the purposes of this , the term "Approved Fund" has the following meaning:
Section 8.07(a)
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
(b) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Assumption, the Lender assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Assumption, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Assumption; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Section 4.01(e)
 
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment Amount of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Section 8.02
Register
(d) Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, the Administrative Agent shall, if such Assignment and Assumption has been completed and is in substantially the form of (including any necessary consents of the Administrative Agent, the LC Issuers and the Borrower), (i) accept such Assignment and Assumption, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower.
Exhibit A
(e) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, any LC Issuer or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged; (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations; and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under (it being understood that the documentation required under shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to  of this Section; that such Participant (A) agrees to be subject to the provisions of and as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section; and (B) shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or , with respect to any participation, than its participating Lender would have been entitled to receive, except to the extent such entitlement to receive a greater payment results from a Change in Law that occurs after the Participant acquired the applicable participation. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to 5 as though it were a Lender. Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Advances or other obligations under this Agreement (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Commitments, Advances or its other obligations hereunder) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Commitment, Advance, or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations. The entries in the Participant Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and such Lender shall treat each person whose name is recorded in the Participant Register as the owner of such participation for all purposes of this Agreement notwithstanding any notice to the contrary.
Participant
provided
provided
Section 8.01
Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04(b)
Section 2.14(f)
Section 2.14(f)
paragraph (b)
provided
Sections 2.15
8.07(g)
Sections 2.11
2.14
Section 8.05
Section 2.1
Participant Register
provided
 
(f) Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this , disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Borrower furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower; that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to the Borrower received by it from such Lender (subject to customary exceptions regarding regulatory requirements, compliance with legal process and other requirements of law).
Section 8.07
provided
(g) If any Lender (i) shall make demand for payment under , or , (ii) shall deliver any notice to the Administrative Agent pursuant to resulting in the suspension of certain obligations of the Lenders with respect to Eurodollar Advances, (iii) does not consent to an amendment or waiver that requires the consent of all Lenders and has been approved by the Majority Lenders, or (iv) is a Defaulting Lender, (A) in the case of , within 60 days after such demand (if, but only if, the payment demanded under , or has been made by the Borrower), (B) in the case of , within 60 days after such notice (if such suspension is still in effect), (C) in the case of , within 60 days after the date the Majority Lenders approve the applicable amendment or waiver, or (D) in the case of , at any time so long as such Lender continues to be a Defaulting Lender, as the case may be, the Borrower may demand that such Lender assign in accordance with this to one or more Eligible Assignees designated by the Borrower and reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the LC Issuers all (but not less than all) of such Lender's rights and obligations hereunder within the next succeeding 30 days; that such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances and participations in LC Obligations, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts). If any such Eligible Assignee designated by the Borrower shall fail to consummate such assignment on terms acceptable to such Lender, or if the Borrower shall fail to designate any such Eligible Assignee for all of such Lender's Commitment, Advances and participation in Facility LCs, then such Lender may (but shall not be required to) assign such Commitment and Advances to any other Eligible Assignee in accordance with this during such period. No replacement of a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this shall be deemed to be a waiver of any right that the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any LC Issuer or any other Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender. In the event that a Lender assigns any Eurodollar Advances pursuant to this , such assignment shall be deemed to be a prepayment by the Borrower of such Eurodollar Advances for purposes of .
Section 2.11(a)
2.11(b)
2.14
Section 2.12
then
clause (i)
Section 2.11(a)
2.11(b)
2.14
clause (ii)
clause (iii)
clause (v)
Section 8.07
provided
Section 8.07
Section 8.07(g)
Section 8.07(g)
Section 8.04(b)
(h) If any LC Issuer does not consent to (A) a request by the Borrower to extend the Existing Termination Date pursuant to or (B) a request by the Borrower to increase the Aggregate Commitment Amount pursuant to , the Borrower may upon written notice to the Administrative Agent and such LC Issuer, (i) reduce the LC Sublimit by an amount equal to such LC Issuer's LC Pro Rata Share of the LC Sublimit and such LC Issuer shall cease to be an LC Issuer as of the date of such notice by the Borrower pursuant to this (in which case the consent of such LC Issuer shall not be required under or ) or (ii) require such LC Issuer to assign and delegate its rights and obligations hereunder, as an LC Issuer and as a Lender in accordance with and, in each case, the Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to such LC Issuer with respect to any Facility LCs previously issued by such LC Issuer.
Section 2.17
Section 2.18
Section 8.07(h)
Section 2.17
2.18
Section 8.07(g),
(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (an ""), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Bank to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, the option to provide to the Borrower all or any part of any Advance that such Granting Bank would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to
Granting Bank
SPC
provided
 
make any Advance, (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Advance, the Granting Bank shall be obligated to make such Advance pursuant to the terms hereof. The making of an Advance by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Bank to the same extent, and as if, such Advance were made by such Granting Bank. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement (all liability for which shall remain with the Granting Bank). In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior indebtedness of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Advance to the Granting Bank or to any financial institution (consented to by the Borrower and Administrative Agent, which consents shall be unreasonably withheld or delayed) providing liquidity and/or credit support to or for the account of such SPC to support the funding or maintenance of Advances and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its Advances to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC. This may not be amended in any manner which adversely affects a Granting Bank or an SPC without the written consent of such Granting Bank or SPC.
Section 8.07
Section 8.07(i)
SECTION 8.08 . .
Governing Law
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
SECTION 8.09 . .
Consent to Jurisdiction; Certain Waivers
(a) THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA AND ANY UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SITTING IN THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN ANY SUCH COURT AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY OBJECTION IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AS TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT OR THAT SUCH COURT IS AN INCONVENIENT FORUM. NOTHING HEREIN SHALL LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER TO BRING PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE BORROWER IN THE COURTS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION
.
(b) EXCEPT AS PROHIBITED BY LAW, EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO CLAIM OR RECOVER IN ANY LITIGATION ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT ANY SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES OTHER THAN, OR IN ADDITION TO, ACTUAL DAMAGES
SECTION 8.10
. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
.
THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION
SECTION 8.11 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding among the parties hereto and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.
Execution in Counterparts; Integration
SECTION 8.12 . The following notification is provided to the Borrower pursuant to Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act of 2001, 31 U.S.C. Section 5318:
USA PATRIOT ACT NOTIFICATION
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT PROCEDURES FOR OPENING A NEW ACCOUNT. To help the government fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering activities, Federal law requires all financial institutions to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or entity that opens an account, including any deposit account, treasury management account, loan, other extension of credit, or other financial services product. What this means for the Borrower: When the Borrower opens an account, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders will ask for the Borrower's name, tax identification number and business address and other information that will allow the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to identify the Borrower. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders may also ask to see the Borrower's legal organizational documents or other identifying documents.
SECTION 8.13 . In connection with all aspects of the transactions contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent, the other Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers, the LC Issuers and the Lenders are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, the other Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers, the LC Issuers and the Lenders on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent, each other Agent, each Joint Lead Arranger, each LC Issuer and each Lender is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) none of the Administrative Agent, any other Agent, any Joint Lead Arranger, any LC Issuer nor any Lender has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein; and (iii) the Administrative Agent, the other Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers, the LC Issuers and the Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent, any other Agent, any Joint Lead Arranger, any LC Issuer nor any Lender has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent, the other Agents, the
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
Joint Lead Arrangers, the LC Issuers and the Lenders with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
SECTION 8.14 . JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent under the Existing Credit Facility, the Borrower and each Lender that is a party to the Existing Credit Facility (together with other Lenders that are parties to the Existing Credit Facility constitute the "Majority Lenders" under and as defined in the Existing Credit Facility) agree that concurrently with the effectiveness hereof pursuant to , all commitments to extend credit under the Existing Credit Facility shall terminate and be of no further force or effect (without regard to any requirement in the Existing Credit Facility for prior notice of termination of such commitments).
Termination of Existing Credit Facility
Section 3.01
SECTION 8.15 .
Conversion of Currencies
(a) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum owing hereunder in one currency into another currency, each party hereto agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the first currency could be purchased with such other currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
(b) The obligations of the Borrower in respect of any sum due to any party hereto or any holder of the obligations owing hereunder (the "Applicable Creditor") shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "Judgment Currency") other than the currency in which such sum is stated to be due hereunder (the "Agreement Currency"), be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Creditor of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable Creditor in the Agreement Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss. The obligations of the Borrower contained in this Section 8.15 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder.
 
The "Applicable Margin," the "LC Fee Rate" and the "Facility Fee Rate" for any day are the respective percentages set forth below in the applicable row under the column corresponding to the Pricing Level that exists on such day:
 
For the purposes of the foregoing (but subject to the final paragraph of this Pricing Schedule):
"Debt Rating" means, as of any date of determination, the Fitch Rating, the Moody's Rating or the S&P Rating.
"Fitch" means Fitch, Inc.
"Fitch Rating" means, at any time, the rating issued by Fitch and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
"Moody's Rating" means, at any time, the rating issued by Moody's and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC business.
"S&P Rating" means, at any time, the rating issued by S&P and then in effect with respect to the Borrower's senior unsecured long-term public debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
For purposes of the foregoing, (a) at any time that Debt Ratings are available from each of S&P, Moody's and Fitch and there is a split among such Debt Ratings, then (i) if any two of such Debt Ratings are in the same level, such level shall apply or (ii) if each of such Debt Ratings is in a different level, the level that is the middle level shall apply and (b) at any time that Debt Ratings are available only from any
 
two of S&P, Moody's and Fitch and there is a split in such Debt Ratings, then the higher* of such Debt Ratings shall apply, there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, in which case the level that is one level higher than the lower Debt Rating shall apply. The Debt Ratings shall be determined from the most recent public announcement of any changes in the Debt Ratings. If the rating system of S&P, Moody's or Fitch shall change, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall negotiate in good faith to amend the definition of "Debt Rating" to reflect such changed rating system and, pending the effectiveness of such amendment (which shall require the approval of the Majority Lenders), the Debt Rating shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change. If the Borrower has no Fitch Rating, no Moody's Rating and no S&P Rating, Pricing Level VI shall apply.
unless
 
 
 
 
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [ (the "Assignor") and (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
]
[
Insert name of Assignee
]
Assignee
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below, the interest in and to all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto that represents the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of the Assignor's outstanding rights and obligations under the respective facilities identified below (including without limitation any letters of credit, guaranties and swingline loans included in such facilities and, to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims (including without limitation contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity), suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor against any Person whether known or unknown arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby) other than claims for indemnification or reimbursement with respect to any period prior to Effective Date (the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date:                 , 20     [TO BE INSERTED BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
[Consented to and]
3
Accepted:
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent
By:
Title:
[Consented to:]
4
[NAME OF RELEVANT PARTY]
By:
Title:
 
 
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1 . The Assignor represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. Neither the Assignor nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents or attorneys shall be responsible for (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency, perfection, priority, collectibility, or value of the Credit Agreement or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of the Credit Agreement, (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement, (v) inspecting any of the property, books or records of the Borrower, or any guarantor, or (vi) any mistake, error of judgment, or action taken or omitted to be taken in connection with the Credit Extensions or the Credit Agreement.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iii) agrees that its payment instructions and notice instructions are as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Assumption, (iv) confirms that none of the funds, monies, assets or other consideration being used to make the purchase and assumption hereunder are "plan assets" as defined under ERISA and that its rights, benefits and interests in and under the Credit Agreement will not be "plan assets" under ERISA, (v) agrees to indemnify and hold the Assignor harmless against all losses, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees) and liabilities incurred by the Assignor in connection with or arising in any manner from the Assignee's non-performance of the obligations assumed under this Assignment and Assumption, (vi) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of financial statements and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (vii) attached as Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by the Assignee with respect to its tax status pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2. . The Assignee shall pay the Assignor, on the Effective Date, the amount agreed to by the Assignor and the Assignee. From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, Reimbursement Obligations, fees and other amounts) to the Assignee.
Payments
 
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent,
and the Lenders that are parties to
the Credit Agreement referred to below
1111 Fannin St., 10th Floor
Houston, TX 77002
Attention: Utilities Department
North American Finance Group
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the "Borrower"), refers to the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, among the Borrower, various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned requests a Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Borrowing (the "Proposed Borrowing") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Borrowing is                      , 20    .
(ii) The Type of Advances to be made in connection with the Proposed Borrowing is Base Rate AdvancesEurodollar Advances.
[
] [
]
(iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Borrowing is $            .
(iv) The Interest Period for each Eurodollar Advance made as part of the Proposed Borrowing is [14 days] [month[s]].
 
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
(A) the representations and warranties of the undersigned contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (excluding the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.01(e) and the first sentence of Section 4.01(f) of the Credit Agreement) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date;
(B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the Proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default; and
 
(C) after giving effect to the Proposed Borrowing, the undersigned will not have exceeded any limitation on its ability to incur indebtedness (including any limitation imposed by any governmental or regulatory authority).
 
 
                , 20            
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent
under the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies/Gentlemen:
Please refer to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 among Exelon Generation Company, LLC, as borrower (the ""), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the respective meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
In accordance with Section 2.18 of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower hereby requests an increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount from $            to $            . Such increase shall be made by [increasing the Commitment Amount of             from $            to $            ] [adding             as a Lender under the Credit Agreement with a Commitment Amount of $            ] as set forth in the letter attached hereto. Such increase shall be effective three Business Days after the date that the Administrative Agent accepts the letter attached hereto or such other date as is agreed among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the [increasing] [new] Lender.
The Borrower certifies that (A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement will be correct on the date of the increase requested hereby, before and after giving effect to such increase, as though made on and as of such date; and (B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or shall have occurred and be continuing as of the date of the increase requested hereby, that constitutes an Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default.
Very truly yours,
EXELON GENERATION COMPANY, LLC
By:
Name:
Its:
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent
under the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies/Gentlemen:
Please refer to the letter dated             , 20            from Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the "") requesting an increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount from $            to $            pursuant to Section 2.18 of the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 among the Borrower, various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the respective meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
The undersigned hereby confirms that it has agreed to increase its Commitment Amount under the Credit Agreement from $            to $            effective on the date which is three Business Days after the acceptance hereof by the Administrative Agent or on such other date as may be agreed among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the undersigned.
Very truly yours,
[NAME OF INCREASING LENDER]
 
Accepted as of
                , 20        
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,
  as Administrative Agent
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent
under the Credit Agreement referred to below
Ladies/Gentlemen:
Please refer to the letter dated             , 20            from Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the "") requesting an increase in the Aggregate Commitment Amount from $            to $            pursuant to Section 2.18 of the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 among the Borrower, various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified, extended or restated from time to time, the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the respective meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.
Borrower
Credit Agreement
The undersigned hereby confirms that it has agreed to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement with a Commitment Amount of $            effective on the date which is three Business Days after the acceptance hereof, and consent hereto, by the Administrative Agent or on such other date as may be agreed among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the undersigned.
The undersigned (a) acknowledges that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement and the Schedules and Exhibits thereto, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit and legal analysis and decision to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement; and (b) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit and legal decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement.
The undersigned represents and warrants that (i) it is duly organized and existing and it has full power and authority to take, and has taken, all action necessary to execute and deliver this letter and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement; and (ii) no notices to, or consents, authorizations or approvals of, any Person are required (other than any already given or obtained) for its due execution and delivery of this letter and the performance of its obligations as a Lender under the Credit Agreement.
The undersigned agrees to execute and deliver such other instruments, and take such other actions, as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request in connection with the transactions contemplated by this letter.
The following administrative details apply to the undersigned:
 
 
 
 
The undersigned acknowledges and agrees that, on the date on which the undersigned becomes a Lender under the Credit Agreement as set forth in the second paragraph hereof, the undersigned will be bound by the terms of the Credit Agreement as fully and to the same extent as if the undersigned were an original Lender under the Credit Agreement.
 
Accepted as of             , 20        
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,
  as Administrative Agent
 
 
                , 20            
Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), the undersigned, being             of the Borrower, hereby certifies on behalf of the Borrower as follows:
1. [Delivered] [Posted concurrently]* herewith are the financial statements prepared pursuant to Section 5.01(b)[(ii)/(iii)] of the Credit Agreement for the fiscal             ended             , 20        . All such financial statements comply with the applicable requirements of the Credit Agreement.
*Applicable language to be used based on method of delivery.
2. Schedule I hereto sets forth in reasonable detail the information and calculations necessary to establish the Borrower's compliance with the provisions of Section 5.02(c) of the Credit Agreement as of the end of the fiscal period referred to in paragraph 1 above.
3. (Check one and only one:)
            No Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
            An Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, and the document(s) attached hereto as Schedule II specify in detail the nature and period of existence of such Event of Default or Unmatured Event of Default as well as any and all actions with respect thereto taken or contemplated to be taken by the Borrower.
4. The undersigned has personally reviewed the Credit Agreement, and this certificate was based on an examination made by or under the supervision of the undersigned sufficient to assure that this certificate is accurate.
5. Capitalized terms used in this certificate and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given in the Credit Agreement.
 
Date:  ______________________________
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement").
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the Advances and interests in Facility LCs in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (v) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with a certificate of its non-U.S. person status on United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
[NAME OF LENDER ]
 
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement").
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the Advances and interests in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such interests in Facility LCs, (iii) with respect to the extension of credit pursuant to the Agreement, neither the undersigned nor any of its partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (v) none of its partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code, and (vi) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's or its partners/members' conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY accompanied by a United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN from each of its partners/members claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
[NAME OF LENDER]
 
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement").
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record and beneficial owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) it is not a bank within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iii) it is not a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (iv) it is not a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code, and (v) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with a certificate of its non-U.S. person status on United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender in writing and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
[NAME OF PARTICIPANT]
 
Reference is hereby made to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011, among Exelon Generation Company, LLC (the "Borrower"), various financial institutions and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the "Credit Agreement").
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.14 of the Agreement, the undersigned hereby certifies that (i) it is the sole record owner of the participation in respect of which it is providing this certificate, (ii) its partners/members are the sole beneficial owners of such participation, (iii) with respect such participation, neither the undersigned nor any of its partners/members is a bank extending credit pursuant to a loan agreement entered into in the ordinary course of its trade or business within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (iv) none of its partners/members is a ten percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the Code, (v) none of its partners/members is a controlled foreign corporation related to the Borrower as described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code, and (vi) the interest payments in question are not effectively connected with the undersigned's or its partners/members' conduct of a U.S. trade or business.
The undersigned has furnished its participating Lender with United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY accompanied by a United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN from each of its partners/members claiming the portfolio interest exemption. By executing this certificate, the undersigned agrees that (1) if the information provided on this certificate changes, the undersigned shall promptly so inform such Lender and (2) the undersigned shall have at all times furnished such Lender with a properly completed and currently effective certificate in either the calendar year in which each payment is to be made to the undersigned, or in either of the two calendar years preceding such payments.
[NAME OF PARTICIPANT ]
 

Exhibit 14.1
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
In order to fulfill the promise and expectations for our new company, we must commit ourselves not only to safety, accountability, and continuous improvement, but to the highest ethical standards.
The business prospects of our Company are excellent, and the foundation that we build on is very strong. That foundation comes from the people of Exelon and from the service that we provide to our customers, communities and employees. We are regarded as honest and caring, but disciplined, business people who provide essential services to major urban populations. We can be successful only if we employ an engaged workforce that best serves our diverse communities. And to meet the high standards set by our Company, we must conduct our operations safely and be leaders in developing solutions to our industry's environmental challenges.
Because our business involves services that are critical to our customers in their every day lives and necessary for businesses to operate productively, our operations are closely reviewed by government officials at the local, county, state and national level. Likewise, individuals and institutions have invested billions of dollars in our business with the expectation that we will honestly and effectively use this capital to profitably operate our Company and increase shareholder value.
We will be successful only if we operate our Company, employ our people and finance our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards and with the law. We will destroy shareholder value if we do not. Our Exelon Code of Business Conduct outlines what is expected of all of us to meet our important obligations, and gives us resources to understand these requirements and live up to them.
Please read this Code carefully, and ask your supervisor or the Ethics and Compliance Office if you have any questions. Our Company's success depends on each of us living up to these standards. I commit to you that I will do so. I expect no less from each and every one of you.
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
INTRODUCTION
Using This Guide
The success of Exelon Corporation, including its subsidiaries ("Exelon" or the "Company"), depends on all of us conducting our activities in accordance with the highest ethical standards and applicable law. Exelon's Code of Business Conduct ("Code") reflects our core value of integrity and sets out our required behavioral standards. The Code may, in some instances, set performance levels or expectations that are more stringent than required by law. They are nonetheless required. Exelon recognizes that such enhanced performance fosters compliance with law and provides a platform for our Company to be successful in the eyes of our customers, employees and investors.
The Code does not describe all situations where questions of ethics may arise. That would be virtually impossible to do. It enables you to identify situations that may raise ethical and legal issues, and is designed to help you learn what to do whenever you have a question or concern about what conduct the Company expects from you. All employees are held accountable for following the Code, and it is important that you take the time to read it from cover to cover.
To assist with your understanding, described below is the purpose of each section of the Code.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Exelon's Ethics Principles
 
 
 
 
 
 
Who Must Follow the Exelon Code of Business Conduct
Exelon directors, officers and employees
The Code applies to all directors, officers, and employees of the Company.
Subsidiaries
An Exelon subsidiary may supplement this Code, as necessary, with its own procedures.
Third parties
All Exelon businesses must ensure that others representing Exelon  such as consultants, agents, sales representatives, distributors, vendors, suppliers and independent contractors  agree to follow applicable Exelon ethical and legal standards, either through contractual provisions or certification.
Supervisors and employees must:
 
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Other Codes of Conduct
Since we operate in a heavily regulated industry, there may be other codes of conduct that apply to specific aspects of our business, for example the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") Standards of Conduct. Please note that all references to the Code in this document, unless otherwise stated, mean this Code of Business Conduct, which applies to Exelon and its subsidiaries.
REPORTING ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE ISSUES
Reporting and Investigating Potential Violations
Exelon's success in achieving legal and ethical compliance depends on each employee not only conducting his or her responsibilities in accordance with the law and the Code, but also by reporting matters that raise compliance or ethics issues.
Employees have a personal and professional responsibility to report promptly and in good faith any activity that potentially violates the Code or any other laws, rules or regulations, by using one of the resources described in this section. Employees who knowingly submit false reports, or who fail or delay in required reporting, will be subject to disciplinary action. If an employee self-reports wrongdoing, it will be a factor considered by management in connection with any corrective action imposed for a violation of the law or the Code.
Employees must report any requests received to manipulate accounts, books and records or financial reports, and any suspected misconduct regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing matters to the Ethics Office, Audit and Controls, or the Legal Department.
All reports alleging violations of the law or the Code will be treated confidentially to the extent possible under the circumstances. A prompt, thorough and independent investigation will be conducted of reported concerns. Employees are required to cooperate in any investigation of a compliance or ethics concern. Reported concerns regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters will be reported to the Audit Committee of Exelon's Board of Directors.
If an investigation discloses the need for corrective action, Exelon will implement appropriate corrective action to prevent recurrence.
Seeking Ethics Advice and Reporting Violations
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Because compliance and high standards of ethical behavior are important to the Company, employees must have access to additional guidance from a knowledgeable person when circumstances require. Exelon is committed to providing employees with the resources necessary to help them understand the Code, resolve compliance and ethics questions and report any compliance or ethics concerns. In this regard, Exelon employees have several options.
Managers and supervisors are an initial source of guidance for employees and an appropriate channel for questions or reporting compliance or ethics concerns. Each employee is encouraged to contact his or her manager or supervisor to discuss issues of interpretation or to report concerns with respect to compliance with the law or the Code.
Ethics and Compliance Office
The Ethics and Compliance Office is another avenue for seeking guidance on Code interpretation or reporting concerns. The office reports to the Corporate Secretary and its staff includes personnel accountable for administering the ethics and compliance program. The Ethics and Compliance staff can be reached by phone, e-mail, regular mail, or in person. Contacts can be made anonymously. All contacts will be treated confidentially to the fullest extent possible. Reports to the Ethics and Compliance Office will be handled promptly, thoroughly, fairly, and discreetly.
Other avenues for guidance and reporting concerns in their respective areas are: Human Resources, Legal, Corporate Security, the Employee Concerns Program, and Internal Audit.
Exelon employees may also contact the Exelon at , which is further described below.
Help Line
1-800-23-ETHIC (1-800-233-8442)
Ethics and Compliance Help Line/Compliance Reporting Website
If employees are uncomfortable talking to someone at their location or elsewhere at the Company regarding Code guidance or a concern, they may call the at . The is dedicated solely to answering questions concerning the Code and for reporting compliance or ethics concerns related to suspected violations of the law or the Code. Caller ID is not used and no attempt is made to identify the caller. Anonymous callers who wish to follow up on their call will be assigned a confidential case number and will be advised if additional information is required before an effective investigation can occur.
Exelon Help Line
1-800-23-ETHIC (1-800-233-8442)
Help Line
All calls to the are answered by an independent third-party contractor that maintains the service. The service is multilingual and is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. Once the call is complete, a report of the call is forwarded to the Ethics and Compliance Office for review and appropriate follow-up action, as described under the heading "Reporting and Investigating Potential
Help Line
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Violations."
The vendor managing the may monitor calls for quality assurance purposes. Any quality assurance recordings will not be made available to the Company. The vendor will have information available to employees about their specific issue or concern, but will not provide confidential information about the investigation to any employee. The will coordinate all communications with employees with Exelon's Ethics and Compliance Office.
Help Line
Help Line
Help Line
Employees may also access the web link to request a Code interpretation or report a concern. The link can be accessed through the Exelon intranet website by selecting the link or by entering: .
Report an Ethics Concern
Report an Ethics Concern
"Report an Ethics Concern"
www.compliance-helpline.com
The Help Line and the Report an Ethics Concern web link are valuable resources and are made available to employees to request advice or report compliance or ethics concerns related to the Code. Employees are encouraged to use them.
Retaliation is Prohibited
Any individual may in good faith report a concern regarding the conduct of another person or cooperate in any investigation regarding a suspected violation of the law or the Code without fear of reprisal, harassment, discrimination or retaliation of any kind.
Any form of reprisal against an individual because the individual raised a matter of conduct or cooperated in an investigation is contrary to our culture and values, and it will not be tolerated. A person who engages in any act of retaliation will be disciplined, up to and including termination.
Ethical Decision Making
One of the primary goals of the Code is to enable employees to make ethical business decisions. The Code establishes a set of common expectations for behavior in areas that are vital to the Company's reputation and that pose ethical or legal concerns.
Employees may find it helpful to ask the following questions before taking action in specific situations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
In judging the appropriateness of any action, employees should be able to answer to each of these questions. If you are still unsure or uncomfortable with your course of action, please seek assistance.
yes
The Company relies on the personal judgment and thoughtful behavior of each employee in conducting Company business. Ultimately, employees are personally accountable for their decisions and should discuss ethical questions with a supervisor, manager, or any of the other resources identified in this Code, or call the at . Employees who feel uncomfortable discussing ethical questions with a supervisor or manager are encouraged to contact the Ethics and Compliance Office or call the at .
Help Line
1-800-23-ETHIC (1-800-233-8442)
Help Line
1-800-23-ETHIC (1-800-233-8442)
Accountability
Each employee is accountable for understanding and complying with the Code, and for reporting potential Code violations that are occurring or have occurred. Compliance with the Code is a condition of employment. Managers have the additional accountability of creating an environment that encourages ethical conduct and a commitment to compliance with the law.
Additional Leadership Responsibilities
Managers, in collaboration with the Ethics and Compliance Office, are accountable for the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Each of us is accountable for following the law, complying with Exelon and business unit policies and procedures, and striving to live up to our own values as well as those of Exelon.
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Committing an illegal or unethical act as an Exelon employee, agent, or supplier is never justified.
Each employee must conduct his or her business for the Company in accordance with this Code. All of our stakeholders, including employees, customers, regulators, investors and suppliers, expect it, and our success depends on it.
Waivers
A waiver of any provision of the Code will be made only in exceptional circumstances for substantial cause. Requests for waivers must be submitted to the Corporate General Counsel, or his or her designee, for review and resolution. Any request for a waiver by any Director or Executive Officer must be submitted to the Board of Directors or a Board Committee. All waivers will be reported to the Exelon Ethics and Compliance Steering Committee. In addition, any waiver of a provision in the Code for any Director or Executive Officer will be disclosed to shareholders.
Certification of Compliance
Directors and non-represented employees must complete a certification of compliance questionnaire each year. A completed certification questionnaire is a condition of employment for all non-represented employees. Directors will certify compliance with the Code in connection with the completion of their annual questionnaire.
The certification questionnaire is administered on a confidential basis by the Ethics and Compliance Office. Exceptions that identify suspected violations of the law or this Code will be managed in accordance with the provisions stated above in "Reporting and Investigating Violations."
Violations and Penalties
Exelon considers this Code to be of the utmost importance. Accordingly, it will be appropriately enforced at all levels. Violations of this Code will not be tolerated.
Discipline may be taken against any employee who:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Discipline may include, but is not limited to, a reprimand, performance improvement plans, temporary suspension, demotion, financial sanction, reimbursement for Exelon's losses or damages, and termination of employment. The Company may refer matters involving wrongdoing under the Code to law enforcement for criminal prosecution.
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP AND THE EXELON COMMUNITY
Fair Treatment, Diversity and Inclusion
It is Exelon's policy to provide equal employment opportunity and fair treatment for everyone. Whenever and wherever individuals engage in activities on behalf of the Company, they have a right to be free from prohibited discrimination. We will also actively seek to build an inclusive workforce. Our diverse employees are a competitive advantage, enabling us to make more informed business decisions and to better serve our diverse customer base. We are also committed to diversity and inclusion in regard to our suppliers. Embracing diversity and inclusion is simply the right thing to do.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
Harassment
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Exelon has zero tolerance for harassment and discrimination, including sexual harassment or discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, veteran status, national origin or other bases protected by applicable law, rule or regulation. All personnel must treat their colleagues with respect, fairness and dignity. Exelon personnel at every level have the right to work in an atmosphere that is free from harassment or such discriminatory behavior.
If you feel that you have witnessed discrimination or harassment, you must report it immediately to your supervisor, manager, director, vice president, Human Resources professional, the Legal Department, or the Ethics Office. Complaints of discrimination or harassment will be investigated promptly, thoroughly, and, to the extent possible, confidentially. Exelon does not tolerate any form of retaliation against employees who raise such concerns in good faith.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
Drugs and Alcohol
Exelon is committed to maintaining a work environment that ensures the safety, health and welfare of employees and the public. As explained in detail in our , Exelon requires a drug and alcohol free workplace. Use of controlled dangerous substances and alcohol abuse may adversely impact workplace and public safety, productivity, and may jeopardize Company Assets.
Drug and Alcohol Policy
If you have problems related to alcohol or drugs, you are encouraged to seek confidential assistance from the Employee Assistance Program or other qualified professionals. Employees may contact a program representative at either (Exelon's program) or (Constellation's program).
1-866-872-1666
1-800-395-1616
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
Workplace Violence and Weapons
Exelon is committed to providing a safe and secure working environment for all employees, contractors and customers that is free of threats, intimidation and physical harm.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
If you believe workplace violence is occurring or you believe anyone may be in imminent danger, immediately call , or contact the Exelon Corporate Security Hotline at or Constellation's Security Department at . If you have any knowledge of any direct or implied threats or other workplace violence issues not involving imminent danger, immediately report the matter to your supervisor, Corporate Security, and/or the Ethics and Compliance Office.
911
1-800-550-6154,
1-800-772-2455
Environment
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Exelon conducts its operations in a way that preserves and protects the environment, and complies with applicable environmental laws and regulations and other relevant standards to which the Company may voluntarily subscribe. We also promote a corporate culture where competitive initiatives are consistent with environmental stewardship, demonstrating environmental leadership through full compliance, pollution prevention and continuous improvement.
Report any spills or releases to your supervisor immediately. Furthermore, if you believe that an incident has occurred, or is about to occur, involving any noncompliance with environmental laws, regulations, ordinances, permit conditions, or any other legal obligation, promptly notify your supervisor. Your supervisor will, in turn, notify the appropriate Exelon environmental personnel.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety and Health
Exelon operates all aspects of its businesses in a manner that protects the safety and health of its employees, contractors, customers and the general public. We foster a safety culture in which everyone believes that accidents and injuries are preventable and all employees understand their accountability for maintaining a safe and healthy workplace. Our work is never so urgent, nor the schedule so important, that it cannot be performed safely.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
Community Relations, Employee and Corporate Contributions
Exelon is committed to being a good corporate citizen and we support and encourage employee involvement in community activities and professional organizations, as long as that participation does not jeopardize the Company's reputation or distract from performing job responsibilities. We are also proud to provide financial support to thousands of charitable and civic organizations in the communities where our employees live and work. However, we must ensure that all contributions of money, property and services are properly authorized and comply with all Company policies and procedures and legal and regulatory requirements. We may not bring undue pressure on others to contribute to charitable organizations and may not use Company resources to solicit support for charitable causes without appropriate prior approval.
WORKING WITH CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS
Customer Relations
Customers purchase from companies that understand  and sometimes even anticipate  their needs. We must satisfy fundamental customer needs like quality, reliability, and service in a way that is ethical and legal.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
Procurement Standards
Third-party perception of ethical conduct is particularly critical in the case of employees involved in procurement activities, as well as other employees who are in a position to influence procurement decisions or relationships. Employees must comply with Exelon procurement policies and practices during any procurement activity including issuing requisitions, identifying potential suppliers, bidding, negotiating and contracting, awarding bids, sole source procurement, managing purchase orders and contracts and processing invoices.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Conflicts of Interest Generally
Employees, officers and directors are expected to conduct their work in an ethical and honest manner for the benefit of Exelon, its customers, and its shareholders. When acting on Exelon's behalf, it is paramount that we all make business decisions based on the best interests of the Company  such as the best quality, service and price or other similar competitive factors  and not on personal considerations or relationships.
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
A conflict of interest exists whenever the personal interests, activity, investment or association of an Exelon employee are inconsistent with the responsibilities of his or her employment or position. Conflicts of interest can undermine business judgment and threaten Exelon's reputation in the business community. Even the mere perception of a conflict of interest can cause the intent of your actions to be questioned. A loss to the Company need not occur for a conflict to exist.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
Things to Watch Out For
 
 
 
 
 
Gifts and Gratuities
To maintain unquestioned integrity in our business relationships, we must avoid being placed in an embarrassing position that might make it difficult to carry out our duties impartially. No Exelon employee, officer or director should accept a gift that might be intended to influence, or might appear to influence, a business decision.
Main Obligations
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are unsure whether you may give or accept a gift, speak to your first line supervisor, your manager, Human Resources, the Legal department, or the Ethics Help Line at .
1-800-23-ETHIC (1-800-233-8442)
Business Entertainment
Business entertainment (e.g., meals and attendance at sporting or theater events) or invitations to business events is a common practice meant to promote good will and establish trust in business relationships. Such exchanges are acceptable if they are infrequent and of modest value.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
 
Corporate Opportunities
Employees owe a duty of loyalty to the Company and must act in the best interests of the Company's legitimate interests.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
Outside Activities
Exelon employees actively offer their time and talents to serve in public office and other positions in the community. Exelon supports the involvement of employees in the service to their communities since these activities are consistent with the Company's strongly held core value of corporate citizenship. Likewise, employees may in some instances take on a second job with another business organization. Employees must ensure, however, that these outside activities do not exploit or conflict with their employment with Exelon, or create or result in any conflict or appearance of conflict with the Company's interests.
Main Obligations
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
If you have any questions about whether a public activity or outside work is appropriate, seek guidance from your supervisor, manager, Human Resources professional or contact the Ethics and Compliance Office or call the at .
Help Line
1-800-23-ETHIC (1-800-233-8442)
PROTECTING COMPANY ASSETS
Company Assets Generally
We are entrusted with valuable Company assets. They consist of all property that the Company owns or uses to achieve business objectives ("Company Assets"). They include: physical assets like land, facilities, vehicles, buildings, equipment and inventory; financial assets like cash, receivables, and investments; intellectual property (i.e., patents, trademarks, copyrights, licenses, and trade secrets); contract rights; and computers and information resources. Due care and common sense should govern the use of Company Assets.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
Intellectual Property
Intellectual property includes trademarks, patents, copyrights, proprietary information or trade secrets, technological developments and designs, computer software, and customer or supplier lists. Exelon employees may not intercept, duplicate, or appropriate through electronic or other means, materials such as computer software, audio or video recordings, publications, or other protected intellectual property except by permission of the holder of the intellectual property right. Exelon actively monitors and aggressively protects its intellectual property against loss, theft, or other misuse. Exelon owns all intellectual property made, developed or conceived by an employee during the employee's term of employment through the use of company resources, time or facilities, or which in any way relates to the employee's employment or the energy field. No one working for Exelon may disclose to unauthorized individuals  whether inside or outside the company  any information that would tend to compromise proprietary technologies or trade secrets.
Copyrights and Licenses
Copyright laws protect newspapers, music, magazines, trade journals, books, videos, photographs, drawings, software and Web pages on the Internet. If a work is copyrighted, Exelon may be required to obtain permission from the owner of the work, usually the author or publisher, before the work or article can be copied. Impermissible use of copyrighted material can result in substantial legal liability for you and/or Exelon. Exelon has photocopy and electronic licensing agreements with the Copyright Clearance Center. The photocopy license allows employees of Exelon and its subsidiaries to copy articles from numerous publications. The electronic license gives employees the freedom to lawfully download, e-mail and scan excerpts from various copyrighted works for use within Exelon. Contact the Legal department if you have any questions about work-related use of copyrighted material.
Confidential Information
One of Exelon's most valuable assets is information. Our confidential information assets consist of information or knowledge, regardless of form, that Exelon considers private, that is not common knowledge outside the business or required by law or contract to be maintained as confidential, which might be of use to competitors or harmful to Exelon, if disclosed ("Confidential Information"). It is information or knowledge that an Exelon business develops or pays to have developed and to which Exelon has an exclusive right. Confidential information also includes material information, including transactions, legal proceedings or other business information relating to Exelon (e.g. pending transactions, matters related to litigation or potential
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
litigation, personnel matters, etc.), that has not yet been made public. Confidential Information that has commercial value to competitors or other entities that want to do business with Exelon is sometimes referred to as "proprietary information" or a "trade secret." Examples of Confidential Information include information about Exelon facilities, systems, operations, finances, customers, suppliers, employees, business concepts and strategies, investment plans, development or construction plans, and marketing plans.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further information may be found in Corporate Procedures, and .
Protecting Exelon Information
Information Asset Protection
Records and Information Management
Exelon's Corporate Policy and Procedure ("Records Management Policy") provides the guidance required for the identification, management and maintenance of records required to conduct the Company's business, as well as the guidance required to ensure the consistent and documented destruction of such records. Records for purposes of this provision include any documentary material or information created or received in the ordinary course of business, regardless of the specific nature, medium or form, including paper, photograph, microfilm, electronic, digital, audio or other media.
Records Management
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
If there is any question as to whether a particular record should be maintained, seek guidance from the Ethics Office or the Legal Department as to its retention.
Computer and Electronic Information Security
Exelon's computer, telecommunications and other electronic information resources are Company Assets. They consist of all of the Company's information technology infrastructure and applications such as computer hardware, software applications, networks, e-mail and voice mail systems. If employees remotely access Exelon systems or access third party systems through Exelon systems, the access also belongs to Exelon (collectively "Computer and Information Resources").
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
Internal Controls
Management is accountable for establishing and maintaining a system of internal controls within an organization. Internal controls are those structures, activities, processes, and systems that help management effectively mitigate risks to the organization. Management is also accountable for the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, this accountability requires management to ensure that there is clear, complete, fair and accurate reporting of financial and non-financial information pertaining to business transactions.
Management is charged with this accountability on behalf of the organization's stakeholders and is held responsible for this accountability by the Exelon Board of Directors.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employees are accountable for:
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
 
Employees are prohibited from:
 
 
 
 
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
Government Business
Exelon is committed to conducting its business with government agencies and officials consistent with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and rules. Exelon is also committed to cooperating with government enforcement investigators and law enforcement officials. Employees are free to speak to law enforcement officials in any matter, but are urged to contact the Legal Department promptly whenever they are contacted by such officials regarding matters pertaining to Exelon business.
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Things to Watch Out For
 
 
 
 
Personal Political Contributions
Employees have the right to participate in the political process and to engage in political activities of their own choosing. While involved in personal civic and political affairs, employees must make clear that their views and actions are their own, and not those of Exelon. If you have questions regarding personal political contributions or other personal political activity, seek guidance from the Legal Department, Government and Regulatory Affairs, or the Ethics and Compliance Office.
Main Obligations
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
Lobbying
Exelon is subject to regulation at various levels of government, and is profoundly affected by decisions of elected and appointed government officials. Exelon is therefore engaged with and actively lobbies such government officials in the policymaking process in support of Exelon's business interests on various issues. It is important to our success that advocacy on behalf of Exelon be consistent, coordinated and focused on both our short-term and long-term interests. No Exelon personnel may engage in lobbying activities on behalf of the Company, testify or provide comments before any legislative committees for Exelon, or accept an appointment to an advisory or study group established by a legislative body or administrative agency on behalf of Exelon without first obtaining the approval of Government and Regulatory Affairs or the Legal Department. Government and Regulatory Affairs will also help ensure compliance with all lobbying registration, reporting, and disclosure requirements. All Exelon lobbyists are expected to follow both the letter and spirit of the lobbying laws and to maintain the highest standards of professional integrity. If you have questions regarding lobbying, seek guidance from the Legal Department, Government and Regulatory Affairs, or the Ethics and Compliance Office.
Corporate Contributions and Other Political Activity
Federal law places limits on a corporation's ability to participate fully in the political process, especially by imposing prohibitions on corporations from making contributions of any kind to a candidate, political party, or political committee in connection with a federal election. Some states impose similar restrictions on making corporate contributions and conducting activities to support state or local candidates. Certain limited activities, including issue advocacy and voter education efforts and contributions to some political organizations, are allowed and should be coordinated by Government and Regulatory Affairs. If you have questions regarding corporate contributions or political activity, seek guidance from the Legal Department, Government and Regulatory Affairs, or the Ethics and Compliance Office.
Main Obligations
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
 
LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
Senior Officers
In addition to all other provisions of the Code, Exelon's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other senior officers must adhere to and advocate certain principles in connection with discharging their responsibilities.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
In order for these executives to be effective in meeting these principles, all employees must act with the same high regard for integrity, fairness, honesty, accuracy and good faith.
Insider Trading or Dealing and Stock Tipping
Exelon is committed to fair and open markets for buying and selling its public securities. Federal law prohibits employees from buying or selling any equity or debt security (whether Exelon's or any other company's) based on material information obtained in the course of employment if the information is not available to the general public ("Inside Information"). Material information is information (whether favorable or unfavorable) that a reasonable investor would consider important in deciding whether to buy, sell or hold a security of the Company. Examples of information likely to be material include: earnings; financial results or forecasts; unannounced dividends; business plans; possible mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures; and key personnel changes.
Exelon's policy requires full compliance with applicable laws and avoiding even the appearance of insider trading, insider dealing or tipping. Insider trading or dealing means buying or selling stock or any securities while in possession of Inside Information about the Company. Stock tipping means disclosing Inside Information about Exelon or any other company to another person to enable that person to buy or sell stock or other securities on the basis of such information.
Employees with questions should consult with the Corporate Secretary or the Ethics and Compliance Office.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
Refer to the Corporate Procedure for additional guidance.
Buying and Selling Exelon Securities
SEC Code of Professional Conduct
The SEC has established a code of professional conduct applicable to attorneys who advise the Company on matters that may relate to the Company's SEC filings. The rules require the Company's attorneys to report up-the-ladder within the Company evidence of wrongdoing by the Company or its Directors, employees or agents. Exelon has adopted a policy to assist its attorneys to understand and comply with the SEC's rules. Refer to the Corporate Procedure for additional guidance.
Attorney Conduct Rules
Affiliate Non-Discrimination
The FERC and the state utility commissions in Illinois, Maryland, and Pennsylvania have adopted regulations governing the business dealings between utility subsidiaries of Exelon (collectively referred to as "Utilities") and non-Utility affiliates. These standards and cost-allocation requirements are sometimes referred to as the "Affiliate Rules." Generally speaking, they were issued to ensure that interactions between a Utility and its affiliates are appropriate. They guard against a Utility acting in the interest of its affiliates to its detriment, inappropriately sharing certain information with other affiliates, or inappropriately allocating costs incurred by those affiliates to the Utility. Employees must comply with all of these regulations and similar Tariff provisions applicable to business conducted by the Utilities. Some examples of these include: the FERC Standards of Conduct, the Pennsylvania Code of Conduct, the Illinois Affiliate Non-Discrimination Rules, the New Jersey Affiliate Standards Rules, and the Maryland Electric and Gas Companies  Affiliate Regulations.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
 
 
If you are uncertain about these regulations or have questions regarding their implementation or interpretation, contact the Legal Department for guidance.
Energy Trading Rules
Exelon is committed to lawful and ethical practices in connection with conducting all of the Company's businesses. The Company's electric power and gas supply and trading operations have a special set of rules that must be followed.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
Things to watch out for
 
 
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
 
Antitrust and Unfair Competition
Antitrust laws promote, preserve and protect competition and are a critical part of the environment in which Exelon operates. Violations of competition laws may expose Exelon and individual employees to criminal and or civil liability and associated penalties, including monetary damages, fines and even imprisonment.
Certain types of anticompetitive conduct are always prohibited, such as bid-rigging and agreements among competitors to allocate customers, otherwise divide markets, or to fix prices or terms of sale. Other types of conduct may violate the antitrust laws if the conduct harms competition more than it enhances competition. Even unilateral action by the Company can raise antitrust issues. The antitrust laws prohibit monopolization, which is the misuse of a high market share through exclusionary or predatory conduct.
While Exelon does compete vigorously for business opportunities, we must all do so in a legitimate and lawful manner. Exelon expects all employees to refrain from conduct that may run afoul of antitrust laws.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
 
Antitrust laws are complex. Because the consequences of violating the antitrust laws can be very serious for the persons involved as well as for the Company, the Legal Department should always be consulted prior to committing the Company to any activity about which there may be a question as to the competitive impact.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") has two main provisions. The anti-bribery provision makes it a crime to promise or give anything of value to foreign government or political officials or their agents to obtain or retain business, obtain any improper advantage or otherwise influence their judgment in the performance of official duties. Promising, offering or authorizing a bribe violates the FCPA.
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
The FCPA also requires that publicly held companies, like Exelon, maintain accurate books, records and accounts and devise a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that, among other things, the Company's books and records fairly and accurately reflect business activities and transactions.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
Sales and Marketing Competitive Practices
While information about our competitors is a valuable asset, federal law and our Code require that we obtain this information legally. Exelon seeks to outperform our competitors in a fair and honest manner. We seek competitive advantages through superior performance, not through unethical or illegal business practices. New personnel of the Company are expected to honor any continuing confidentiality obligations that they have with previous employers or other entities.
Main Obligations
 
 
 
CONCLUSION
At Exelon Corporation, ethics means more than just obeying laws and regulations, and following policies. Ethics includes acting with honesty and integrity, respecting our diverse and inclusive stakeholders, promoting a culture of safety, respecting the environment, and avoiding any business activity that could tarnish the Company's reputation. It also includes promoting a culture where employees are both empowered and expected to speak up, seek guidance, and raise compliance and ethics concerns. We should commit ourselves to modeling the behaviors set forth in the Code.
 
Approved by Exelon Board of Directors: Effective March 12, 2012
 
The Code is not a contract of employment and is not intended to create any contractual obligations on the part of Exelon. It does not alter the existing at-will employment relationship between Exelon and its employees. Labor organizations that represent employees have been placed on notice that the Code is included in the work rules applicable to their members.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(March 9, 2012)  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) today approved the proposed merger of Exelon Corporation (NYSE:EXC) and Constellation Energy (NYSE:CEG). Exelon and Constellation plan to complete the merger this coming Monday, March 12.
CHICAGO AND BALTIMORE
"We are pleased that the FERC has approved our merger with Constellation," said Exelon President and COO Christopher M. Crane, who will become president and CEO of Exelon upon closing of the merger. "FERC's approval is the final regulatory requirement to completing the transaction. We look forward to combining our operations and becoming one company."
"We are pleased to now be able to proceed with this transaction and unite our two companies," said Mayo A. Shattuck III, chairman, president and CEO of Constellation, who will become executive chairman of Exelon upon closing of the merger.
Consistent with Exelon and Constellation's application for approval filed with FERC on May 20, 2011, the companies have committed to divesting three Constellation Energy generating stations in Maryland totaling 2,648 megawatts (MW) of generating capacity. They also agreed to sell 500 MW of baseload energy under contracts that will extend until 2015.
The transaction has been approved by shareholders of Exelon and Constellation. Required regulatory approvals or reviews have been completed by the Maryland Public Service Commission, New York Public Service Commission, the Public Utility Commission of Texas, the Department of Justice and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
About Exelon
Exelon Corporation is one of the nation's largest electric utilities with approximately $19 billion in annual revenues. The company has one of the industry's largest portfolios of electricity generation capacity, with a nationwide reach and strong positions in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic. Exelon distributes electricity to approximately 5.4 million customers in northern Illinois and southeastern Pennsylvania and natural gas to approximately 494,000 customers in the Philadelphia area. Exelon is headquartered in Chicago and trades on the NYSE under the ticker EXC.
About Constellation Energy
Constellation Energy is a leading competitive supplier of power, natural gas and energy products and services for homes and businesses across the continental United States. It owns a diversified fleet of generating units, totaling approximately 12,000 megawatts of generating capacity, and is a leading advocate for clean, environmentally sustainable energy sources, such as solar power and nuclear energy.
The company delivers electricity and natural gas through the Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE), its regulated utility in Central Maryland. A FORTUNE 500 company headquartered in Baltimore, Constellation Energy had revenues of $13.8 billion in 2011. Learn more online: www.constellation.com.
For the latest information about the Exelon-Constellation merger, visit the merger website: www.exelonconstellationmerger.com.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this communication constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "may," "will," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions, or events identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding benefits of the proposed merger of Exelon Corporation (Exelon) and Constellation Energy Group, Inc. (Constellation), integration plans and expected synergies, the expected timing of completion of the transaction, anticipated future financial and operating performance and results, including estimates for growth. These statements are based on the current expectations of management of Exelon and Constellation, as applicable. There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements included in this communication regarding the proposed merger. For example, (1) conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied; (2) an unsolicited offer of another company to acquire assets or capital stock of Exelon or Constellation could interfere with the merger; (3) problems may arise in successfully integrating the businesses of the companies, which may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; (4) the combined company may be unable to achieve cost-cutting synergies or it may take longer than expected to achieve those synergies; (5) the merger may involve unexpected costs, unexpected liabilities or unexpected delays, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from the companies' expectations; (6) the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect; (7) the businesses of the companies may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the merger; (8) the companies may not realize the values expected to be obtained for properties expected or required to be divested; (9) the industry may be subject to future regulatory or legislative actions that could adversely affect the companies; and (10) the companies may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements of Exelon, Constellation or the combined company. Discussions of some of these other important factors and assumptions are contained in Exelon's and Constellation's respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, including: (1) Exelon's 2011Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; and (2) Constellation's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12. These risks, as well as other risks associated with the proposed merger, are more fully discussed in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that Exelon filed with the SEC and that the SEC declared effective on October 11, 2011 in connection with the proposed merger. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this communication may not occur. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this communication. Neither Exelon nor Constellation undertake any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this communication.
Additional Information and Where to Find it
In connection with the proposed merger between Exelon and Constellation, Exelon filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that included the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus. The Registration Statement was
 
declared effective by the SEC on October 11, 2011. Exelon and Constellation mailed the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective security holders on or about October 12, 2011. WE URGE INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION about Exelon, Constellation and the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus may be obtained free of charge from Exelon Corporation, Investor Relations, 10 South Dearborn Street, P.O. Box 805398, Chicago, Illinois 60680-5398, or from Constellation Energy Group, Inc., Investor Relations, 100 Constellation Way, Suite 600C, Baltimore, MD 21202.
Contact:
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
(March 12, 2012)  Exelon Corporation (NYSE:EXC) and Constellation Energy (NYSE:CEG) today announced that they have completed their merger, effective today. The merger creates the leading U.S. competitive energy provider with one of the industry's cleanest and lowest-cost power generation fleets, and one of the largest retail customer bases in the nation.
CHICAGO AND BALTIMORE
Upon the closing of the merger, Christopher M. Crane became president and CEO of the combined company, and Mayo A. Shattuck III became executive chairman. The new company retains the Exelon name and remains headquartered in Chicago, with significant operations in Maryland, Illinois and Pennsylvania. It will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EXC.
"Today, the State of Maryland and City of Baltimore become an important new home for Exelon, joining Chicago and Philadelphia," said Crane. "The combined strengths of Exelon and Constellation provide a solid platform for the future."
The merged company is now one of the nation's largest competitive energy products and services suppliers by load (about 164 terawatt-hours per year) and customers (approximately 100,000 business and public sector and approximately 1 million residential), serving more than two-thirds of America's Fortune 100 companies. Exelon will have a coast-to-coast presence with operations and business activities in 47 states, the District of Columbia, and Canada. The company also has one of the nation's largest and cleanest power generation fleets, with approximately 35,000 megawatts of owned power generation, including more than 19,000 megawatts of nuclear power.
The three utilities within Exelon  BGE, ComEd and PECO  remain headquartered in Baltimore, Chicago and Philadelphia, respectively. Together, they make Exelon one of the nation's largest residential electricity and natural gas distribution companies, serving 6.6 million gas and electric customers across three states.
"Exelon is now uniquely positioned in the industry to advance customer choice and clean energy," said Shattuck. "We also are unique in our presence across the energy value chainfrom generation to power sales to transmission to delivery and development of an array of innovative energy products and services
that help our customers succeed. This gives us unmatched perspective on today's energy challenges, and the ability to address them."
The two companies are combining operations immediately, and integration efforts are well underway.
"Today, we come together as one company. We have the best talent in the energy business, and we share a commitment to excellence," said Crane. "We are a diverse team reflecting the strengths of both Exelon and Constellation, and together we will continue to deliver world-class performance."
The transaction has been approved by shareholders of Exelon and Constellation. Required regulatory approvals or reviews have been completed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Maryland Public Service Commission, New York Public Service Commission, the Public Utility Commission of Texas, the Department of Justice, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This communication includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2011Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Constellation Energy Group, Inc.'s 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12, and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Exelon and Constellation. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this communication. Neither Exelon nor Constellation undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this communication.
Exelon Corporation (NYSE:EXC) is the nation's leading competitive energy provider, with approximately $33 billion in annual revenues. Headquartered in Chicago, Exelon has operations and business activities in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Canada. Exelon is the largest competitive U.S. power generator, with approximately 35,000 megawatts of owned capacity comprising one of the nation's cleanest and lowest-cost power generation fleets. The company's Constellation business unit provides energy products and services to approximately 100,000 business and public sector customers and approximately 1 million residential customers. Exelon's utilities deliver electricity and natural gas to approximately 6.6 million customers in central Maryland (BGE), northern Illinois (ComEd) and southeastern Pennsylvania (PECO). Learn more at: .
www.exeloncorp.com

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
(March 12, 2012)  Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC) and Constellation Energy (NYSE: CEG) today announced that Constellation's shares will no longer be listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange and will cease being traded prior to the opening of markets on Tuesday, March 13, 2012. The action follows completion of Constellation's merger with Exelon, creating the nation's leading competitive energy provider.
CHICAGO AND BALTIMORE
Shareholders of both Constellation and Exelon will receive pro-rated dividends in order to synchronize the two companies' dividends so that Constellation shareholders will receive dividends at Constellation's rate through the day before closing and all Exelon shareholders (including former Constellation shareholders) will receive dividends at Exelon's rate from the closing date and after. As previously declared by Constellation's board of directors, a pro-rated dividend equal to $0.23760 per share of Constellation's common stock will be paid on April 11, 2012, to Constellation shareholders of record at the close of business on March 9, 2012.
The Exelon board of directors previously declared a pro-rated dividend equal to $0.14575 per share of Exelon's common stock, which will be paid on April 11, 2012, to Exelon shareholders of record at the close of business on March 9, 2012. The Exelon dividend declaration also included a second pro-rated dividend equal to $0.37925 per share of Exelon's common stock, which will be paid to all Exelon shareholders of record, including the former Constellation shareholders, at 5:00 p.m. New York time on May 15, 2012. This portion of the dividend will be paid on June 8, 2012. Together, the two pro-rated Exelon dividends total $0.525 per share, ensuring that Exelon shareholders will receive their regular quarterly dividend, although it will be paid in two portions.
Exelon Corporation (NYSE:EXC) is the nation's leading competitive energy provider, with approximately $33 billion in annual revenues. Headquartered in Chicago, Exelon has operations and business activities in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Canada. Exelon is the largest competitive U.S. power generator, with approximately 35,000 megawatts of owned capacity comprising one of the nation's cleanest and lowest-cost power generation fleets. The company's Constellation business unit provides energy products and services to approximately 100,000 business and public sector customers and approximately 1 million residential customers. Exelon's utilities deliver electricity and natural gas to approximately 6.6 million customers in central Maryland (BGE), northern Illinois (ComEd) and southeastern Pennsylvania (PECO). Learn more at: .
www.exeloncorp.com
 

Exhibit 99.4
(this ""), dated as of March 12, 2012 (the ""), by Constellation Energy Group, Inc., a Maryland corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ""), to the Replacement Capital Covenant, dated June 27, 2008 (the ""), entered into by the Corporation in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined in the Replacement Capital Covenant).
Amendment
Amendment
Amendment Effective Date
Corporation
Replacement Capital Covenant
A. On June 27, 2008, the Corporation entered into the Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with the issuance of $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its Series A Junior Subordinated Debentures.
B. Pursuant to Section 4(b) of the Replacement Capital Covenant, the Corporation may amend the Replacement Capital Covenant without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt if such amendment is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt and an officer of the Corporation delivers to such Holders a written certificate to that effect.
C. The intent and effect of this Amendment is to recognize, for purposes of calculating qualified replacement capital under the Replacement Capital Covenant, the proceeds from the issuance of any and all securities specified in Section 2 of the Replacement Capital Covenant after the Amendment Effective Date, without regard to the date of such issuance.
the Corporation hereby amends each Replacement Capital Covenant as set forth in this Amendment.
NOW, THEREFORE,
SECTION 1.. (a) Capitalized terms used herein (including in the Recitals) and not otherwise amended or defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Replacement Capital Covenants.
Definitions
(b) The definition of the term "Measurement Period" as set forth in Schedule I to the Replacement Capital Covenant is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced in its entirety with the following definition:
means March 12, 2012.
"Measurement Date'
"
SECTION 2. . Section 2 of the Replacement Capital Covenant is hereby amended by replacing the words "within the applicable Measurement Period (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period)" in subsection (a) thereof with the words "on or after the Measurement Date (without counting any received proceeds more than once for the purpose of the limitations set forth in this Section 2)."
Amendment of Section 2 of the Replacement Capital Covenant
SECTION 3. . (a) Except as expressly amended hereby, all of the provisions of the Replacement Capital Covenants continue in full force and effect.
Miscellaneous
(b) This Amendment shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
, the Corporation has caused this Amendment to Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by a duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 


