FILE:EXC/EXC-8K-20120405155531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
As previously disclosed, on September 28, 2011, Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Generation), a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, entered into a Purchase Agreement, under which Generation agreed to purchase Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One, a 230-megawatt (MW) solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, Calif., from First Solar, which developed and will build and operate the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013.
The U.S. Department of Energy's Loan Programs Office finalized a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One. Advances under the loan are contingent on the satisfaction of various conditions. Finalization of the acquisition was contingent on initial funding of the loan. On April 5, 2012, AV Solar Ranch 1, LLC, the legal entity that owns the project, received the first loan advance, finalizing Generation's ownership of the project.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K is Exelon's press release announcing receipt of the first loan advance.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
This combined Form 8-K is being furnished separately by Exelon and Generation (Registrants). Information contained herein relating to any individual Registrant has been furnished by such Registrant on its own behalf. No Registrant makes any representation as to information relating to any other Registrant.
This Current Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon's 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Constellation Energy Group, Inc.'s 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by the Registrants. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this Current Report. None of the Registrants undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Current Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
April 5, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Exelon Corporation (NYSE: EXC) and First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq: FSLR) today announced that the Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One project has received the first advance of a loan guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Energy's Loan Programs Office, finalizing Exelon's ownership of the project.
CHICAGO and TEMPE, Ariz. (April 5, 2012)
First Solar is constructing the 230-megawatt photovoltaic power project  one of the largest such projects in the world  in northern Los Angeles County and will operate and maintain the project for Exelon. As Exelon and First Solar previously announced, the first portion of the project is expected to come online in late 2012, with full operation planned for late 2013.
AV Solar Ranch One will generate enough electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 average California homes  with no water use, no air emissions and no waste production  displacing approximately 140,000 metric tons of carbon emissions per year, the equivalent of taking approximately 30,000 cars off the road. The project has a 25-year power purchase agreement, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant.
About Exelon
Exelon Corporation is the nation's leading competitive energy provider, with approximately $33 billion in annual revenues. Headquartered in Chicago, Exelon has operations and business activities in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Canada. Exelon is the largest competitive U.S. power generator, with approximately 35,000 megawatts of owned capacity comprising one of the nation's cleanest and lowest-cost power generation fleets. The company's Constellation business unit provides energy products and services to approximately 100,000 business and public sector customers and approximately 1 million residential customers. Exelon's utilities deliver electricity and natural gas to approximately 6.6 million customers in central Maryland (BGE), northern Illinois (ComEd) and southeastern Pennsylvania (PECO). Learn more at:
www.exeloncorp.com.
About First Solar, Inc.
First Solar manufactures solar modules with an advanced semiconductor technology, and is a premier provider of comprehensive photovoltaic (PV) system solutions. The company is delivering an economically viable alternative to fossil-fuel generation today. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life collection and recycling, First Solar is focused on creating value-driven renewable energy solutions that protect and enhance the environment. For more information about First Solar, please visit w.
ww.firstsolar.com
Exelon Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. The factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those discussed herein as well as those discussed in (1) Exelon Corporation's (Exelon) 2011Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 18; (2) Constellation Energy Group, Inc.'s 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K in (a) ITEM 1A. Risk Factors, (b) ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and (c) ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data: Note 12; and (3) other factors discussed in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Exelon, Commonwealth Edison Company, PECO Energy Company, Baltimore Gas and Electric Company, and Exelon Generation Company, LLC (Companies). Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this press release. None of the Companies undertakes any obligation to publicly release any revision to its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release.
For First Solar Investors
As a result of this initial loan funding, First Solar's potential repurchase obligation referred to in its September 30, 2011 Form 8-K is of no further force or effect, and First Solar expects to begin recognizing revenue from the project in the second quarter of 2012 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.


