FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20050816083737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On August 10, 2005, the Board of Directors of C. R. Bard, Inc. (the "Company") elected Tommy G. Thompson as a director. Thompson is the former U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services and is currently a partner in the Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP law firm, independent chairman of the Deloitte Center for Health Care Management and Transformation and president of Logistics Health Inc. Secretary Thompson will serve on the Regulatory Compliance and Science and Technology Committees of the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is filed with this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
C. R. Bard, Inc. (NYSE-BCR) today announced that, at its August board meeting, Tommy G. Thompson was elected to its board of directors. Thompson is the former U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) and is currently a partner in the Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP law firm, independent chairman of the Deloitte Center for Health Care Management and Transformation and president of Logistics Health Inc.
MURRAY HILL, NJ (August 16, 2005) 
 
Secretary Thompson was elected to the Wisconsin state Assembly in 1966, becoming Assembly minority leader in 1981. He was elected governor of Wisconsin in 1986, and was serving a fourth term in 2001 when President Bush appointed him to the post of HHS secretary. Under his leadership, HHS modernized the Medicare program  adding prescription drug coverage for beneficiaries  and reformed the welfare program. As secretary, Thompson was also active in the development of the U.S. response to the threat of bioterrorism and in the fight against AIDS, and other diseases. He currently serves as the honorary chairman of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
 
"Having served as the nation's leading advocate for the health and welfare of all Americans, Tommy Thompson brings a very unique and valuable perspective to our board," said Bard Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Timothy M. Ring. "We look forward to working with him in the coming years."
 
Secretary Thompson received both a Bachelor of Science degree and a J.D. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is a former chairman of the National Governors Association, the Education Commission of the States and the Midwestern Governors Conference. He has received numerous awards for his public service, including the Horatio Alger Award.
 
 
C. R. Bard, Inc. (), headquartered in Murray Hill, NJ, is a leading multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products.
www.crbard.com


