FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20050719161757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02.
 
On July 19, 2005, C. R. Bard, Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings and other financial results for the second quarter and six month period ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02. The information in this press release shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
July 19, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
 (July 19, 2005)  C. R. Bard, Inc. (NYSE-BCR) today reported 2005 second quarter financial results. Second quarter 2005 net sales were $447.4 million, an increase of 7 percent over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of a 2004 divestiture and foreign exchange, second quarter 2005 ongoing net sales increased 10 percent over the prior-year period.
MURRAY HILL, NJ
 
For the second quarter 2005, net sales in the U.S. were $304.1 million and net sales outside the U.S. were $143.3 million, up 5 percent and 14 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of a 2004 divestiture and foreign exchange, second quarter 2005 ongoing net sales in the U.S. and outside the U.S. increased 9 percent and 12 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period.
 
For the second quarter 2005, net income was $85.3 million and diluted earnings per share were 79 cents, an increase of 45 percent and 44 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period.
 
The 2005 second quarter results included certain items that increased net income by $5.1 million (after-tax), or 5 cents per diluted share. Excluding certain items, second quarter 2005 net income was $80.2 million and diluted earnings per share were 74 cents. Net income and diluted earnings per share, excluding certain items, increased 31 percent and 30 percent, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period.
 
"We are pleased to report solid revenue and earnings results for the quarter. Our diversified product portfolio helped drive top line growth and we benefited specifically from strong sales in our Oncology business," commented Timothy M. Ring, chairman and chief executive officer. "Healthy margins and controlled spending have again positively impacted earnings this quarter. We continue to prudently invest operational savings into the business with a goal to enhance growth and increase shareholder value."
 
C. R. Bard, Inc. , headquartered in Murray Hill, N.J., is a leading multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products.
(www.crbard.com)
 
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are based on management's current expectations, the accuracy of which is necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as "anticipate", "estimate", "expect", "project", "intend", "forecast", "plan", "believe", and other words of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product developments, sales efforts, expenses, the outcomes of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and other economic, business, competitive and regulatory factors. The company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. Please refer to our March 31, 2005 10-Q for more detailed information about these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
 
The company sold certain assets of its Endoscopic Technologies division on September 30, 2004. Net sales excluding sales of the divested Endoscopic Technologies products are referred to as "ongoing net sales". The earnings per share figures reported in this press release reflect the company's two-for-one common stock split that became effective on May 28, 2004.
 
Net sales, excluding foreign exchange, ongoing net sales and net income and diluted earnings per share excluding certain items are non-GAAP financial measures. The company analyzes net sales on a constant currency and ongoing basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Because changes in foreign currency exchange rates have a non-operating impact on net sales, the company believes that evaluating growth in net sales on a constant currency basis provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net sales. The company believes that comparing ongoing net sales between periods provides an additional and meaningful analysis of comparable operations. Net income and EPS excluding certain items are used by the company to measure the comparability of results between periods. Because certain items such as investment gains and litigation outcomes may not reflect underlying operating results, the company believes the exclusion of these and similar items provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net income and EPS. The limitation of these non-GAAP measures is that, by excluding certain items, they do not reflect results on a standardized reporting basis. All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP disclosures and should not be viewed as a replacement for GAAP results. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, please see the attached tables.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally in the first quarter of 2004, the company recorded a $1.1 million tax credit in income tax provision related to the retroactive effective date of its Malaysian high-technology pioneer grant ($0.01 diluted earnings per share).
 
 
 
 
 


