FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20051018163422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02.
 
On October 18, 2005, C. R. Bard, Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings and other financial results for the third quarter and nine month period ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02. The information in this press release shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
October 18, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
 (October 18, 2005)  C. R. Bard, Inc. (NYSE-BCR) today reported 2005 third quarter financial results. Third quarter 2005 net sales were $443.3 million, an increase of 5 percent over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of a 2004 divestiture and foreign exchange, third quarter 2005 ongoing net sales increased 9 percent over the prior-year period.
MURRAY HILL, NJ
 
For the third quarter 2005, net sales in the U.S. were $311.0 million and net sales outside the U.S. were $132.3 million, up 4 percent and 7 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of a 2004 divestiture and foreign exchange, third quarter 2005 ongoing net sales in the U.S. and outside the U.S. increased 8 percent and 10 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period.
 
For the third quarter 2005, net income was $90.4 million and diluted earnings per share were 83 cents, a decrease of 12 percent and 13 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period. The 2005 third quarter results included certain items that increased net income by $6.8 million (after-tax), or 6 cents per diluted share. Excluding certain items, third quarter 2005 net income was $83.6 million and diluted earnings per share were 77 cents. For comparison, the 2004 third quarter results included certain items that increased net income by $33.8 million (after-tax), or 31 cents per diluted share. Excluding certain items in both periods, net income and diluted earnings per share increased 22 percent and 20 percent, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period.
 
"We are pleased with our strong earnings performance this quarter. Driven by healthy gross margin and operating leverage, we again delivered results above our 2005 goal of 14 percent growth. As we continue to increase our R&D investment and expand our field sales coverage, we are confident that our robust new product pipeline will provide us with greater opportunities in our markets," commented Timothy M. Ring, chairman and chief executive officer. "We remain focused on our long-term strategy to achieve annual top line growth in double digits."
 
C. R. Bard, Inc. (), headquartered in Murray Hill, N.J., is a leading multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products.
www.crbard.com
 
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are based on management's current expectations, the accuracy of which is necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as "anticipate", "estimate", "expect", "project", "intend", "forecast", "plan", "believe", and other words of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product developments, sales efforts, income tax matters, the outcomes of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and other economic, business, competitive and regulatory factors. The company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. Please refer to our June 30, 2005 10-Q for more detailed information about these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
 
The company sold certain assets of its Endoscopic Technologies division on September 30, 2004. Net sales excluding sales of the divested Endoscopic Technologies products are referred to as "ongoing net sales".
 
Net sales, excluding foreign exchange, ongoing net sales and net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) excluding certain items are non-GAAP financial measures. The company analyzes net sales on a constant currency and ongoing basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Because changes in foreign currency exchange rates have a non-operating impact on net sales, the company believes that evaluating growth in net sales on a constant currency basis provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net sales. The company believes that comparing ongoing net sales between periods provides an additional and meaningful analysis of comparable operations. Net income and EPS excluding certain items are used by the company to measure the comparability of results between periods. Because certain items such as investment gains and litigation outcomes may not reflect underlying operating results, the company believes the exclusion of these and similar items provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net income and EPS. The limitation of these non-GAAP measures is that, by excluding certain items, they do not reflect results on a standardized reporting basis. All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP disclosures and should not be viewed as a replacement for GAAP results. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, please see the attached tables.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


