FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20051026165109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 21, 2005, Bard Shannon Limited ("Bard Shannon"), an Irish corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of C. R. Bard, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), and the other parties thereto entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement provides for the extension of unsecured credit in the form of revolving loans during the three-year term of the Credit Agreement, in an aggregate principal amount outstanding not in excess of $250,000,000. The loans may be made in U.S. Dollars, Sterling or Euros.
 
The Credit Agreement is to be used for general corporate purposes, including in connection with the Company's plans to repatriate undistributed earnings to the U.S. in compliance with the American Jobs Creation Act. Bard Shannon anticipates that it will borrow under the Credit Agreement an aggregate amount of up to $200,000,000, in one or a series of borrowings, on or before December 31, 2005.
 
Interest under the Credit Agreement is based on, at Bard Shannon's option, (i) LIBOR plus a specified margin per annum or (ii) the higher of the prime rate of Bank of America, N.A. or 0.50% over the federal funds rate. Bard Shannon is also required to pay, on a quarterly basis, a facility fee on the daily unused amount of the commitments under the Credit Agreement.
 
Accrued interest on drawn prime rate loans is payable on a quarterly basis, and accrued interest on drawn LIBOR loans is payable on the date that is, at Bard Shannon's option, one, two, three or six months after the borrowing date. Any outstanding loans under the Credit Agreement are to be repaid on October 21, 2008.
 
Pursuant to covenants in the Credit Agreement, Bard Shannon must maintain a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest expense coverage ratio. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, as well as customary events of default. The Credit Agreement will expire on the earlier of (a) October 21, 2008 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the commitments upon an optional termination or reduction of the commitments by Bard Shannon or upon an event of default.
 
ITEM 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
The information set forth above under Item 1.01 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
October 26, 2005


