FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20060719161634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02.
On July 19, 2006, C. R. Bard, Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings and other financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02. The information in this press release shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
July 19, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 
 (July 19, 2006)  C. R. Bard, Inc. (NYSE-BCR) today reported 2006 second quarter financial results. Second quarter 2006 net sales were $498.2 million, an increase of 11 percent over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, second quarter 2006 net sales increased 12 percent over the prior-year period.
MURRAY HILL, NJ
For the second quarter 2006, net sales in the U.S. were $347.3 million and net sales outside the U.S. were $150.9 million, up 14 percent and 5 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, second quarter 2006 net sales outside the U.S. increased 8 percent over the prior-year period.
For the second quarter 2006, net income was $81.4 million and diluted earnings per share were 76 cents. Net income and diluted earnings per share, as reported, were down 5 percent and 4 percent, respectively, as compared to second quarter 2005 results. Adjusting for certain items that affect comparability between periods, second quarter 2006 net income was $90.8 million and diluted earnings per share were 85 cents, up 13 percent and 15 percent, respectively, as compared to second quarter 2005 results on a comparable basis. Adjustments to the second quarter 2006 results (see the table below) included charges of $4.0 million (after-tax), or 4 cents per diluted share, for share-based compensation under FAS 123R and $6.4 million (after-tax), or 6 cents per diluted share, for purchased R&D related to the acquisition of Venetec International, Inc. These charges were partially offset by investment gains of $1.0 million (after-tax), or 1 cent per diluted share. Adjustments to the second quarter 2005 results included certain items that increased net income by $5.1 million (after-tax), or 5 cents per diluted share.
Timothy M. Ring, chairman and chief executive officer, commented, "Results for the quarter were again strong. Revenue in all four of our businesses grew at or above our expectations reflecting the productivity of our new product pipeline. Our business model is allowing us to strategically reinvest in the company while still maintaining our full-year adjusted EPS growth target of a minimum of 14 percent. We continue to be pleased with the execution of our strategy, remaining focused on our goal to deliver double-digit revenue growth."
C. R. Bard, Inc. (), headquartered in Murray Hill, N.J., is a leading multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products.
www.crbard.com
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are based on management's current expectations, the accuracy of which is necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as "anticipate", "estimate", "expect", "project", "intend", "forecast", "plan", "believe", and other words of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product developments, sales efforts, income tax matters, the outcomes of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and other economic, business, competitive and regulatory factors. The company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. Please refer to our March 31, 2006 10-Q for more detailed information about these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
Net sales, excluding foreign exchange, and net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) excluding certain items that affect the comparability of results between periods are non-GAAP financial measures. The company analyzes net sales on a constant currency basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Because changes in foreign currency exchange rates have a non-operating impact on net sales, the company believes that evaluating growth in net sales on a constant currency basis provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net sales. Net income and EPS excluding certain items are used by the company to measure the comparability of results between periods. Certain items such as investment gains, acquisition-related charges and litigation outcomes may not reflect underlying operating results, and other items such as the FAS 123R stock option expense may affect the comparability of results between periods. As a result, the company believes the exclusion of these and similar items provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net income and EPS. The limitation of these non-GAAP measures is that, by excluding certain items, they do not reflect results on a standardized reporting basis. All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP disclosures and should not be viewed as a replacement for GAAP results. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, please see the attached tables.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


