FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20060125161215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02.
 
On January 25, 2006, C. R. Bard, Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings and other financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02. The information in this press release shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
January 25, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
 (January 25, 2006)  C. R. Bard, Inc. (NYSE-BCR) today reported 2005 fourth quarter and full year financial results. Fourth quarter 2005 net sales were $452.0 million, an increase of 7 percent over the prior-year period on both a reported and constant currency basis. As previously announced, during the quarter the company initiated a voluntary product recall of its Composix Kugel Mesh X-Large Patch. The fourth quarter 2005 results include a reduction in net sales associated with the recall of $7.8 million, resulting in a 2 percentage point reduction in constant currency net sales growth.
MURRAY HILL, NJ
 
For the fourth quarter 2005, net sales in the U.S. were $308.3 million and net sales outside the U.S. were $143.7 million, up 6 percent and 8 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, fourth quarter 2005 net sales outside the U.S. increased 11 percent over the prior-year period. The recall reduced fourth quarter 2005 net sales in the U.S. by $7.4 million, resulting in a 2 percentage point reduction in net sales growth.
 
Net sales for the full year 2005 were $1,771.3 million, an increase of 7 percent over the prior year. Excluding the impact of a 2004 divestiture and foreign exchange, full year 2005 ongoing net sales increased 9 percent over the prior year. The recall resulted in a reduction of 1 percentage point in full year 2005 ongoing net sales growth in constant currency.
 
For the fourth quarter 2005, net income was $80.1 million and diluted earnings per share were 75 cents, both up 15 percent over the prior-year period. The 2005 fourth quarter results included certain items that increased net income by $2.1 million (after-tax), or 2 cents per diluted share. Excluding certain items, fourth quarter 2005 net income was $78.0 million and diluted earnings per share were 73 cents, both up 12 percent as compared to the prior-year period. Included in the 2005 fourth quarter results were a reduction in net sales and charges associated with the recall that reduced net income by $6.6 million (after-tax), or 6 cents per diluted share.
 
For the full year 2005, net income was $337.1 million and diluted earnings per share were $3.12, both up 11 percent over the prior-year period. The full year 2005 results included certain items that increased net income by $16.0 million (after-tax), or 15 cents per diluted share. For comparison, the full year 2004 results included certain items that increased net income by $40.1 million (after-tax), or 37 cents per diluted share. Excluding these items in both periods, net income and diluted earnings per share for the full year 2005 increased 22 percent and 21 percent, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period.
 
Timothy M. Ring, chairman and chief executive officer, commented, "We are pleased to report that 2005 was another solid year for Bard. Operationally, our portfolio of businesses and products is well positioned across a broad range of medical device markets. We continue to focus on expanding the definition of these markets and therefore the opportunity they represent. We have strong management teams driving our businesses forward, leveraging our new product pipeline and market leadership positions. We look forward to 2006, ready to execute another successful year and deliver healthy revenue and earnings growth along with robust cash flow to support the continuation of our strategy. We remain focused on making ourselves a reliable double-digit revenue growth company over the long-term."
 
C. R. Bard, Inc. (), headquartered in Murray Hill, N.J., is a leading multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products.
www.crbard.com
 
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are based on management's current expectations, the accuracy of which is necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as "anticipate", "estimate", "expect", "project", "intend", "forecast", "plan", "believe", and other words of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product developments, sales efforts, income tax matters, the outcomes of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and other economic, business, competitive and regulatory factors. The company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. Please refer to our September 30, 2005 10-Q for more detailed information about these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
 
The company sold certain assets of its Endoscopic Technologies division on September 30, 2004. Net sales excluding sales of the divested Endoscopic Technologies products are referred to as "ongoing net sales".
 
Net sales, excluding foreign exchange, ongoing net sales and net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) excluding certain items are non-GAAP financial measures. The company analyzes net sales on a constant currency and ongoing basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Because changes in foreign currency exchange rates have a non-operating impact on net sales, the company believes that evaluating growth in net sales on a constant currency basis provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net sales. The company believes that comparing ongoing net sales between periods provides an additional and meaningful analysis of comparable operations. Net income and EPS excluding certain items are used by the company to measure the comparability of results between periods. Because certain items such as investment gains and litigation outcomes may not reflect underlying operating results, the company believes the exclusion of these and similar items provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net income and EPS. The limitation of these non-GAAP measures is that, by excluding certain items, they do not reflect results on a standardized reporting basis. All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP disclosures and should not be viewed as a replacement for GAAP results. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, please see the attached tables.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The aggregate impact of these items on net income and diluted earnings per share is reflected in the following table:
 
 


