FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20060418162345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02.
On April 18, 2006, C. R. Bard, Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings and other financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02. The information in this press release shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
April 18, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 (April 18, 2006)  C. R. Bard, Inc. (NYSE-BCR) today reported 2006 first quarter financial results. First quarter 2006 net sales were $467.5 million, an increase of 9 percent over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, first quarter 2006 net sales increased 11 percent over the prior-year period.
MURRAY HILL, NJ
For the first quarter 2006, net sales in the U.S. were $330.0 million and net sales outside the U.S. were $137.5 million, up 10 percent and 7 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, first quarter 2006 net sales outside the U.S. increased 13 percent over the prior-year period.
For the first quarter 2006, net income was $81.1 million and diluted earnings per share were 76 cents. Net income, as reported, was approximately equal to the prior-year period and diluted earnings per share were up 1 percent. Adjusting for certain items that affect comparability between periods, first quarter 2006 net income was $91.9 million and diluted earnings per share were 86 cents, up 16 percent and 18 percent, respectively, over first quarter 2005 results on a comparable basis. Adjustments to the first quarter 2006 results include charges of $4.5 million (after-tax), or 4 cents per diluted share for share-based compensation under FAS 123R (see the table below) and $6.3 million (after-tax), or 6 cents per diluted share, for purchased R&D. Adjustments to the first quarter 2005 results include certain items that increased net income by $2.0 million (after-tax), or 2 cents per diluted share.
Timothy M. Ring, chairman and chief executive officer, commented, "Bard is off to a solid start for 2006. Our first quarter operating results were strong and we continue to be pleased with the direction of the company. We were especially productive in the business development area, entering into five transactions this quarter. Our healthy constant currency revenue growth this quarter reflects both our broad product portfolio and our geographic diversification. We remain focused on our long-term growth strategy to enhance shareholder value."
C. R. Bard, Inc. (), headquartered in Murray Hill, N.J., is a leading multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products.
www.crbard.com
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are based on management's current expectations, the accuracy of which is necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as "anticipate", "estimate", "expect", "project", "intend", "forecast", "plan", "believe", and other words of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product developments, sales efforts, income tax matters, the outcomes of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and other economic, business, competitive and regulatory factors. The company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. Please refer to our December 31, 2005 10-K for more detailed information about these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
Net sales, excluding foreign exchange, and net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) excluding certain items are non-GAAP financial measures. The company analyzes net sales on a constant currency basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Because changes in foreign currency exchange rates have a non-operating impact on net sales, the company believes that evaluating growth in net sales on a constant currency basis provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net sales. Net income and EPS excluding certain items are used by the company to measure the comparability of results between periods. Certain items such as investment gains, acquisition-related charges and litigation outcomes may not reflect underlying operating results, and other items such as the FAS 123R stock option expense may affect the comparability of results between periods. As a result, the company believes the exclusion of these and similar items provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net income and EPS. The limitation of these non-GAAP measures is that, by excluding certain items, they do not reflect results on a standardized reporting basis. All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP disclosures and should not be viewed as a replacement for GAAP results. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, please see the attached tables.
 
 
 
 
 


