FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20070125162218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02.
On January 25, 2007, C. R. Bard, Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings and other financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02. The information in this press release shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
January 25, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
 
 (January 25, 2007)  C. R. Bard, Inc. (NYSE-BCR) today reported 2006 fourth quarter and full year financial results. Fourth quarter 2006 net sales were $520.9 million, an increase of 15 percent over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, fourth quarter 2006 net sales increased 14 percent over the prior-year period.
MURRAY HILL, NJ
For the fourth quarter 2006, net sales in the U.S. were $361.5 million and net sales outside the U.S. were $159.4 million, up 17 percent and 11 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, fourth quarter 2006 net sales outside the U.S. increased 7 percent over the prior-year period.
Net sales for the full year 2006 were $1,985.5 million, an increase of 12 percent over the prior- year period on both a reported and constant currency basis.
For the fourth quarter 2006, net income was $22.0 million and diluted earnings per share were 21 cents. Net income and diluted earnings per share as reported were down 73 percent and 72 percent, respectively, as compared to fourth quarter 2005 results. Adjusting for certain items that affect comparability between periods, fourth quarter 2006 net income was $99.2 million and diluted earnings per share were 93 cents, both up 27 percent as compared to fourth quarter 2005 results on a comparable basis. Adjustments to the fourth quarter 2006 results reduced net income by $77.2 million (after-tax), or 72 cents per diluted share, and included a charge of $5.6 million (after-tax), or 5 cents per diluted share for share-based compensation under FAS 123R and other items detailed in the statements below. Adjustments to the fourth quarter 2005 results included items that increased net income by $2.1 million (after-tax), or 2 cents per diluted share.
For the full year 2006, net income was $272.1 million and diluted earnings per share were $2.55. Net income and diluted earnings per share as reported, were down 19 percent and 18 percent,
respectively, as compared to full year 2005 results. Adjusting for certain items that affect comparability between periods, full year 2006 net income was $374.7 million and diluted earnings per share were $3.51, up 17 percent and 18 percent, respectively, as compared to full year 2005 results on a comparable basis.
Timothy M. Ring, chairman and chief executive officer, commented, "We are pleased to report strong results for the 4th quarter and full year 2006. This marks the fourth consecutive year in which Bard has delivered adjusted earnings growth above the company's target of 14 percent. This success has been achieved through product innovation, a commitment to market leadership and the efforts and dedication of all our employees. While pleased with our past results, we are equally as excited about the future. In 2007, we will celebrate our 100th anniversary and expect to eclipse $2 billion in revenue as we continue to build on our growth strategy to enhance shareholder value."
C. R. Bard, Inc. (
www.crbard.com
), headquartered in Murray Hill, N.J., is a leading multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products.
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are based on management's current expectations, the accuracy of which is necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as "anticipate", "estimate", "expect", "project", "intend", "forecast", "plan", "believe", and other words of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product developments, sales efforts, income tax matters, the outcomes of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and other economic, business, competitive and regulatory factors. The company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. Please refer to our September 30, 2006 10-Q for more detailed information about these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
Net sales excluding foreign exchange and net income, diluted earnings per share (EPS) and individual statement of income categories excluding certain items that affect the comparability of results between periods are non-GAAP financial measures. The company analyzes net sales on a constant currency basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Because changes in foreign currency exchange rates have a non-operating impact on net sales, the company believes that evaluating growth in net sales on a constant currency basis provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net sales. Net income, EPS and individual statement of income categories excluding certain items are used by the company to measure the comparability of results between periods. Certain items such as investment gains, acquisition-related charges and litigation outcomes may not reflect underlying operating results, and other items such as the FAS 123R stock option expense may affect the comparability of results between periods. As a result, the company believes the exclusion of these and similar items provides an additional and meaningful assessment of charges in net income, EPS and individual statement of income categories. The limitation of these non-GAAP measures is that, by excluding certain items, they do not reflect results on a standardized reporting basis. All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP disclosures and should not be viewed as a replacement for GAAP results. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, please see the attached tables.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The aggregate impact of these items on net income and diluted earnings per share is reflected in the following table:
 
 


