FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20080131161657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02.
On January 31, 2008, C. R. Bard, Inc. issued a press release reporting earnings and other financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02. The information in this press release shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
January 31, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 
 (January 31, 2008)  C. R. Bard, Inc. (NYSE: BCR) today reported 2007 fourth quarter financial results. Fourth quarter 2007 net sales were $583.3 million, an increase of 12 percent over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, fourth quarter 2007 net sales increased 9 percent over the prior-year period.
MURRAY HILL, NJ
For the fourth quarter 2007, net sales in the U.S. were $393.7 million and net sales outside the U.S. were $189.6 million, an increase of 9 percent and 19 percent, respectively, over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, fourth quarter 2007 net sales outside the U.S. increased 9 percent over the prior-year period.
Net sales for the full year 2007 were $2,202.0 million, an increase of 11 percent over the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, full year 2007 net sales increased 9 percent over the prior-year period.
For the fourth quarter 2007, income from continuing operations was $105.2 million and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.01, an increase of 64 percent and 68 percent, respectively, as compared to fourth quarter 2006 results. Adjusting for items that affect comparability between periods as detailed in the tables below, fourth quarter 2007 income from continuing operations and related diluted earnings per share increased 12 percent and 15 percent, respectively, as compared to fourth quarter 2006 results.
For the full year 2007, income from continuing operations was $406.4 million and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $3.84, an increase of 29 percent and 31 percent, respectively, as compared to full year 2006 results. Adjusting for items that affect comparability between periods, full year 2007 income from continuing operations and related diluted earnings per share increased 15 percent and 16 percent, respectively, as compared to full year 2006 results.
Timothy M. Ring, chairman and chief executive officer, commented, "We are pleased to conclude our centennial year with solid fourth quarter and full year results. Our 2007 performance marks the fifth consecutive year that Bard has delivered adjusted EPS growth above the company's target of 14 percent. This success demonstrates the effectiveness of our strategy, and the ability of our organization to execute. We look forward to making 2008 another successful year for Bard and its shareholders."
C. R. Bard, Inc. (), headquartered in Murray Hill, NJ, is a leading multinational developer, manufacturer and marketer of innovative, life-enhancing medical technologies in the fields of vascular, urology, oncology and surgical specialty products.
www.crbard.com
This press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are based on management's current expectations, the accuracy of which is necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as "anticipate", "estimate", "expect", "project", "intend", "forecast", "plan", "believe", and other words of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including product developments, sales efforts, income tax matters, the outcomes of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and other economic, business, competitive and regulatory factors. The company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. Please refer to the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information in our September 30, 2007 Form 10-Q/A for more detailed information about these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the first quarter of 2007, the company completed its previously disclosed plan to withdraw from the synthetic bulking market and discontinue the sale of the Tegress synthetic bulking product, which was formerly reported in the Urology product group category. Consequently, the company accounts for this withdrawal as a discontinued operation for all periods referred to in this release.
This press release contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the above tables.
This press release includes net sales excluding the impact of foreign exchange. The company analyzes net sales on a constant currency basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Because changes in foreign currency exchange rates have a non-operating impact on net sales, the company believes that evaluating growth in net sales on a constant currency basis provides an additional and meaningful assessment of net sales to both management and the company's investors.
In addition, this press release includes the following non-GAAP measures: (1) research & development expense excluding payments for purchased research and development; (2) other (income) expense, net excluding investment gains, a charge for the settlement of a legal matter, and a charge related to the settlement of a tax matter by the company's joint venture operating in Japan; (3) income tax provision excluding reductions relating to expired statutes of limitations, reductions relating to changes in statutory tax rates and the tax effect of the items set forth in (1) and (2) above; (4) income from continuing operations excluding the items set forth in (1) through (3) above; and (5) diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding the items set forth in (1) through (3) above.
The company excluded the items described above because they may cause certain statements of income categories not to be indicative of ongoing operating results, and therefore affect the comparability of results between periods. The company therefore believes that these non-GAAP measures provide an additional and meaningful assessment of the company's ongoing operating performance. Because the company has historically reported these non-GAAP results to the investment community, management also believes that the inclusion of these non-GAAP measures provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates investors' understanding of the company's historic operating trends by providing an additional basis for comparisons to prior periods. Management uses these non-GAAP measures: (1) to establish financial and operational goals; (2) to monitor the company's actual performance in relation to its business plan and operating budgets; (3) to evaluate the company's core operating performance and understand key trends within the business; and (4) as part of several components it considers in determining incentive compensation.
Management recognizes that the use of these non-GAAP measures has limitations, including the fact that they may not be comparable with similar non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and that management must exercise judgment in determining which types of charges or other items should be excluded from the non-GAAP financial information. Management compensates for these limitations by providing full disclosure of each non-GAAP financial measure and a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. All non-GAAP financial measures are intended to supplement the applicable GAAP disclosures and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a replacement for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, please see the above tables.


