FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20091015132642.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On October 14, 2009, the Board of Directors of C. R. Bard, Inc. (the "Company") elected John C. Kelly, as a director. Mr. Kelly is currently the Vice President and Controller of Wyeth, a pharmaceutical and healthcare products company, and has held various other positions including Vice President, Finance Operations since joining Wyeth in 2002. Prior to joining Wyeth, he was at Arthur Andersen LLP for more than 35 years where he served as a Partner in the firm, the Partner in Charge of the Audit & Business Consulting Practice of Metro New York, and Managing Partner and Head of Accounting & Audit Practice for the firm's New Jersey-based operations. Mr. Kelly will serve on the Audit Committee and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Mr. Kelly will participate on the same basis as all other non-employee directors in the Company's 2005 Directors Stock Award Plan and Stock Equivalent Plan, and may defer all or a portion of his cash fees under the Company's Deferred Compensation Contract, Deferral of Directors' Fees. These plans and compensation arrangements are described in more detail under the heading "Director Compensation" in the Company's proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 13, 2009.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


