FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20100423154544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)
2003 Long Term Incentive Plan
On April 21, 2010, C. R. Bard, Inc. (the "Company") held its 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting"), at which the Company's shareholders approved the amendment and restatement of the 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan of C. R. Bard, Inc. (the "Incentive Plan") to increase the number of shares of common stock authorized to be issued under the Incentive Plan by 3,150,000 shares for a total of 19,475,000 authorized shares under the Incentive Plan. The Board of Directors of the Company previously approved the amendment and restatement of the Incentive Plan on February 10, 2010. The purpose of the Incentive Plan is to provide a variety of long term incentive awards to attract and retain qualified employees.
The material features of the Incentive Plan described above are described in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting, which description is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The above description of the Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of such plan filed herewith as Exhibit 10bw and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(a) The registrant held its Annual Meeting on April 21, 2010.
(b) Proxies for the Annual Meeting were solicited pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act; there was no solicitation in opposition to management's nominees for directors as listed in the Proxy Statement and all such nominees were elected. The final results of the voting for four Class II Directors for a term of three years and one Class III Director for a term of one year are set forth below:
 
Class I Directors whose terms continued after the Annual Meeting are Marc C. Breslawsky, Herbert L. Henkel, Timothy M. Ring and Tommy G. Thompson, and Class III Directors whose terms continued after the Annual Meeting are, T. Kevin Dunnigan, Gail K. Naughton, Ph.D. and John H. Weiland.
(c) Described below are the other matters voted upon at the Annual Meeting and the final number of affirmative votes, negative votes, and abstentions and broker non-votes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)
Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
April 23, 2010
 


