FILE:BCR/BCR-8K-20110111090049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 7, 2011, Davol Inc., a subsidiary of C. R. Bard, Inc. (the "Company"), initiated a voluntary recall of its XenMatrix Surgical Graft product. The Company's previously issued net sales and earnings per share guidance for the fourth quarter 2010 and for the full year 2011 remains unchanged as a result of this action.
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are based on management's current expectations, the accuracy of which is necessarily subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are not historical in nature and use words such as "anticipate", "estimate", "expect", "project", "intend", "forecast", "plan", "believe" and other words of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of the Company's voluntary recall of the XenMatrix Surgical Graft product. Many factors may cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results including the ability of the Company to implement the voluntary recall, the ability of the Company to provide replacement product, and the estimated financial impact of the voluntary recall. The Company undertakes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements. Please refer to the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information in the Company's September 30, 2010 Form 10-Q for more detailed information about these and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
January 10, 2011


