FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20091105171537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.02   Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Item 5
(e)           Under the Companys 1993 Executive Contributory Retirement Income Plan (ECRIP), certain executives may elect to defer a portion of their salary and/or executive incentive payments and receive the matching contributions they would otherwise receive if such deferrals had been made under our tax-qualified Savings and Investment Plan (in lieu of any matching contributions under the tax-qualified plan), without regard to IRS-imposed limits.  Amounts deferred and related Company contributions receive interest at 130% of the monthly Moodys Corporate Bond Yield Average (the Moodys Rate) if the executive reaches retirement eligibility as defined in the plan or his or her employment ends due to death or disability.  If the executives employment terminates prior to death, disability or retirement, such amounts receive interest at 100% of the Moodys Rate.  At its October 30, 2009 meeting, the Companys Board of Directors approved an amendment to the ECRIP to discontinue the crediting of 130% of the Moodys Rate on deferrals and Company contributions made after December 31, 2009, such that the 100% of Moodys Rate would apply for these amounts under all circumstances.  Deferrals and Company contributions made prior to January 1, 2010 remain entitled to receive 130% of the Moodys Rate if the executive reaches retirement eligibility or his or her employment ends due to death or disability.
Item 9.01Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10
 
 
 
Illinois Tool Works Inc. hereby amends and restates, effective as of January 1, 2010, the Illinois Tool Works Inc. Executive Contributory Retirement Income Plan, originally established April 1, 1993 and previously amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2008.  The Company intends for the Plan to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable regulations (Section 409A); and to satisfy the applicable grandfather rules so that each Participants Pre-1/1/2005 Sub-Account will not be subject to Section 409A.
 
 
 
 
1.1
 
 means the account(s) maintained on the books of the Company for each Participant or Beneficiary pursuant to Article II.  Except as otherwise indicated, any reference in the Plan to a Participants or Beneficiarys Account shall be deemed to refer to the aggregate of his/her Pre-1/1/2005 and Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Accounts, as such terms are defined in Article II.
Account
 
1.2
 
 means any pay that could be deferred as Compensation under the ITW Savings and Investment Plan (without regard to the Code Section 415 and Code Section 401(a)(17) limits), except for pay otherwise defined as Incentive under this Plan.
Basic Compensation
 
1.3
 
 means the person or persons so designated by a Participant pursuant to Section 3.6.
Beneficiary
 
1.4
 
 means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
 
1.5
 
 means the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
CEO
 
1.6
 
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
1.7
 
 means the Employee Benefits Steering Committee of the Company.
Committee
 
1.8
 
 means Illinois Tool Works Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto, and any corporation or other entity that together with Illinois Tool Works Inc. is a member of a controlled group of corporations under Code Section 414(b) or a group of trades or businesses under common control pursuant to Code Section 414(c).
Company
 
1.9
 
 means the contribution made by the Company to a Participants applicable Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Account pursuant to Section 2.5.
Company Basic Contribution
 
1.10
 
 means the contribution made by the Company to a Participants applicable Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Account pursuant to Section 2.4.
Company Matching Contribution
 
 
 
 
 
1.11
 
 shall mean either a Change in Ownership, Change in Effective Control or a Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets as defined in Section 409A and summarized herein.  A Change in Ownership occurs on the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group (as defined in Section 409A), acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company.  A Change in Effective Control occurs on the date that either (i) any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of the Company possessing 35% or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Company; or (ii) a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election.  A Change of Ownership of a Substantial Portion of Assets occurs on the date that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions.
Corporate Change
 
1.12
 
 means any calendar year.
Deferral Year
 
1.13
 
 means the date on which the amount of a Participants or Beneficiarys Account is determined as provided in Article II which, effective July 1, 2005, shall be each business day.
Determination Date
 
1.14
 
 means the Participants Separation from Service because he/she (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under a Company-sponsored accident and health plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Participants Pre-1/1/2005 Sub-Account, Disability shall have the same meaning as Disabled under the ITW Retirement Accumulation Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004.
Disability
 
1.15
 
 means the date of a Participants Separation from Service on or after attaining age 55 and 10 or more years of service before attaining age 65.
Early Retirement Date
 
1.16
 
 means any Company executive designated as eligible for Plan participation by the CEO.  The CEO or the Board can subsequently determine that an executive is not an Eligible Executive.  Such determination shall only apply on a prospective basis (i.e., with respect to future deferrals) and any Basic Compensation or Incentive previously deferred by such executive shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Eligible Executive shall only be considered such if he/she is part of a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Sections 201, 301 and 401 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA).
Eligible Executive
 
1.17
 
 means any performance-based bonus or other amount(s) earned during a calendar year by the Participant under any incentive plan sponsored by the Company.
Incentive
 
1.18
 
 means either the Retirement Interest Yield or the Termination Interest Yield as defined below:
Interest Yield
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moodys means the average of the monthly Moodys Long-Term Corporate Bond Yields for the preceding calendar quarter as determined from the Moodys Bond Record published by Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (or any successor thereto).
 
1.19
 
 means the date of a Participants Separation from Service on or after attaining age 65 and 5 or more years of service.
Normal Retirement Date
 
1.20
 
 means an Eligible Executive who has commenced Basic Compensation and/or Incentive deferrals pursuant to Article II and any other individual (other than a Beneficiary) who has an Account.
Participant
 
1.21
 
 means the Illinois Tool Works Inc. Executive Contributory Retirement Income Plan as amended from time to time.
Plan
 
1.22
 
 means the payment of the Participants or Beneficiarys Account pursuant to Sections 3.1 and 3.2.
Retirement Benefit
 
1.23
 
  means the Participants cessation of services with the Company for any reason.
Separation from Service
 
1.24
 
 means a severe financial hardship to a Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, or the Participants spouse, Beneficiary, or dependent (as defined in Code Section 152 without regard to Code Sections 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and (d)(1)(B)); loss of the Participants property due to casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise covered by insurance, for example, not as a result of a natural disaster) or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.
Unforeseeable Emergency
 
1.25
 
 has the meaning set forth in the ITW Savings and Investment Plan.
Vesting Service
 
 
 
 
2.1
 
.
Deferral Elections
 
 
 
 
2.2
 
. A Participant may elect to defer between 6% and 50% of his/her Basic Compensation in 1% increments during a Deferral Year. In addition, a Participant may elect to defer between 6% and 85% of his/her Incentive in 1% increments. The Company may reduce a Participants Incentive deferral if, and to the extent, the Participant elects to defer an amount that would not allow for payment by the Company of all FICA, federal, state and/or local income tax withholdings.
Minimum and Maximum Deferral
 
2.3
 
. The amount of Basic Compensation and Incentive that a Participant elects to defer shall cause an equivalent reduction in the Participants Basic Compensation and Incentive. Basic Compensation and Incentive deferrals shall be credited to a Participants applicable Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Account at the end of each calendar quarter with respect to deferrals for periods prior to July 1, 2005, and thereafter as of the date the deferred Basic Compensation or Incentive would have otherwise been paid to the Participant or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.
Timing of Deferral Credits
 
2.4
 
.  All Participants shall be immediately eligible for Company Matching Contributions. Each Participant shall be fully and immediately vested in his/her Company Matching Contributions.  If a Participant defers compensation under this Plan, the Participant will be ineligible for Company Matching Contributions with respect to the same type of compensation, i.e. Basic Compensation or Incentive, that is deferred during the applicable Deferral Year under the ITW Savings and Investment Plan or any other plan that would be considered a defined contribution plan under Code Section 414(i) regardless of whether such plan or agreement constitutes a qualified plan under Code Section 401(a).  Each Participant shall be designated as a Group I or Group II Participant according to the provisions of the ITW Savings and Investment Plan.  Any such change in designation shall only be made on a prospective basis (i.e., with respect to future deferrals).
Company Matching Contributions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company Matching Contributions shall be allocated to a Participants applicable Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Account.
 
2.5
 
.  Each Group II Participant with one year of service, including any Group II Participants who do not elect to defer Basic Compensation or Incentive under Section 2.2, shall be eligible to receive a Company Basic Contribution for each payroll period equal to the difference between (i) the Company Basic Contribution paid to the Group II Participant under the ITW Savings and Investment Plan for such payroll period and (ii) the Company Basic Contribution that would be payable under the ITW Savings and Investment Plan for such payroll period if the ITW Savings and Investment Plan included deferrals under Section 2.2 in the calculation of the Company Basic Contribution and the limits under Code Section 401(a)(17) and Code Section 415 did not apply.  Company Basic Contributions shall be allocated to a Group II Participants applicable Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Account.  A Group II Participant shall be fully vested in his/her Company Basic Contributions upon completion of three years of Vesting Service.
Company Basic Contributions
 
2.6
 
Determination of Account Balance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1
 
.  In the event of a Participants Early or Normal Retirement Date, or death or Separation from Service on account of Disability prior to either date, a Participants Pre-1/1/2005 Sub-Account shall be paid out in accordance with the payment form and commencement of payment date elected for his/her Pre-1/1/2005 Sub-Account.  In the absence of an applicable payment form and commencement of payment election, a Participants Pre-1/1/2005 Sub-Account shall be paid in a lump sum on the first day of the month following Separation from Service.  A Participant may elect, at least 13 months prior to the payment commencement date of his/her Pre-1/1/2005 Sub-Account, to change the method of distribution previously elected for the Pre-2005 Sub-Account to either a lump sum or monthly installments over two to 20 years. A Participant may elect to defer payment commencement of his/her Pre-2005 Sub-Account to a date later than Separation from Service up to his/her 70th birthday provided (i) that the duration of any installment payments to the Participant shall provide for full payment of the Pre-2005 Sub-Account prior to the Participants 85th birthday, and (ii) that Separation from Service occurs prior to his/her Normal Retirement Date. Any election made within 13 months of the Participants payment commencement date shall be void and his/her most recent prior election shall be reinstated. The
Retirement Benefit Payment Election for Pre-
1/1/
2005 Sub-Account
1/1/
1/1/
1/1/
Participants election may be subject to Committee approval.
 
 
 
 
 
3.2
 
.  In the event of a Participants Early or Normal Retirement Date, or death or Separation from Service on account of Disability prior to either date, a Participants Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Accounts shall be paid out in accordance with the payment form and commencement of payment elections for his/her Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Accounts.  At the time an Eligible Executive submits his/her initial deferral election for a Post 1/1/2005 Sub-Account, he/she shall elect (i) the form of payment in which that Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Account shall be paid, which may be either a lump sum or monthly installments over two to 20 years, and (ii) a payment commencement date, which may be later than Separation from Service and up to his/her 70th birthday. Following are additional rules applicable to the payment of a Participants  Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Accounts:
Retirement Benefit Payment Elections for Post-
1/1/2005
Sub-Accounts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3
 
. Upon a Participant's Separation from Service prior to becoming eligible for a Retirement Benefit, the Company shall pay a lump sum to the Participant on the first day of the month following Separation from Service of his/her Account determined under Section using the Termination Interest Yield.  A Participant who is a key employee (as defined in ) shall not receive the portion of his/her lump sum consisting of his/her Post-Sub-Accounts until the after the date of the Participants Separation from Service (other than due to death). The delayed portion of the lump sum payment shall be credited with interest at the Termination Interest Yield through the delayed payment commencement date.
Termination Benefit
2.
6
Section 409A
1/1/2005
first day of the seventh month commencing
 
3.4
 
. At the time that a Participant submits a deferral election for any Deferral Year, he/she may elect irrevocably to receive a return of his/her deferrals for such Deferral Year. The return of deferral election does not apply to Company Matching Contributions, Company Basic Contributions, or the interest credited to the Participants Account for such Deferral Year. The return of deferral election shall specify the calendar year in which payment shall be made, which may be no earlier than the calendar year that commences five or more calendar years after the Deferral Year in which the Basic Compensation and/or Incentive deferral was initially credited to the Participants Account.  Return of Deferral payments shall be made in July of the specified calendar year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participants return of deferral election shall be void if his/her Separation from Service occurs prior to the return of deferral payment date and the participants deferrals shall instead be paid in accordance with the payment form and commencement of payment election made by the Participant for his/her applicable sub-account.  Company Matching Contributions, Basic Company Contributions, and interest credits for such Deferral Year.
Return of Deferrals
 
3.5
 
. In the event that the Company, upon a request by a Participant according to the method prescribed by the Company, determines in its sole discretion, that the Participant has suffered an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Company may pay to the Participant, as soon as practicable following such determination, an amount, not in excess of the Participants Account, necessary to satisfy the emergency, plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the payment, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participants assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship), or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan.
Emergency Benefit
 
3.6
 
. If a Participant dies prior to the commencement or completion of payments (and was not awaiting payment of a termination benefit under Section 3.3), then the Participants Account (determined using the Retirement Interest Yields applicable to the Pre-1/1/2005 and Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Accounts) shall be paid (or continue to be paid if payments had previously commenced) to his/her Beneficiary on the first day of the month following the date of the Participants death (i) pursuant to the applicable payment election made by the Participant or (ii) in a lump sum if the Participant had not elected a form of payment. The Participant may designate (or change) a Beneficiary according to the method prescribed by the Company. If no designation is in effect or if an existing designation is determined to be invalid or ineffective at the time any payments under this Plan become due, the Beneficiary shall be the spouse of the Participant, or if no spouse is then living, the Participants estate.
Payment to Beneficiary
 
3.7
 
. Notwithstanding anything in this Article III to the contrary, if the aggregate balance of a Participants Account is $25,000 or less on the Participants Separation from Service or death, such amount shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant or his/her Beneficiary on the first day of the month following the Participants Retirement Date or death in full settlement of his/her benefits under this Plan.
Small Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
3.8           .  If, prior to a Corporate Change, a Participant shall be discharged for gross misconduct or a Participant or Beneficiary shall at any time, regardless of whether before or after the Participants Early or Normal Retirement Date, divulge confidential Company information to other persons or otherwise act against the business interests of the Company, the portion of the Participants or Beneficiarys Account attributable to Company Basic Contributions and Company Matching Contributions may be forfeited by the Committee or the CEO.
Forfeiture of Benefits
 
3.9          .  For purposes of this Article III, a payment shall be treated as made (or commencing) on the payment commencement date specified in Section 3.2, 3.3, 3.4 or 3.6, as applicable, if the payment is made (or commences) on (i) such date, (ii) a later date within the same taxable year of the Participant, or (iii) if later, by the fifteenth day of the third calendar month following such date, provided that the Participant is not permitted, directly or indirectly, to designate the taxable year of the payment.
Payment on Specified Date
 
 
 
 
4.1
 
. All claims for benefits shall be submitted in writing to the Committee which shall process them and approve or disapprove them within 90 days following the date that the claim is received by the Committee. If special circumstances arise and the Committee cannot process the claim within 90 days, the Committee shall notify the claimant on or before the close of the initial 90-day period that the time for making the decision is extended for up to 90 additional days. If the Committee fails to notify the claimant within the applicable period, the claim is considered denied. If the Committee makes a determination to deny benefits to a claimant, the denial shall be stated in writing by the Committee and delivered or mailed to the claimant. Such notice shall set forth the specific reasons for the denial; be written in a manner that may be understood by the claimant; refer to the specific Plan provisions upon which denial is based; and describe the steps necessary for appeal.
Claim for Benefits
 
4.2
 
. The claimant whose claim for benefits has been denied shall have a period of 60 days from the date of the Committees denial in which to appeal to the Committee. The claimant or his/her duly authorized representative shall have an opportunity to review pertinent documents and submit additional information, issues and comments to the Committee.
Request for Review of a
Claim
Denial
 in writing
 
4.3
 
. The Committee (or its delegate) shall review all evidence submitted by the claimant and shall communicate its decision to the claimant in writing within 60 days of the date on which the request for review was received, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision shall be rendered as soon as possible, but not later than 120 days after receipt of a request for review. The Committees decision regarding the claim shall be final and binding.
Decision Upon Review of
a
 
Claim
Denial
 
4.4           .  No action at law or in equity may be brought to recover benefits under the Plan until the Participant has exercised all appeal rights and the Plan benefits requested in such appeal have been denied in whole or in part.  Benefits under the Plan shall be paid only if the Committee, in its discretion, determines that a claimant is entitled to them.  If a judicial proceeding is undertaken to appeal the denial of a claim or bring any other action under ERISA other than a breach of fiduciary duty claim, the evidence presented will be strictly limited to the evidence timely presented to the Committee.  In addition, any such judicial proceeding must be filed within 180 days after the Committees final decision.
Timing of Judicial Action
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee, which shall administer the Plan, shall have the power and duty to adopt such rules and regulations consistent with Plan terms; to maintain records concerning the Plan; to construe and interpret the Plan and resolve all questions arising under the Plan; to direct the payment of Plan benefits; and to comply with the requirements of any applicable federal or state law. Neither the Company, nor any employee or Board or Committee member shall be liable to any Eligible Executive, active or former Participant, Beneficiary or any other person for any claim, loss, liability or expense incurred in connection with the Plan.
 
 
 
 
6.1
 
. The Board may amend the Plan in whole or in part at any time, including without limitation an amendment to discontinue future deferrals.  Any amendment shall comply with Section 409A.  Specifically, no amendment may decrease the balance of a Participants or Beneficiarys Account (except as required by Section 409A), and no amendment shall be made if it would constitute a material modification, as defined under Section 409A, of the Plan terms in effect on October 3, 2004 which govern payment of the Pre-1/1/2005 Sub-Account as set forth in Article III.
Amendment
 
6.2
 
. The Board may terminate the Plan at any time, subject to the termination restrictions of Code Section 409A. Upon termination, a Participants or Beneficiarys Pre-1/1/2005 Sub-Account, if any, shall be paid to him/her in monthly installments over a period of not more than 15 years, except that the Company in its sole discretion may pay out such benefit in a lump sum or in installments over a period shorter than 15 years. A Participants or Beneficiarys Post-1/1/2005 Sub-Accounts shall be paid to the Participant or Beneficiary in a lump sum upon Plan termination, provided that (i) the termination and liquidation of the Plan does not occur proximate to a downturn in the financial health of the Company; (ii) the Company terminates all non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements of the same type at the same time that this Plan is terminated; (iii) the Company makes no payments to Participants and Beneficiaries for 12 months but makes all payments within 24 months; and (iv) the Company adopts no new non-qualified deferred compensation arrangement of the same type for three years.  Upon termination of the Plan, any Participant who has not incurred a Separation from Service and was not previously eligible for a Retirement Benefit shall have the applicable Retirement Interest Yields credited to his/her post-1/1/2005 Sub-Accounts pursuant to Section 2.6(c) as if the Participant then became eligible for a Retirement Benefit.
Termination
 
6.3
 
. The Board may terminate the Plan in conjunction with a Corporate Change, provided that (i) the Company terminates the Plan within the 30 days preceding or the 12 months following a Corporate Change; and (ii) the Company terminates all non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements of the same type at the same time that this Plan is terminated with respect to each Participant that experienced Corporate Change.  Following such termination, each current Participant, former Participant and Beneficiary shall receive a lump-sum payment of his/her Account within the 12 months following the termination of the Plan.  Account balances shall be determined under Section 2.6 as of the applicable payment date as if each such Participant and Beneficiary was then eligible for a Retirement Benefit hereunder.
Corporate Change
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.1
 
. Plan shall not a transfer or sale of assets of the Company or the reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other corporation or other entity the transferee, purchaser or successor agrees to continue the Plan. In the event that the transferee, purchaser or successor does not continue the Plan, then the Plan shall terminate to the extent permitted under Section 6.2 and the applicable restrictions under Section 409A.
Corporate Successor
The
terminate, but shall continue, upon
upon
; provided that it is not terminated pursuant to Section 6.3 and
 
7.2
 
. Neither the establishment of the Plan nor any amendment thereof shall be construed as giving any Participant, Beneficiary or any other person any legal or equitable right unless such right shall be specifically provided for in the Plan or conferred by specific action of the Committee in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Plan. Except as expressly provided in this Plan, the Company shall not be required or be liable to make any payment under this Plan. The provisions of this Plan document supersede and preempt any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or between the Company and any Participant or Beneficiary, written or oral, which may have related in any manner to the subject matter hereof.
No Implied Rights
 
7.3
 
. Neither the Participant nor any other person shall acquire by reason of the Plan any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of the Company including, without limitation, any specific funds, assets or other property that the Company, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability hereunder. Any benefits which become payable hereunder shall be paid from the general assets of the Company. The Participant shall have only a contractual right to the amounts, if any, payable hereunder unsecured by any asset of the Company. In order to provide for the payments hereunder, the Company has established an irrevocable trust, the assets of which are part of the Companys general assets and therefore subject to the claims of the Companys general creditors in the event of insolvency. To the extent any Plan-required payments are made from the trust, the Company shall have no further obligations to pay such amounts directly to the Participant or Beneficiary.
No Right to Company Assets
 
7.4
 
. Nothing herein shall constitute a contract of continuing service or in any manner obligate the Company to continue the services of the Participant or obligate the Participant to continue in the service of the Company, or as a limitation of the right of the Company to discharge any of its employees, with or without cause.
No Employment Rights
employment or of
 
7.5
 
. If, at the time payments are to be made hereunder, a Participant or Beneficiary or both are indebted or obligated to the Company, then such payments may at the discretion of the Committee be reduced by the amount of such indebtedness or obligation; provided, however, that an election by the Committee not to reduce any such payments shall not constitute a waiver of its claim for such indebtedness or obligation. In the event of an overpayment of benefits under the ITW Retirement Accumulation Plan or any other Company-sponsored plan, the Committee may determine that all or part of the amount of the overpayment may be recovered by an offset to any payment to be made pursuant to this Plan.
Offset
 
 
 
 
 
7.6
 
. Neither the Participant nor any other person shall have any voluntary or involuntary right to commute, sell, assign, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate or convey in advance of actual receipt the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are expressly declared to be unassignable and non-transferable. No part of the amounts payable shall be, prior to actual payment, subject to the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by the Participant or any other person, or be transferable by operation of law in the event of the Participants or any other persons bankruptcy or insolvency.  This Section shall not apply to the creation, assignment, or recognition of a right of any benefit payable pursuant to a domestic relations order, if such order (i) meets the requirements of Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code, and (ii) does not require the payment of a benefit to an alternate payee prior to the time benefits are payable pursuant to Article III, as determined by the Committee.
Non-Assignability
 
7.7
 
. If a current or former Participant or a Beneficiary is deemed by the Committee to be incapable of personally receiving any payment under the Plan, then, unless and until claim therefor shall have been made by a duly appointed guardian or other legal representative of such person, the Committee may provide for such payment or any part thereof to be made to any other person or institution providing for the care and maintenance of such person. Any such payment shall be for the account of such person and shall be a complete discharge of any liability of the Company and the Plan therefor.
Incapacity of Recipient
 
7.8
 
. The Company shall withhold any federal, state or local taxes applicable to any payments pursuant to the Plan. Notwithstanding any other Plan provision to the contrary, the payment of any Participants benefit may be accelerated by the Company to the extent of any required FICA withholdings applicable to such benefit (plus any other withholdings applicable to the withheld FICA amount).
Withholding of Taxes
 
7.9
 
. Except to the extent not pre-empted by ERISA or other federal law, the Plan shall be construed and administered according to the laws of the State of Illinois.
Governing Laws
 
           . Whenever possible, each provision of this Plan shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Plan is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of any other provision of this Plan or the validity, legality or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction, but this Plan shall be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
7.10
Severability
 
 
.
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC
 
By:  ___________________________________
           Senior Vice President, Human Resources
 
 
Date: __________________________________



