FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20110209131831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The forms of grant for stock options, restricted stock units, or RSUs, performance restricted stock units, or PRSUs, and the Company-wide Growth Plan, or CGP, were amended to update the language of the forms to reflect amendments to the Illinois Tool Works Inc. Long-term Incentive Plan (formerly the Illinois Tool Works Inc. 2006 Stock Incentive Plan). In addition to changing the name of the Plan, the language in the forms requiring adjustments to the number of shares and/or option price upon certain changes in capital structure has been amended, the language regarding forfeiture upon certain actions of the participant has been amended, and the name of the PRSU grant has been changed to Performance Restricted Stock Unit from Qualifying Restricted Stock Unit. The forms of stock option, RSU, PRSU and CGP awards are included as exhibits to this report.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
The exercise of this option generally results in ordinary income being recognized for tax purposes in an amount equal to the excess of the market price at the time of exercise over the option price.

Exhibit 99.2
The vesting of this RSU generally results in ordinary income being recognized for tax purposes in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares issued in payment of the RSU as of the vesting date.

Exhibit 99.3
The vesting of this PRSU generally results in ordinary income being recognized for tax purposes in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares issued in payment of the PRSU as of the vesting date.

Exhibit 99.4
The vesting of this CGP grant generally results in ordinary income being recognized for tax purposes in an amount equal to the cash issued in payment of the CGP grant as of the vesting date.


