FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20110512160338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
(e) At the 2011 Annual Meeting, the Company's stockholders approved the Illinois Tool Works Inc. 2011 Cash Incentive Plan. A detailed description of the material terms of the Cash Incentive Plan is included under "Approval of Illinois Tool Works Inc. 2011 Cash Incentive Plan" in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a) At its May 6, 2011 meeting, the Company's Board of Directors approved an amendment to the first sentence of Article III, Section 2 of the Company's By-Laws, effective May 6, 2011, to decrease the number of directors from eleven to ten. The text of Article III, Section 2, as amended, is as follows:
"SECTION 2. . The number of directors of the corporation is established at ten. Each director shall hold office for the term for which such director is elected or until a successor shall have been chosen and shall have qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal."
Number, Tenure and Qualifications
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company was held on May 6, 2011 for the purposes of (i) electing the ten directors named in the Company's proxy statement to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders; (ii) ratifying the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2011 fiscal year; (iii) approving, on an advisory basis, a resolution approving executive compensation of the named executive officers as disclosed in the proxy statement; (iv) an advisory vote on the frequency of the vote on executive compensation; (v) approving the Company's 2011 Cash Incentive Plan; and (vi) re-approving the performance factors and award limits under the Company's 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
All ten nominees for director as named in the Company's proxy statement for the meeting were elected by the votes set forth in the table below.
The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2011 fiscal year was ratified by the votes set forth in the table below.
A Company proposal requesting that stockholders approve a non-binding resolution approving the compensation of the Company's named executive officers as disclosed pursuant to the compensation disclosure rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission under "Compensation Discussion & Analysis", the Summary Compensation Table, the related compensation tables and the related narrative disclosures, in the March 23, 2011 proxy statement, passed with the following vote.
A Company proposal requesting a non-binding vote of the stockholders to determine whether the advisory stockholder vote on executive compensation shall occur every 1, 2 or 3 years, resulted in stockholders expressing a preference for a 1 Year frequency. Based on these results, and consistent with the Company's recommendation, the Company has determined to hold a stockholder advisory vote on the compensation of its named executive officers as disclosed in its proxy statement annually. The following table shows the voting results on the frequency of the executive compensation vote from its 2011 Annual Meeting.
A Company proposal requesting approval of the Illinois Tool Works Inc. 2011 Cash Incentive Plan was approved by the votes set forth in the table below.
A Company proposal requesting re-approval of the performance factors and award limits under the Illinois Tool Works Inc. 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan was approved by the votes set forth in the table below.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 3
. The registered office shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
SECTION 1.
Registered Office
. The corporation may also have offices in Glenview, Illinois, and offices at such other places as the board of directors or officers may from time to time determine.
SECTION 2.
Other Offices
. The annual meeting of the stockholders shall be in the month of April or May of each year. The place, date and time of the meeting shall be fixed by the board of directors and stated in the notice of the meeting.
SECTION 1.
Annual Meeting
. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the chairman, the president or by a majority of the board of directors.
SECTION 2.
Special Meetings
. The board of directors may designate any place, either within or outside of Delaware, as the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders (annual or special) or may provide for a meeting by means of remote communication. In the absence of any such designation, the place of meeting shall be the principal place of business of the corporation.
SECTION 3.
Place of Meeting
. Written or printed notice stating the place, if any, or the means of remote communication, if any, day and hour of the meeting shall be delivered either personally or by mail, or, with the consent of the stockholder, by electronic transmission, by or at the direction of the chairman or persons calling the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mails in a sealed envelope addressed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. If given by electronic transmission, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered on the day such notice is transmitted.
SECTION 4.
Notice of Meetings
. Shares of stock standing in the name of another corporation, domestic or foreign, may be voted by such officer, agent or proxy as the by-laws of such corporation may prescribe, or, in the absence of such provision, as the board of directors of such corporation may determine.
SECTION 5.
Voting of Shares by Certain Holders
Shares of stock standing in the name of a deceased person may be voted by his administrator or executor, either in person or by proxy. Persons holding stock in a fiduciary capacity shall be entitled to vote the shares so held. Persons whose stock is pledged shall be entitled to vote, unless in the transfer by the pledgor on the books of the corporation he has expressly empowered the pledgee to vote thereon, in which case only the pledgee, or his proxy, may represent such stock and vote thereon.
Shares of stock standing in the name of a receiver may be voted by such receiver, and shares of stock held by or under the control of a receiver may be voted by such receiver without the transfer thereof into his name if authority so to do be contained in an appropriate order of the court by which such receiver was appointed.
. Unless any statute requires otherwise, for the purpose of determining (a) stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders, or (b) stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or (c) stockholders, with respect to any lawful action, the board of directors may fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of stockholders, such date in any case to be not more than sixty days and, in case of a meeting of stockholders, not less than ten days and, in the case of a merger, consolidation, sale, lease or exchange of assets, not less than twenty days. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; (2) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the board of directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
SECTION 6.
Fixing of Record Date
. The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these by-laws. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present or represented. No notice other than an announcement at the meeting need be given unless the adjournment is for more than thirty days or a new record date is to be fixed for the adjourned meeting. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
SECTION 7.
Quorum
When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present in person or represented by proxy shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of the statutes or of the Certificate of Incorporation or of these by-laws, a different vote is required in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.
. At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing or via electronic transmission by the stockholder or by his duly authorized attorney-in-fact. Such proxy shall be filed with the secretary of the corporation before or at the time of the meeting. Proxies shall be valid only with respect to the meeting or meetings and any adjournment thereof, for which they are given.
SECTION 8.
Proxies
. Each stockholder shall have one vote in person or by proxy for each share of stock having voting power registered in his name on the books of the corporation at the record date.
SECTION 9.
Voting
.
SECTION 10.
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations for Directors
(a) .
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting of stockholders may be made (i) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the board of directors, or (iii) by any stockholder of the corporation who (x) is a stockholder of record at the time of giving notice provided for in this section 10 and at the time of the annual meeting of stockholders, (y) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (z) complies with the notice procedures as to such business or nomination set forth in this section 10. Clause (iii) of this paragraph shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of stockholders.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a)(1) of this section 10, such other business must be a proper subject for stockholder action under Delaware corporation law, and the stockholder must have given timely notice of such nomination or other business in writing to the secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the one hundred twentieth (120) day and not later than the ninetieth (90) day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting and the tenth (10th) day following the date on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
th
th
To be in proper form, a stockholder's notice to the secretary must set forth:
(i) the following as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or business proposal is made:
(a) the name and address of such stockholder, as it appears on the corporation's books, and of the beneficial owner, if any;
(b) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, as of the date of such notice (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date);
(c) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of such notice by, or on behalf of, the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, or any of their affiliates or associates, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, or any of their affiliates or associates with respect to shares of stock of the corporation, and a representation that the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, will notify the corporation in writing of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed; and
(d) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder;
(ii) the following if the notice relates to any business other than the nomination of a director that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting:
(a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and any material interest of such stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, in such business; and
(b) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder; and
(iii) the following as to each person whom the stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director:
(a) the name, age, and business and residential addresses of such person;
(b) the principal occupation or employment of such person;
(c) the number of shares of capital stock of the corporation beneficially owned by such person;
(d) a statement that such person is willing to be named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected;
(e) a statement as to whether such person, if elected, intends to comply with the procedures established by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee regarding the tender of resignations to the board of directors to address majority voting;
(f) such other information regarding such person that would be required to be included under the proxy solicitation rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission had the board of directors nominated such nominee; and
(g) an undertaking to provide such other information as the corporation may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such person to serve as an independent director of the corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such person.
(b) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting of stockholders pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders only if directors are to be elected at such meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. To be properly brought before a special meeting, nominations of persons for election to the board of directors must be (a) made by or at the direction of the board of directors or (b) provided that the board of directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, made by any stockholder of the corporation who (x) is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this section 10 and at the time of the special meeting, (y) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (z) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this section 10. Clause (b) of this paragraph shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations for director before a special meeting of stockholders.
Special Meetings of Stockholders
For nominations to be properly brought before a special meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (b) of the preceding paragraph, the stockholder must have given timely notice of the nomination to the secretary of the corporation in the form required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section 10. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation not earlier than the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such special meeting and the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(c) .
General
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section 10 shall be eligible to be elected as directors at a meeting of stockholders, and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section 10. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these by-laws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section 10 and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this section 10, to declare that such proposal shall be disregarded. Nothing in this section 10 shall preclude the board of directors or the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee either from making nominations for the election of directors or from excluding the person nominated by a stockholder from the slate of directors presented to the meeting.
(2) For purposes of this section 10, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the PR Newswire or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(3) Nothing in this section 10 shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of preferred stock if and to the extent provided for under law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these by-laws.
. Except as provided in article III, section 8 of these by-laws, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the secretary of the corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the board of directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in article II, section 10 of these by-laws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder as of a date that is ten days in advance of the date the corporation files its definitive proxy statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (regardless of whether or not thereafter revised or supplemented). For purposes of this section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of shares voted "against" that director. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee has established procedures regarding the tender of resignations to the board of directors to address majority voting.
SECTION 11.
Election of Directors
. The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its board of directors.
SECTION 1.
General Powers
. The number of directors of the corporation is established at ten. Each director shall hold office for the term for which such director is elected or until a successor shall have been chosen and shall have qualified or until such director's earlier death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal.
SECTION 2.
Number, Tenure and Qualifications
. A regular meeting of the board of directors shall be held without other notice than this by-law, on the date of, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The board of directors may provide, by resolution, the time and place, either within or outside of Delaware, for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
SECTION 3.
Regular Meeting
. Special meetings of the board of directors may be called by or at the request of the chairman or any two directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the board of directors may fix any place, either within or outside of Delaware, as the place for holding any special meeting of the board of directors called by them.
SECTION 4.
Special Meetings
. Notice of any special meeting shall be given at least two days prior thereto by notice delivered personally, by mail, e-mail, facsimile or other electronic communication to each director at his business address or at such other address as he shall have previously requested in writing. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mails in a sealed envelope so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid. If notice is given by e-mail, facsimile or other electronic transmission, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered on the day such notice is transmitted. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the board of directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting, unless otherwise required by law.
SECTION 5.
Notice
A majority of the board of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the board of directors, provided that if less than a majority of the directors are present at said meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the board of directors unless a greater number is required by the Certificate of Incorporation or these by-laws.
SECTION 6.
Quorum.
. Except as may otherwise be provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, no contract or transaction between the corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the board or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose, if:
SECTION 7.
Interested Directors
(a) The material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the board of directors or the committee, and the board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or
(b) The material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by the vote of the stockholders; or
(c) The contract or transaction is fair as to the corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the board of directors, a committee thereof, or the stockholders.
Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the board of directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
. If vacancies occur in the board of directors caused by death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office of any director or directors or otherwise, or if any new directorship is created by any increase in the authorized number of directors, a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, may choose a successor or successors, or fill the newly created directorship and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until their successors shall be duly elected and qualified, unless sooner displaced.
SECTION 8.
Vacancies
. The board of directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the corporation.
SECTION 9.
Committees
(a) The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member, at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the board of directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board of directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the board of directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation, adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the by-laws of the corporation; and, unless the resolution or the Certificate of Incorporation expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the board of directors. Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the board of directors when required.
(b) . The board of directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, may designate two or more directors to constitute an Executive Committee and one or more directors as alternates thereof. Subject to the limitations provided in these by-laws and such further limitation as might be required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by further resolution of the board of directors, the Executive Committee may, during intervals between meetings of the board of directors, exercise the powers of the board of directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation (including the corporation's dealings with its foreign subsidiaries, affiliates, and licensees) and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. The Executive Committee shall not be empowered to take action with respect to: issuing bonds, debentures; increasing or reducing the capital of the corporation; authorizing commitments and expenditures in excess of the total amount or amounts provided in the capital budgets approved or otherwise authorized by the board of directors; borrowing of monies, except within limits expressly approved by the board of directors; electing officers; fixing the compensation of officers; establishment of stock option plans, profit sharing or similar types of compensation plans, filling vacancies or newly created directorships on the board of directors; removing officers or directors of the corporation; dissolution, or any other action specifically reserved to the board of directors including all matters requiring the approval of stockholders. The Executive Committee may also from time to time formulate and recommend to the board for approval general policies regarding management of the business and affairs of the corporation. The designation of the Executive Committee and the delegation thereto of authority shall not operate to relieve the board of directors or any member thereof of any responsibility imposed upon it or him by operation of law. The secretary of the corporation (or in his absence a person designated by the Executive Committee) shall act as secretary at all meetings of the Executive Committee. A majority of the Executive Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Executive Committee, provided that in the absence or disqualification of any member of the Executive Committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the board of directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Regular meetings of the Executive Committee may be held without notice at such times and at such places as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by a majority of the Executive Committee. Special meetings may be called by any member of the Executive Committee on twenty-four hours' prior written or electronic notice.
Executive Committee
(c) . The board of directors shall appoint a Compensation Committee. The composition and duties of such committee shall be as set forth in the Compensation Committee Charter.
Compensation Committee
(d) . The board of directors shall appoint an Audit Committee. The composition and duties of such committee shall be as set forth in the Audit Committee Charter.
Audit Committee
(e) . The board of directors shall appoint a Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. The composition and duties of such committee shall be as set forth in the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter.
Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee
(f) . The board of directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board, may designate two or more directors to constitute a Finance Committee and one or more directors as alternate members thereof. The duties and responsibilities of the Finance Committee shall be to review, upon the request of the chairman or the president, management's proposals with respect to: the corporation's debt and equity financing; recommendations to the board with respect to dividend policy and payments; acquisitions and divestitures exceeding the standing authority management has by virtue of the resolution dated December 8, 2006, or its successors; recommendations to the board concerning the corporation's investment portfolio; the corporation's real estate investments; and other financing and investment matters. In addition, the Finance Committee shall oversee the investment of all funds identified with the U.S. pension and welfare benefit plans including "Rabbi trusts" associated with deferred compensation plans and monitor the governance and risks associated with non-U.S. employee benefit plans. In fulfilling its pension and benefits responsibilities, the Finance Committee may form and delegate authority or specific assignments to subcommittees, whose members may be Company employees or otherwise.
Finance Committee
. . Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these by-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the board of directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the board or committee thereof, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the board or committee.
SECTION 10
Consent in Lieu of Meeting
. Directors who are also full-time employees of the corporation shall not receive any compensation for their services as directors but they may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses of attendance. By resolution of the board of directors, all other directors may receive compensation for their services together with reimbursement of expenses of attendance, if any, at each regular or special meeting of the board of directors or any committee of the board of directors; provided, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
SECTION 11.
Compensation
. Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, members of the board of directors or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of such board or committee by means of conference telephone or other communication equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant hereto shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. Unless otherwise required by law, no notice shall be required if a quorum of the board or any committee is participating.
SECTION 12.
Meeting by Conference Telephone
The board of directors may, from time to time, elect an emeritus director who shall serve at the pleasure of the board, subject to an annual review at the meeting of the board immediately preceding each annual meeting of stockholders, or until earlier resignation or removal by the board. An emeritus director shall serve as an advisor and consultant to the board of directors and may be appointed by the board to serve as advisor and consultant to committees of the board. An emeritus director may be invited to attend meetings of the board or any committee of the board for which he has been appointed to serve as advisor and consultant and, if present, may participate in the discussions occurring during such meetings. An emeritus director shall not be permitted to vote on matters brought before the board or any committee thereof and shall not be counted for the purpose of determining whether a quorum of the board or the committee is present. An emeritus director shall receive no fee for his services as an emeritus director. An emeritus director will be entitled to receive reimbursement for expenses of meeting attendance, as approved by the chairman of the board. An emeritus director may be removed at any time by the board of directors. References in these by-laws to "directors" or "board of directors" shall not mean or include an emeritus director.
SECTION 13.
Emeritus Director
.
. The officers of the corporation may include a chairman, one or more vice chairmen, president, one or several executive vice presidents or one or several vice presidents (the number thereof to be determined by the board of directors), one or several of the vice presidents may be designated "senior vice president" by the board of directors and one of whom may be elected as chief financial officer of the corporation, a treasurer, a controller, a secretary, and other such officers as may be elected in accordance with the provisions of this article. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
SECTION 1.
Number
. The officers of the corporation shall be elected annually by the board of directors at the meeting of the board of directors that is held on the date of the annual meeting of stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as conveniently may be. Vacancies may be filled or new offices created and filled at any meeting of the board of directors. Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner hereinafter provided.
SECTION 2.
Election and Term of Office
. Any officer or agent elected or appointed by the board of directors may be removed by the board of directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the corporation would be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.
SECTION 3.
Removal
. A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or otherwise, may be filled, and new offices may be created and filled, at any time by the board of directors.
SECTION 4.
Vacancies
. The chairman shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and shall have general supervision over all of the affairs of the corporation and shall determine and administer the policies of the corporation as established by the board of directors or by the Executive Committee. The chairman shall: (i) provide leadership to the board in reviewing and advising upon matters which exert major influence on the manner in which the corporation's business is conducted; (ii) preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the board of directors; (iii) in the absence of the chairman of the Executive Committee, preside at all meetings of the Executive Committee; and (iv) perform such other duties as may be conferred by law or assigned by the board of directors. The chairman may sign, with the secretary or other proper officer of the corporation thereunto authorized by the board of directors, stock certificates of the corporation, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts, or other instruments, except in cases where the signing or execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the board of directors or by these by-laws to some other officer or agent of the corporation, or shall be required by law to be otherwise signed or executed. The chairman may also execute proxies on behalf of the corporation with respect to the voting of any shares of stock owned by the corporation; have the power to appoint agents or employees as in the chairman's judgment may be necessary or appropriate for the transaction of the business of the corporation; and in general shall perform all duties incident to the office of chairman and not inconsistent with these by-laws.
SECTION 5.
Chairman
. The vice chairman or vice chairmen, if more than one, shall assist the chairman in supervising the affairs of the corporation, with special responsibility for integrating acquired businesses into the corporation. In the absence of the chairman and lead director, the vice chairman shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the board of directors. In the event of the absence or disability of the chairman, the vice chairman shall assume all of the duties and responsibilities of that office. In the event there is more than one vice chairman, then the first elected vice chairman shall assume all the duties and responsibilities of the office of the chairman. The vice chairman may sign any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments, except in cases where the signing is required to be by some other officer or agent of the corporation. The vice chairman shall perform such other duties not inconsistent with these by-laws as may be designated by the chairman or the board of directors.
SECTION 6.
Vice Chairman
. The president (if elected by the board of directors) shall undertake and faithfully discharge such duties as assigned by the chairman and shall administer the policies of the corporation as established by the board of directors or by the Executive Committee. The president may sign, with the secretary or other proper officer of the corporation authorized by the board, stock certificates of the corporation, any deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments except in cases where the signing or execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the board or by these by-laws to some other officer or agent of the corporation, or shall be required by law to be otherwise signed or executed. The president may also execute proxies on behalf of the corporation with respect to the voting of any shares of stock owned by the corporation. The president shall have the power to appoint agents or employees as in his judgment may be necessary or appropriate for the transaction of the business of the corporation and in general shall perform all duties incident to the office of president, and such other duties not inconsistent with these by-laws as may be prescribed by the chairman or the board.
SECTION 7.
President
. The executive vice president or executive vice presidents (if elected by the board of directors) shall perform such duties not inconsistent with these by-laws as may be assigned to him or them by the chairman or the board of directors. In the event of absence or disability of the chairman, and vice chairman and chairman of the Executive Committee, the executive vice president (or in the event there be more than one, the executive vice president determined in the order of election) shall assume all the duties and responsibilities of the office of the chairman.
SECTION 8.
Executive Vice President(s)
. The chief financial officer (if elected by the board of directors) shall have general supervision over the financial affairs of the corporation.
SECTION 9.
Chief Financial Officer
. The board of directors may designate any vice president as a senior vice president. In the event of absence or disability of the chairman and vice chairman, the chairman of the Executive Committee and all executive vice presidents, the senior vice president(s) or the vice president(s) in the order of election, shall assume all the duties and responsibilities of the office of the chairman. Any senior vice president or any vice president may sign, with the secretary or an assistant secretary, stock certificates of the corporation; and shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the chairman or by the board of directors. In general, the vice president (or vice presidents, including the senior vice president or senior vice presidents) shall perform such duties not inconsistent with these by-laws as may be assigned to him or them by the chairman, the executive vice presidents or by the board of directors.
SECTION 10.
The Vice President(s)
. If required by the board of directors, the treasurer shall give a bond for the faithful discharge of his duties in such sum and with such surety or sureties as the board of directors shall determine. He shall: (a) have charge and custody of and be responsible for all funds and securities of the corporation; receive and give receipts for monies due and payable to the corporation from any source whatsoever, and deposit all such monies in the name of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as shall be selected in accordance with the provisions of article VI of these by-laws; (b) in general perform all duties incident to the office of treasurer and such other duties not inconsistent with these by-laws as from time to time may be assigned to him by the board of directors, or by the chairman, or any vice president designated for such purpose by the chairman.
SECTION 11.
The Treasurer
. The secretary shall: (a) keep the minutes of the stockholders' and the board of directors' meetings in one or more books provided for that purpose; (b) see that all notices of the corporation are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these by-laws or as required by law; (c) be custodian of the corporate records and of the seal of the corporation and shall affix the same to such documents and other papers as the board of directors or the chairman shall authorize and direct; (d) have charge of the stock certificate books, transfer books and stock ledgers and such other books and papers as the board of directors or the chairman shall direct; (e) keep a register of the post office address of each stockholder which shall be furnished to the secretary by such stockholder; (f) sign with a vice president, or the chairman, stock certificates of the corporation, the issue of which shall have been authorized by resolution of the board of directors; (g) have general charge of the stock transfer books of the corporation; (h) act as secretary at all meetings of the Executive Committee; and (i) in general perform all duties incident to the office of secretary. The secretary shall also have such other powers and shall perform such other duties not inconsistent with these by-laws as may from time to time be assigned by these by-laws or the chairman or the board of directors.
SECTION 12.
The Secretary
. The controller or controllers shall provide guidance and evaluation with respect to the corporation's accounting and related functions, control and procedures systems, budget programs, and coordinate same on a divisional and overall corporate level. The controller or controllers shall report to such officer or officers of the corporation and perform such other duties not inconsistent with these by-laws, incident to the office of controller, as may be prescribed from time to time by the chairman, chief financial officer, or by the board of directors.
SECTION 13.
The Controller(s)
. The chairman may appoint one or more assistant treasurers and one or more assistant secretaries who shall serve as such until removed by the chairman or the board of directors. The assistant treasurers may be required to give bonds for the faithful discharge of their duties in such sums and with such sureties as the board of directors or chairman shall determine. The assistant treasurers and assistant secretaries, in general, shall perform such duties not inconsistent with these by-laws as may be assigned to them by the treasurer or the secretary, respectively, or by the board of directors or the chairman, but shall not be considered to be officers of the corporation solely by reason of such appointments or titles.
SECTION 14.
Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries
. The chairman may from time to time designate employees of the corporation who are managing one or several groups, divisions, or other operations of the corporation as "president", "vice president", or similar title, which employees shall not be considered to be officers of the corporation solely by reason of such appointments or titles.
SECTION 15.
Appointive Presidents and Vice Presidents
. The salaries of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the board of directors on an annual basis and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary by reason of the fact that he is also a director of the corporation.
SECTION 16.
Salaries
. To the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), the corporation shall indemnify any director, officer or employee who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the corporation) by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the corporation, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
SECTION 1.
Non-Derivative Actions and Criminal Prosecutions
. To the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), the corporation shall indemnify any director, officer or employee who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the corporation, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duty to the corporation unless and only to the extent that the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which such court shall deem proper.
SECTION 2.
Derivative Actions
. To the extent that a director, officer or employee of the corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in sections 1 and 2 of this article, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified by the corporation against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.
SECTION 3.
Right to Indemnification
. Any indemnification under sections 1 and 2 of this article (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer or employee is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in said sections 1 and 2. Such determination shall be made (i) by the board of directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (ii) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable and a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel (compensated by the corporation) in a written opinion, or (iii) by the stockholders.
SECTION 4.
Where No Adjudication
. Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding may be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding as authorized by the board of directors in the specific case upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director, officer or employee to repay such amount unless it shall ultimately be determined that he is entitled to be indemnified by the corporation as authorized in this article.
SECTION 5.
Expenses
. The indemnification and advancement ofexpenses provided by this article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a director, officer or employee seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office.
SECTION 6.
Non-exclusive
. The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any director, officer or employee who is or was a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the corporation, against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this article or applicable law.
SECTION 7.
Insurance
. The duties of the corporation to indemnify and to advance expenses to a director, officer or employee shall be in the nature of a contract between the corporation and each such person, which contractual rights vest at the time of such person's service to or at the request of the corporation. Such indemnification and advancement rights cannot be terminated by the corporation, board of directors or the stockholders of the corporation with respect to a person's service prior to the date of such termination. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by this article shall continue as to a director, officer or employee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such person. No amendment or repeal of any provisions of this article shall alter, to the detriment of such person, the right of such person to the advancement of expenses or indemnification related to a claim, whether brought or threatened before or after such amendment or repeal, based on an act or failure to act that took place prior to such amendment or repeal. Each director, officer or employee who shall act as a director, officer, employee, trustee, fiduciary or agent of the corporation shall be deemed to be doing so in reliance upon the rights provided by this article.
SECTION 8.
Contractual Nature
. The board of directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of any on behalf of the corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
SECTION 1.
Contracts
. No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the corporation and no evidence of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the board of directors. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
SECTION 2.
Loans
All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the corporation, shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the corporation and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the board of directors.
SECTION 3.
Checks, Drafts, etc.
. All funds of the corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the board of directors may select.
SECTION 4.
Deposits
. The shares of capital stock of the corporation may be certificated or uncertificated or a combination thereof. A resolution approved by a majority of the board of directors may provide that some or all of any or all classes or series of the capital stock of the corporation will be uncertificated shares. Any certificates representing shares of stock of the corporation shall be in such form as may be determined by the board of directors, shall be numbered and shall be entered in the books of the corporation as they are issued. They shall exhibit the holder's name and number of shares and shall be signed by the chairman, the chairman of the Executive Committee, or a vice president and the treasurer or an assistant treasurer or the secretary or an assistant secretary, and shall be sealed with the seal of the corporation. If a stock certificate is countersigned (a) by a transfer agent other than the corporation or its employee, or (b) by a registrar other than the corporation or its employee, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
SECTION 1.
Stock Certificates
. The board of directors may from time to time make such provision as it deems appropriate for the replacement of lost, stolen or destroyed stock certificates, including the requirement to furnish an affidavit and an indemnity.
SECTION 2.
Lost Certificates
. Transfers of shares of capital stock of the corporation shall be made by the corporation or the transfer agent of the corporation after receipt of a request from the record holder of such capital stock, or from an attorney lawfully constituted in writing, with proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer and, in the case of stock represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment of authority to transfer. The person in whose name shares of stock stand on the books of the corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the corporation.
SECTION 3.
Transfers of Stock
. The board of directors may appoint one or more transfer agents and registrars and may thereafter require all stock certificates to bear the signature of a transfer agent and registrar.
SECTION 4.
Transfer Agents and Registrars
. The board of directors shall have the power and authority to make all such rules and regulations as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of shares of stock of the corporation.
SECTION 5.
Rules of Transfer
The fiscal year of the corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and end on the thirty-first of December in each year.
The board of directors may from time to time, declare, and the corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares of stock in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Certificate of Incorporation.
The board of directors shall provide a corporate seal which shall be in the form of a circle and shall have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware".
Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given under the provisions of these by-laws or under the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, waiver thereof in writing or electronic transmission, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Attendance of any person at a meeting for which any notice whatever is required to be given under the provisions of these by-laws, the Certificate of Incorporation or the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.

Exhibit 99.1
Illinois Tool Works Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), established the Illinois Tool Works Inc. 2011 Cash Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), subject to approval by the Company's stockholders at the Annual Meeting. This Plan is effective as of the date of stockholder approval.
The purpose of this Plan is to advance the interest of the Company by providing a means to pay performance-based short-term and long-term incentive cash compensation designed to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption (as defined below) to those employees upon whose judgment and efforts the Company is largely dependent for the successful conduct of its operations. It is anticipated that the opportunity to earn such cash compensation will stimulate the efforts of such employees on behalf of the Company, strengthen their desire to continue in the service of the Company, prove attractive to promising new employees and assist the Company in attracting such employees. It is intended that compensatory awards to employees based on equity securities of the Company will be granted under the Company's 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan and any successors thereto, rather than under this Plan.
As used in this Plan and in connection with any Award, the terms set forth below shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
means a Participant's Company Service plus the Participant's aggregate number of years of employment with any Subsidiary during the period before it became a Subsidiary, unless the Committee determines otherwise in connection with an entity's becoming a Subsidiary.
(a) "Affiliate Service"
means the opportunity to earn cash compensation under this Plan, subject to the achievement of one or more Performance Goals and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may impose.
(b) "Award"
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(c) "Board"
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(d) "Code"
means the Compensation Committee of the Board.
(e) "Committee"
has the meaning specified in the first paragraph.
(f) "Company"
means the Participant's aggregate number of years of employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries during periods when those entities were Subsidiaries.
(g) "Company Service"
means any of the following: (i) the dissolution of the Company; (ii) the merger, consolidation or reorganization of the Company with any other corporation, or any similar transaction, after which the holders of Common Stock of the Company immediately prior to the effective date thereof hold less than 70% of the outstanding common stock of the surviving or resulting entity; (iii) the sale to any person or entity, other than a wholly owned subsidiary, of Company assets having a total gross fair market value of at least 40% of the total gross fair market value of all Company assets; (iv) any entity, person or group of persons acting in concert, other than descendants of Byron L. Smith and trusts for the benefit of such descendants, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 30% of the outstanding Common Stock; or (v) the individuals who, as of the close of the most recent annual meeting of the Company's stockholders, are members of the Board (the "Existing Directors") cease for any reason to constitute more than 50% of the Board; provided, however, that if the election, or nomination for election, by the Company's stockholders of any new director was approved by a vote of at least 50% of the Existing Directors, such new director shall be considered an Existing Director; provided further, however, that no individual shall be considered an Existing Director if such individual initially assumed office as a result of either (i) a stockholder nomination pursuant to Rule 14a-11 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor rule thereto, or (ii) an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies by or on behalf of anyone other than the Board.
(h) "Corporate Change"
means a "disability" within the meaning of the Company's Savings and Investment Plan, as amended from time to time, or other retirement plan applicable to the Participant.
(i) "Disability"
of a Subsidiary means the Subsidiary's ceasing to be a Subsidiary for any reason (including, without limitation, as a result of a public offering, or a spinoff or sale by the Company, of the stock of the Subsidiary).
(j) "Disaffiliation"
means the date of stockholder approval at the Company's 2011 Annual Meeting.
(k) "Effective Date"
means any employee of the Company or its Subsidiaries who has been granted an Award.
(l) "Participant"
means any one or more of the following objective criteria: generation of free cash, earnings per share, revenues, market share, stock price, cash flow, retained earnings, results of customer satisfaction surveys, aggregate product price and other product price measures, diversity, safety record, acquisition activity, management succession planning, improved asset management, improved operating margins, increased inventory turns, product development and liability, research and development integration, proprietary protections, legal effectiveness, handling SEC or environmental issues, manufacturing efficiencies, system review and improvement, service reliability and cost management, operating expense ratios, total stockholder return, return on sales, return on equity, return on invested capital, return on assets, return on investment, net income, operating income, and the attainment of one or more performance goals relative to the performance of other corporations.
(m) "Performance Goal"
The for an Award means the period of time for the measurement of the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals are attained.
(n) 
"Performance Period"
means this Illinois Tool Works Inc. 2011 Cash Incentive Plan.  
(o) "Plan"
means the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code that is set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code.
(p) "Section 
162(m)
Exemption"
means any entity in which the Company directly or through intervening subsidiaries owns 50% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock, or, in the case of an unincorporated entity, a 50% or more interest in the capital and profits.
(q) "Subsidiary"
of a Participant means the termination of the Participant's employment with the Company and the Subsidiaries. A Participant employed by a Subsidiary also shall be deemed to incur a Termination of Employment if there occurs a Disaffiliation of that Subsidiary, unless either (i) the Participant is, immediately after the Disaffiliation, an employee of the Company or one of the remaining Subsidiaries, or (ii) in connection with the Disaffiliation, the Awards held by the Participant are assumed, or replaced with new awards, by the former Subsidiary or an entity that controls the former Subsidiary following the Disaffiliation.
(r) "Termination of Employment"
This Plan shall be administered by the Committee. To the extent required to comply with Code Section 162(m) and the related regulations, each member of the Committee shall qualify as an "outside director" as defined or interpreted for purposes of the Section 162(m) Exemption. The Committee shall have full and final authority, in its discretion, but subject to the express provisions of this Plan, to establish the terms and conditions of Awards, to determine the recipients of Awards and the extent to which cash payments are actually earned pursuant to Awards and the amounts to be paid, and to interpret this Plan and to make all determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of this Plan. The Committee may delegate any or all of its administrative duties and responsibilities under this Plan to any individual or group of individuals it deems appropriate, but no such delegation shall be made to the extent it would cause an Award not to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption.
(a) 
The determination of the Committee on all matters relating to this Plan and all Awards shall be made in its sole discretion, and shall be conclusive and final. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to this Plan or any Award.
(b) 
Awards may be granted to any employee of the Company or any of its domestic Subsidiaries, and to any employee, officer or director of any of the Company's foreign Subsidiaries. The maximum amount of cash that may be payable with respect to any one Award shall be $5 million times the number of years and fractions thereof in the applicable Performance Period. The maximum number of Performance Periods that end in any single calendar year for which any one Participant shall be eligible to earn Awards shall be three.
In connection with the grant of each Award, the Committee shall, within the time period required to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, (i) determine the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Period applicable to such Award, (ii) establish the formula for determining the amounts payable based upon achievement of the applicable Performance Goal, (iii) determine the consequences of the Participant's Termination of Employment for various reasons or the Participant's demotion or promotion during the Performance Period, (iv) specify the consequences of a Corporate Change during the Performance Period and (v) establish such other terms and conditions for the Award as it may deem appropriate.
(a) Basic Terms of Awards.
Performance Goals may take the form of absolute goals or goals relative to the performance of one or more other companies comparable to the Company or of an index covering multiple companies. In establishing Performance Goals, the Committee may specify that there shall be excluded the effect of restructuring charges, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, cumulative effects of accounting changes and other unusual or nonrecurring items, asset impairment and the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, in each case as those terms are defined under generally accepted accounting principles and provided in each case that such excluded items are objectively determinable by reference to the Company's financial statements, notes to the Company's financial statements and/or management's discussion and analysis in the Company's financial statements.
(b) 
A cash payment may be made to a Participant pursuant to an Award only upon the achievement of the applicable Performance Goal(s), except that the Committee may provide, either in connection with the grant thereof or by amendment thereafter, that achievement of such Performance Goals will be waived in whole or in part upon the death or Disability of the Participant, in the event of a Corporate Change, or such other event as the Committee may deem appropriate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the Committee may not exercise any discretionary authority it may otherwise have under this Plan with respect to an Award, in any manner to waive the achievement of the applicable Performance Goals or to increase the amount payable pursuant thereto or the value thereof, or otherwise in a manner that would cause the Award to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption. Further, the Committee has discretion to reduce any cash payment as it deems appropriate, except as otherwise provided in the grant. Any payment made to a Participant pursuant to an Award shall be made no later than March 15 of the calendar year following the last day of the applicable Performance Period.
(c) 
Awards granted hereunder shall not be assignable or transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
The Company may withhold or cause to be withheld from any or all cash payments made under this Plan such amounts as are necessary to satisfy all U.S. federal, state and local withholding tax requirements related thereto.
Benefits payable under this Plan to any person shall be paid directly by the Company or a Subsidiary. The Company shall not be required to fund, or otherwise segregate assets to be used for payment of, benefits under this Plan.
Neither the establishment of this Plan, nor the granting of any Award, shall be construed to (a) give any Participant the right to remain employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or to any benefits not specifically provided by this Plan or (b) in any manner modify the right of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries to modify, amend, or terminate any of its employee benefit plans.
Any and all grants of Awards and payments of cash hereunder shall constitute special incentive payments to the Participant, other than payments pursuant to Awards with Performance Periods of one year or less, and shall not be taken into account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participant for the purposes of determining any pension, retirement, death or other benefits under (a) any qualified, non-qualified or supplemental pension, retirement or profit-sharing plan of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (b) any bonus, life insurance or other employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or (c) any agreement between the Company or any Subsidiary, on the one hand, and the Participant, on the other hand, except as such plan or agreement shall otherwise expressly provide. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, payments of cash hereunder may be deferred under any such plan if and to the extent such plan so provides.
The Committee's determinations under this Plan need not be uniform, and may be made by the Committee selectively among individuals who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards (whether or not such individuals are similarly situated). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled, among other things, to make non-uniform and selective determinations, to enter into non-uniform and selective Award Agreements as to (a) the identity of the Participants, (b) the terms and provisions of Awards, and (c) the treatment of Terminations of Employment.
The Board may from time to time in its discretion amend or modify this Plan or Awards or terminate the Plan without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, and the Committee may amend Awards; provided that, subject to the Committee discretion described in Sections 5(c) and except as provided in the next two sentences, no such amendment or termination shall adversely affect any previously-granted Award without the consent of the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Award is subject to forfeiture (and the Board may from time to time amend this Plan or Awards, and the Committee may from time to time amend Awards) without the consent of affected Participants: (a) to comply with applicable law, stock exchange rule or accounting rule, or (b) to comply with any Company policy regarding the recovery of erroneously awarded compensation. Further, any Award may be amended by the Board or the Committee to make changes that do not materially decrease the value of such Awards. In no event may any Award be amended in any manner that would cause it to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption. The material terms of the performance goals under the Plan (as defined or interpreted for purposes of the Section 162(m) Exemption) shall be submitted to the Company's shareholders for re-approval as required, and at such times as are required, for Awards to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption.
The law of the State of Illinois, except its law with respect to choice of law, shall be controlling in all matters relating to this Plan.


