FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20110420142306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.01Other Events
Item 8
 
On April 14, 2011, Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW) and ITW Finishing LLC (collectively, the Sellers) entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (the Agreement) to sell its finishing group of businesses to Graco Inc., Graco Holdings Inc. and Graco Minnesota Inc. (collectively the Purchasers).  Pursuant to the Agreement, the Sellers have agreed to sell the assets of its finishing group of businesses to the Purchaser in a $650 million cash transaction.  The sale is not expected to be completed until June 2011, at the earliest, to accommodate regulatory reviews.
The foregoing description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Agreement, which is listed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
On April 14, 2011, ITW issued a press release regarding this transaction, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
GLENVIEW, ILLINOISApril 14, 2011Illinois Tool Works Inc. (NYSE: ITW) today announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its finishing group of businesses to Graco Inc. in a $650 million cash transaction.  The sale is not expected to be completed until June 2011 at the earliest to accommodate regulatory reviews.
 
ITWs finishing equipment businesses consist of paint spray systems and technologies for a variety of industrial end markets and applications around the world. Key businesses include Gema, Ransburg, DeVilbiss, BGK and Binks. These businesses are leaders in wet industrial finishing as well as powder paint equipment and drying technologies. The finishing businesses revenues were $305 million in 2010.  The Company intends to utilize after-tax proceeds from the sale to repurchase shares as part of its share repurchase program.
 
ITWs finishing businesses offer a variety of premium worldwide brands which collectively represent a very valuable asset, said David B. Speer, chairman and chief executive officer. We believe the sale of these assets to an industry leader like Graco presents our finishing businesses with an excellent opportunity to optimize their long-term growth and profitability.
 
Founded in 1926, Graco (NYSE: GGG) is a world leader in fluid handling systems and components. Graco products move, measure, control, dispense and apply a wide range of fluids and viscous materials used in vehicle lubrication, commercial and industrial settings. Gracos revenues totaled $744 million in 2010.
 
With nearly 100 years of history, Illinois Tool Works Inc. is a Fortune 200 global diversified industrial manufacturer. The Companys value-added consumables, equipment and service businesses serve customers in developed as well as emerging markets around the globe. ITWs key business platforms, including welding, automotive OEM, industrial packaging, food equipment, construction, polymers and fluids, test and measurement, electronics, decorative surfaces and automotive aftermarket, employ more than 60,000 people worldwide. ITWs revenues totaled $15.9 billion in 2010, with more than half of these revenues generated outside of the United States.
 
Contact: John L. Brooklier, 847-657-4104 or jbrooklier@itw.com
 


