FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20110208131429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01Other Events
The Company has been in a dispute with the Australian Tax Office over the tax treatment of an intercompany financing transaction between the U.S. and Australia. The case was heard before the Federal Court of Australia, Victoria, in September 2010. The proceedings result from the Companys appeal of a decision by the Australian Tax Commissioner to disallow income tax deductions for income tax years 2002 through 2005 and the assessment of withholding taxes for income tax year 2003. The Company also contested the Commissioners similar determination for income tax years 2006 and 2007; however, the parties agreed to defer the appeal of that determination until a decision was made on the earlier years. On February 4, 2011, the Federal Court of Australia decided in the Companys favor with respect to a significant portion of t he income tax deductions; however, given the complexity of the issues in the proceedings, the Court directed the parties to submit orders to implement the Courts rulings by February 18, 2011. Based on this decision, the Company expects to decrease its unrecognized tax benefits related to this matter and decrease tax expense related to income tax years 2003 through 2010, but the exact amount will not be determined until the Court issues its final order, which is expected before the end of the Companys first quarter. The Australian Tax Office has 21 days from the date the Court issues its final order to appeal the decision.
Item 9.01Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
GLENVIEW, ILLINOISFebruary 7, 2011Illinois Tool Works Inc. (NYSE:ITW) today announced that on February 4 the Federal Court of Australia issued a favorable decision regarding the Companys dispute with the Australian Taxation Office over income tax deductions in connection with an intercompany financing transaction.  As a result, there will be a significant allowable tax deduction.
 
Given the complexity of the issues in the proceedings, the Federal Court of Australia directed the parties to submit orders to implement the Court rulings by February 18, 2011.  However, the exact amount will not be determined until the Court issues its final order, which is expected before the end of the Companys first quarter.
 
With nearly 100 years of history, Illinois Tool Works Inc. (NYSE: ITW) is a Fortune 200 global diversified industrial manufacturer. The Companys value-added consumables, equipment and service businesses serve customers in developed as well as emerging markets around the globe. ITWs key business platforms, including welding, automotive OEM, industrial packaging, food equipment, construction, polymers and fluids, test and measurement, electronics, decorative surfaces and automotive aftermarket, employ more than 60,000 people worldwide. ITWs revenues totaled $15.9 billion in 2010, with more than half of these revenues generated outside of the United States.
 
Contact:  John Brooklier 847-657-4104
 




