FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20121119164155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 
On November 18, 2012, the board of directors of Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the Company) promoted E. Scott Santi, age 51, from president and chief operating officer to chief executive officer until the board of directors meeting held on the date of the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders or until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.  The board also elected Mr. Santi to the Companys board of directors to fill the vacancy created by the death of the Companys former chairman and chief executive officer, David B. Speer.  Mr. Santi has been serving as acting chief executive officer since October 12, 2012 after Mr. Speer informed the board that he would take a leave of absence to focus on his health.  Mr. Santi has held positions of increasing responsibility at the Company since joining ITW in 1983.  Since 2008 he served as Vice Chairman with responsibility for the Companys Power Systems & Electronics, Industrial Packaging, Polymers & Fluids, Decorative Surfaces and Food Equipment businesses.  From 2004 to 2008 he served as Executive Vice President with responsibility for the worldwide welding, electronic component fabrication and aircraft ground support equipment groups.  Mr. Santi serves as a director of W.W. Grainger, Inc., a broad-line distributor of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services.  
 
 
Also, on November 18, 2012, the board of directors elected Mr. Robert S. Morrison as non-executive chairman of the board.  Mr. Morrison was named acting non-executive chairman on October 12, 2012.  Mr. Morrison serves on the Compensation Committee and is chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.  
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Glenview, Ill., November 18, 2012  ITW (NYSE: ITW) is deeply saddened to announce that ITW Chairman & CEO David B. Speer has passed away after an illness. He was 61. Mr. Speer joined ITW in 1978 and served in a number of . In 2005, he was elected to the position of chief executive officer and in 2006 assumed the additional responsibilities as chairman of the board of directors. Mr. Speer had been on medical leave since October 2012.
selling, marketing, and management
positions
Effective immediately, E. Scott Santi, 51, has been elected chief executive officer to succeed Mr. Speer. He has also been elected to ITWs board of directors. Mr. Santi was elected president and chief operating officer in October. At that time, he also was named acting chief executive officer in light of Mr. Speers medical leave. Robert S. Morrison, 70, has been elected non-executive chairman of the board of directors. He was named acting non-executive chairman in October and has been an independent director since 2003.
 On behalf of everyone at ITW, our thoughts and prayers are with Davids family during this difficult time, stated Mr. Morrison. Davids energy and enthusiasm leave an indelible mark on ITW, the Chicago business community, and the many not-for-profit organizations he served. He will be greatly missed.
Davids remarkable leadership will have a lasting impact on our company, said Mr. Santi. He leaves a very strong foundation for us to build on as we move forward. On a personal level, I was privileged to have David as my colleague and mentor for over 30 years and I will miss him very much. We extend our deepest sympathies to Davids family.
E. Scott Santi
Mr. Santi, 51, joined ITW in 1983 and has spent his entire career with the Company.  He was elected as Executive Vice President in 2004 and Vice Chairman in 2008.  He also serves as a director of W.W. Grainger, Inc.  Mr. Santi graduated from the University of Illinois in 1983 with a B.S. degree in accounting, and received a Masters in Business Administration from the JL Kellogg School of Business at Northwestern University in 1992.
Robert S. Morrison
Robert S. Morrison, 70, retired as Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc., a beverage and food products company, having served in that position from 2001 to 2003. From 1997 to 2001, prior to its merger with PepsiCo, he was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Quaker Oats Company. Mr. Morrison was Chairman and CEO of Kraft, Inc. from 1994 to 1997.  He also served as interim Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 3M Company from June to December 2005. Mr. Morrison is currently a director of 3M Company and Aon Corporation and was formerly a director of The Tribune Co.
Celebrating its 100-year anniversary in 2012, ITW is a Fortune 150 global diversified industrial manufacturer of value-added consumables and specialty equipment with related service businesses. The Company focuses on profitable growth and strong returns across worldwide platforms and businesses. The businesses serve local customers and markets around the globe, with a significant presence in developed as well as emerging markets. ITW's revenues totaled $17.8 billion in 2011, with more than half of the revenues generated outside of the United States.
Contact: John Brooklier, 847-657-4104 or jbrooklier@itw.com


