FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20120113163904.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 13, 2012, Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW) entered into a letter agreement (the Agreement) with Relational Investors LLC (Relational), David H. Batchelder, and certain other Relational affiliates (the Relational Group).  Under the Agreement and subject to the conditions set forth therein, ITW has agreed to appoint Mr. Batchelder to ITWs Board of Directors (the Board) if requested by Relational any time after ITWs 2012 annual meeting of stockholders but before the sixtieth day prior to ITWs 2013 annual meeting of stockholders.  Should Mr. Batchelder join ITWs Board, ITW agrees to re-nominate him at ITWs 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders for a one-year term.  The members of the Relational Group have agreed to vote for the Boards slate of nominees for director at ITWs annual meetings.
 
In addition, the Relational Group has committed to certain standstill provisions which include, among others, that the Relational Group will not (a) make, participate in or encourage a solicitation of proxies, (b) initiate or encourage any stockholder proposals, (c) seek representation on, or nominate any candidate for, the Board (other than Mr. Batchelder as described above), (d) act alone or in concert with others to seek to control the management or Board of ITW, or (e) own more than 9.9% of the Voting Securities (as such term is defined in the Agreement).
 
The Agreement terminates on the later of (a) 30 days before the last day of the notice period specified in ITWs advance notice bylaw related to director nominations for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or (b) if Mr. Batchelder is appointed or elected to serve on the Board, on the date that Mr. Batchelder is no longer serving on the Board.
 
The foregoing summary of the Agreement is not complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On January 13, 2012, ITW issued a press release relating to the Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
January 12, 2012
 
Gentlemen:
This letter constitutes the agreement (the ) between Illinois Tool Works Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), on the one hand, and Relational Investors LLC() and each of the other individuals and entities set forth on the signature pages hereto (the , and together with Investor, the Investor Affiliates, and the Affiliates and Associates of each of the foregoing, the "), on the other hand, with respect to the matters set forth below:
Agreement
Company
 
Investor
Investor Affiliates
Investor Group
 
If to Company:
 
Illinois Tool Works Inc.
3600 West Lake Avenue
Glenview, IL 60026
Attn: Maria Green
Phone: 847-724-7500
Fax: 847-657-4600
If to the Investor Group:
 
                                Relational Investors LLC
12400 High Bluff Drive, Suite 600
San Diego, CA 92130
Attn: Kathleen Carney
Phone: 858-704-3423
Fax: 858-704-3347
 
Any party may by notice given in accordance with this Section 15 to the other parties designate updated information for notices hereunder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the terms of this Agreement are in accordance with your understandings with the Company, please sign and return the enclosed duplicate of this Agreement, whereupon this Agreement shall constitute a binding agreement among us.
 
RELATIONAL INVESTORS LLC
 
By:          
/s/
David H. Batchelder
 Title:       Principal
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
 
 
By:         
/s/
David B. Speer
Title:       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

Exhibit 99.2
     GLENVIEW, (January 13, 2012 Illinois Tool Works Inc. (NYSE: ITW) and Relational Investors LLC today announced that they have entered into a mutual cooperation agreement giving Relational an option to appoint David H. Batchelder, its principal and co-founder, to ITWs board of directors.
ILLLINOIS
)
     ITW and Relational have engaged in a series of productive discussions about our business and growth prospects, said David B. Speer, ITWs chairman and chief executive officer.  We welcome open dialogue with and input from our shareholders and are pleased to have reached this agreement with Relational. Our board and management team remain committed to generating profitable growth and delivering strong returns and we look forward to continuing to enhance value for all of our shareholders.
     The mutual cooperation agreement provides Relational with an option to appoint Mr. Batchelder to the ITW board of directors at Relationals request any time after ITWs 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders but before the sixtieth day prior to ITWs 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Should Mr. Batchelder join the Companys board, ITW agrees to re-nominate him at the Companys 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders for a customary one-year term.  During the term of the agreement, Relational has agreed to support the Companys recommendations for nominees to the board.
      Relational began investing in ITW shares in mid-2011 and, as of the quarter ending December 31, owned approximately 2.1% of ITWs common stock. The agreement is detailed in an exhibit to the Form 8-K that the Company filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     With nearly 100 years of history, ITW is a Fortune 200 global diversified industrial manufacturer. The Company's value-added consumables, equipment and service businesses serve customers in developed as well as emerging markets around the globe. ITW's key business platforms, including Welding, Automotive OEM, Industrial Packaging, Food Equipment, Construction, Polymers and Fluids, Test and Measurement, Electronics, Decorative Surfaces and Automotive Aftermarket, employ more than 60,000 people worldwide. ITW's revenues totaled $15.4 billion in 2010, with more than half of these revenues generated outside of the United States.
John L. Brooklier, 847-657-4104 or jbrooklier@itw.com
CONTACT:





