FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20121015164102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 
As part of the CEO succession planning that has been ongoing, on October 12, 2012, the board of directors of Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the Company) promoted E. Scott Santi, age 51, from vice chairman to president and chief operating officer until the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2013 or until his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.  Mr. Santi has held positions of increasing responsibility at the Company since joining ITW in 1983.  Since 2008 he served as Vice Chairman with responsibility for the Companys Power Systems & Electronics, Industrial Packaging, Polymers & Fluids, Decorative Surfaces and Food Equipment businesses.  From 2004 to 2008 he served as Executive Vice President with responsibility for the worldwide welding, electronic component fabrication and aircraft ground support equipment groups.  Mr. Santi serves as a director of W.W. Grainger, Inc., a broad-line distributor of maintenance, repair and operating supplies and other related products and services.  
 
 
Also on October 12, 2012, the board of directors appointed Mr. Santi as acting Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Robert S. Morrison as acting non-executive Chairman of the Board, after David S. Speer, the Companys Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, informed the Board that he would take a leave of absence to focus on his health.  Messrs. Santi and Morrison were appointed as acting CEO and non-executive Chairman, respectively, but no longer than the remainder of Mr. Speers current term of office.  
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
GLENVIEW, ILLINOIS, Oct. 15, 2012  Illinois Tool Works Inc. (NYSE: ITW) today announced that E. Scott Santi, vice chairman, has been promoted to president and chief operating officer.  In addition, Mr. Santi has also been appointed acting chief executive officer, effective immediately.  Mr. Santis appointment as acting CEO follows the decision by David Speer, chairman and chief executive officer, to take a leave of absence in order to fully focus on his health.  As disclosed on November 10, 2011, Mr. Speer has been undergoing treatment for a medical condition.  ITWs lead director, Robert S. Morrison, will serve as acting non-executive chairman of the board, effective immediately.
The promotion of Scott to president and chief operating officer reflects the boards normal and carefully considered succession planning process, said Robert Morrison, acting Chairman of the Board of Directors. Scott is an accomplished ITW executive with nearly 30 years of service.  With David Speers full support, the board also appointed Scott as acting CEO.  The board has a great deal of confidence in Scott and ITWs leadership team.
Both the board and I are confident in having Scott lead the Company, said David Speer. Scott is a proven leader with extensive knowledge of ITWs key markets and businesses.  He has played a leading role in the development of ITWs current enterprise strategy.
I appreciate the trust our board and David have placed in me to lead ITW at this time, said Mr. Santi.  The senior management team and I will work to build on ITWs long history of strong performance as well as continue to execute our strategic initiatives of portfolio management, business structure simplification and strategic sourcing to enhance value for shareholders. On behalf of the entire ITW family, we wish David a full recovery.
E. Scott Santi
Mr. Santi, 51, joined ITW in 1983 and has spent his entire career with the Company.  He was elected as Executive Vice President in 2004 and Vice Chairman in 2008.  He also serves as a director of W.W. Grainger, Inc.  Mr. Santi graduated from the University of Illinois in 1983 with a B.S. degree in accounting, and received a Masters in Business Administration from the JL Kellogg School of Business at Northwestern University in 1992.
Robert S. Morrison
Robert S. Morrison, 70, retired as Vice Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc., a beverage and food products company, having served in that position from 2001 to 2003. From 1997 to 2001, prior to its merger with PepsiCo, he was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Quaker Oats Company. Mr. Morrison was Chairman and CEO of Kraft, Inc. from 1994 to 1997.  He also served as interim Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 3M Company from June to December 2005. Mr. Morrison is currently a director of 3M Company and Aon Corporation and was formerly a director of The Tribune Co. Mr. Morrison has served as a director of ITW since 2003 and currently serves as lead director.
Celebrating its 100-year anniversary in 2012, ITW is a Fortune 150 global diversified industrial manufacturer of value-added consumables and specialty equipment with related service businesses. The Company focuses on profitable growth and strong returns across worldwide platforms and businesses. The businesses serve local customers and markets around the globe, with a significant presence in developed as well as emerging markets. ITW's revenues totaled $17.8 billion in 2011, with more than half of the revenues generated outside of the United States.
Contacts:
John L. Brooklier, +1-847-657-4104, jbrooklier@itw.com
 


