FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20120724084930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
UNITED STATES
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 24, 2012, Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the Company) announced its 2012 second quarter results of operations in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1. The Companys presentation from the second quarter conference call held on July 24, 2012 is furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
The Company uses free operating cash flow to measure cash flow generated by operations that is available for dividends, acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayment. The Company believes this non-GAAP financial measure is useful to investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash internally to fund Company initiatives. Free operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less additions to plant and equipment. Free operating cash flow is a measurement that is not the same as net cash flow from operating activities per the statement of cash flows and may not be consistent with similarly titled measures used by other companies. A reconciliation of free operating cash flows to net cash provided by operating activities is included in the conference call presentation furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
The Company uses return on average invested capital (ROIC) to measure the effectiveness of its operations' use of invested capital to generate profits. ROIC is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company believes is a meaningful metric to investors in evaluating the Company's financial performance and may be different than the method used by other companies to calculate ROIC. Invested capital represents the net assets of the Company, excluding cash and cash equivalents and outstanding debt, which are excluded as they do not represent capital investment in the Company's operations. Average invested capital is calculated using balances at the start of the period and at the end of each quarter. A reconciliation of ROIC is included in the conference call presentation furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
The Company uses the ratio of total debt to EBITDA to measure its ability to repay its outstanding debt obligations. The Company believes that total debt to EBITDA is a meaningful metric to investors in evaluating the Company's long term financial liquidity and may be different than the method used by other companies to calculate total debt to EBITDA. EBITDA and the ratio of total debt to EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. The ratio of total debt to EBITDA represents total debt divided by income from continuing operations before interest expense, other income (expense), income taxes, depreciation, and amortization and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets on a trailing twelve month basis. A reconciliation of total debt to EBITDA is included in the conference call presentation furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
GLENVIEW, ILLINOIS  July 24, 2012  Illinois Tool Works Inc. (NYSE: ITW) today reported second quarter 2012 diluted income per share from continuing operations of $1.11, a 16 percent increase versus the 2011 second quarter. While revenue growth moderated in the second quarter due to the higher-than-expected negative impact of currency translation and slowing demand in a variety of international end markets, operating margins of 16.5 percent improved 110 basis points versus the year-ago period.
 
Second quarter 2012 financial and operating highlights versus the prior year included:
 
            Total revenues of $4.655 billion increased 0.9 percent. Organic or base revenues grew 2.3 percent, with North American organic revenues increasing 5.3 percent and international organic revenues declining 0.8 percent. European organic revenues decreased 1.7 percent. Asia Pacific organic revenues underperformed company expectations, growing only 1.8 percent.  Notably, China organic revenues declined 0.5 percent.
 
            Acquisitions net of divestitures added 3.0 percent to revenues while currency translation negatively impacted revenues by 4.5 percent. The declining value of the Euro accounted for the major currency headwind in the quarter.
 
            Operating income of $770.0 million grew 8.3 percent.
 
            Operating margins improved due to favorable raw material price/cost dynamics as well as effective management of overheads within the decentralized businesses.
  
            Total revenues for the Power Systems and Electronics segment increased 7.7 percent. Segment organic revenues grew 5.2 percent based on continuing strength in the worldwide welding businesses and improvement in the electronics assembly businesses. Worldwide weldings organic revenues grew 8.8 percent, with North American and international growing 11.4 percent and 2.1 percent, respectively. Total organic revenues for electronics increased 1.9 percent due to double digit organic growth from the electronics assembly businesses. Segment operating margins of 21.2 percent improved 60 basis points from the prior year period.
 
  The Company returned nearly $700 million to shareholders through share repurchases of $526 million and dividends paid of $172 million. At the end of the 2012 second quarter, the Company had $2.9 billion remaining in its share repurchase authorization.
   
 
     Despite slowing in a variety of international end markets and significant currency translation headwinds, we were very pleased with our second quarter operating performance, said David B. Speer, chairman and chief executive officer.  Based on our differentiated 80/20 operational focus, our businesses produced very strong operating margin improvement in the quarter with excellent management of input and overhead costs.  In addition, we continued to return significant levels of cash to our shareholders through our share repurchase program as well as our strong dividend payout.
 
     Given the ongoing negative impact of currency translation, additional restructuring expenditures that will now total over $100 million for the year, and expected continued sluggish demand in international markets, the Company is lowering its forecast for revenue growth from continuing operations to be in a range of 1 percent to 3 percent versus the prior range of 5 percent to 7 percent.  As a result, full-year diluted income per share from continuing operations is expected to be in a range of $4.03 to $4.19 versus the prior range of $4.14 to $4.38.  For third quarter 2012, the Company is forecasting revenue growth to be in a range from -1 percent to 1 percent and diluted income per share from continuing operations to be in a range of $1.03 to $1.11.
 
      This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, statements regarding diluted income per share from continuing operations and total revenue growth. These statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such factors include those contained in ITWs 2011 Form 10-K.
 
     Celebrating its 100-year anniversary in 2012, ITW is a Fortune 200 global diversified industrial manufacturer of value-added consumables and specialty equipment with related service businesses. The Company focuses on profitable growth and strong returns across worldwide platforms and businesses. The businesses serve local customers and markets around the globe, with a significant presence in developed as well as emerging markets. ITWs revenues totaled $17.8 billion in 2011, with more than half of the revenues generated outside of the United States.
 
 
CONTACT: John L. Brooklier, 847-657-4104 or jbrooklier@itw.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





