FILE:ITW/ITW-8K-20120424084757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 24, 2012, Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the Company) announced its 2012 first quarter results of operations in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1. The Companys presentation from the first quarter conference call held on April 24, 2012 is furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
The Company uses free operating cash flow to measure cash flow generated by operations that is available for dividends, acquisitions, share repurchases and debt repayment. The Company believes this non-GAAP financial measure is useful to investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash internally to fund Company initiatives. Free operating cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less additions to plant and equipment. Free operating cash flow is a measurement that is not the same as net cash flow from operating activities per the statement of cash flows and may not be consistent with similarly titled measures used by other companies. A reconciliation of free operating cash flows to net cash provided by operating activities is included in the conference call presentation furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
The Company uses return on average invested capital (ROIC) to measure the effectiveness of its operations' use of invested capital to generate profits. ROIC is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company believes is a meaningful metric to investors in evaluating the Company's financial performance and may be different than the method used by other companies to calculate ROIC. Invested capital represents the net assets of the Company, excluding cash and cash equivalents and outstanding debt, which are excluded as they do not represent capital investment in the Company's operations. Average invested capital is calculated using balances at the start of the period and at the end of each quarter. A reconciliation of ROIC is included in the conference call presentation furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
The Company uses the ratio of total debt to EBITDA to measure its ability to repay its outstanding debt obligations. The Company believes that total debt to EBITDA is a meaningful metric to investors in evaluating the Company's long term financial liquidity and may be different than the method used by other companies to calculate total debt to EBITDA. EBITDA and the ratio of total debt to EBTIDA are non-GAAP financial measures. The ratio of total debt to EBITDA represents total debt divided by income from continuing operations before interest expense, other income (expense), income taxes, depreciation, and amortization and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets on a trailing twelve month basis. A reconciliation of total debt to EBITDA is included in the conference call presentation furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 GLENVIEW, ILLIN0ISApril 24, 2012Illinois Tool Works Inc. (NYSE: ITW) today reported first quarter 2012 diluted income per share from continuing operations of $0.97. Excluding a one-time tax benefit of $0.33 associated with an Australian tax matter in the 2011 first quarter, diluted income per share from continuing operations in the 2012 first quarter increased 10.2 percent versus the year-ago period.
First quarter 2012 financial and operating highlights versus the 2011 first quarter included:
 
 
Total revenues of $4.55 billion increased 6.4 percent.
 
 
Organic or base revenues grew 3.2 percent, with North American organic revenues increasing 6.6 percent and international organic revenues were essentially flat. European organic revenues decreased 1.2 percent while Asia Pacific organic revenues grew 3.1 percent.
 
 
Acquisitions net of divestitures added 4.4 percent to revenues while currency translation negatively impacted revenues by 1.3 percent.
 
 
Operating income of $705.0 million grew 7 percent.
 
 
Operating margins of 15.5 percent improved 10 basis points.
 
 
 Total revenues for the Power Systems and Electronics segment increased 11.1 percent. Segment organic revenues grew 6.9 percent due to the ongoing strength of the worldwide welding businesses. Due to strong demand from heavy equipment manufacturers and energy producers, organic revenues for worldwide welding grew 18.6 percent. The Companys electronics businesses were hampered by weak worldwide consumer demand and related inventory destocking. Total electronics organic revenues declined 10.5 percent. Segment operating margins totaled 21.4 percent.
 
 The Company returned more than $600 million to shareholders through share repurchase of $474 million and dividends paid of $174 million.  At the end of the first quarter, the Company had $3.4 billion remaining in its share repurchase authorization.
 
 The Company continued to divest non-core assets as part of its longer-term portfolio strategy.  ITW concluded the sale of its $375 million finishing business to Graco Inc. on April 2, 2012, in a $650 million cash transaction.  The estimated pre-tax gain of $450 million will be recorded in the second quarter as part of discontinued operations.
     Our strong first quarter operating performance reflects a number of ITW attributes: balanced geographic footprint, our established 80/20 operating discipline and our return-based approach to allocating cash to both our businesses and our shareholders, said David B. Speer, chairman and chief executive officer. Both our first quarter earnings and operating margins exceeded our expectations and our return on invested capital was within our target range.  Despite uneven end market demand in Europe, we remain optimistic about our full-year prospects.
 
 Largely due to better-than-expected first quarter results and share repurchase activity, the Company is raising its forecast for 2012 full-year diluted income per share from continuing operations. The Company expects full-year guidance to be in the range of $4.14 to $4.38 versus the prior forecasted range of $4.02 to $4.26. Full-year revenue growth is expected to be in a range of 5.0 percent to 7.0 percent. For the 2012 second quarter, the Company is forecasting diluted income per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.08 to $1.16 and assumes a total revenue growth range of 3.5 percent to 6.0 percent.
 
 
This earnings release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, statements regarding diluted income per share from continuing operations and total revenue growth. These statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such factors include those contained in ITWs 2011 Form 10-K.
   Celebrating its 100-year anniversary in 2012, ITW is a Fortune 200 global diversified industrial manufacturer of value-added consumables and specialty equipment with related service businesses. The Company focuses on profitable growth and strong returns across worldwide platforms and businesses. These businesses serve local customers and markets around the globe, with a significant presence in developed as well as emerging markets. ITWs revenues totaled $17.8 billion in 2011, with more than half of these revenues generated outside of the United States.
CONTACT: John L. Brooklier, 847-657-4104 or jbrooklier@itw.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
GAAP TO NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




