Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations following are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described below have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these matters, actual results could differ from the estimates we use in applying the critical accounting policies. Certain of these critical accounting policies affect working capital account balances, including the policies for revenue recognition, the reserve for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory reserves, and contingent payments under endorsement contracts. These policies 15 Table of Contents require that we make estimates in the preparation of our financial statements as of a given date. However, since our business cycle is relatively short, actual results related to these estimates are generally known within the six month period following the financial statement date. Thus, these policies generally affect only the timing of reported amounts across two to three quarters. Within the context of these critical accounting policies, we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would result in materially different amounts being reported. Revenue Recognition We record wholesale revenues when title passes and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer, based on the terms of sale. Title passes generally upon shipment or upon receipt by the customer depending on the country of the sale and the agreement with the customer. Retail store revenues are recorded at the time of sale. In some instances, we ship product directly from our supplier to the customer. In these cases, we recognize revenue when the product is delivered to and accepted by the customer. Our revenues may fluctuate in cases when our customers delay accepting shipment of product for periods up to several weeks. In certain countries outside of the U.S., precise information regarding the date of receipt by the customer is not readily available. In these cases, we estimate the date of receipt by the customer based upon historical delivery times by geographic location. On the basis of our tests of actual transactions, we have no indication that these estimates have been materially inaccurate historically. As part of our revenue recognition policy, we record estimated sales returns and miscellaneous claims from customers as reductions to revenues at the time revenues are recorded. We base our estimates on historical rates of product returns and claims, and specific identification of outstanding claims and outstanding returns not yet received from customers. Actual returns and claims in any future period are inherently uncertain and thus may differ from our estimates. If actual or expected future returns and claims were significantly greater or lower than the reserves we had established, we would record a reduction or increase to net revenues in the period in which we made such determination. Reserve for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable We make ongoing estimates relating to the collectibility of our accounts receivable and maintain a reserve for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In determining the amount of the reserve, we consider our historical level of credit losses and make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. Since we cannot predict future changes in the financial stability of our customers, actual future losses from uncollectible accounts may differ from our estimates. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, a larger reserve might be required. In the event we determined that a smaller or larger reserve was appropriate, we would record a credit or a charge to selling and administrative expense in the period in which we made such a determination. Inventory Reserves We also make ongoing estimates relating to the net realizable value of inventories, based upon our assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If we estimate that the net realizable value of our inventory is less than the cost of the inventory recorded on our books, we record a reserve equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated net realizable value. This reserve is recorded as a charge to cost of sales. If changes in market conditions result in reductions in the estimated net realizable value of our inventory below our previous estimate, we would increase our reserve in the period in which we made such a determination and record a charge to cost of sales. 16 Table of Contents Contingent Payments under Endorsement Contracts A significant portion of our demand creation (advertising and promotion) expense relates to payments under endorsement contracts. In general, endorsement payments are expensed uniformly over the term of the contract. However, certain contract elements may be accounted for differently, based upon the facts and circumstances of each individual contract. Certain contracts provide for contingent payments to endorsers based upon specific achievements in their sports (e.g., winning a championship). We record selling and administrative expense for these amounts when the endorser achieves the specific goal. Certain contracts provide for payments based upon endorsers maintaining a level of performance in their sport over an extended period of time (e.g., maintaining a top ranking in a sport for a year). These amounts are reported in selling and administrative expense when we determine that it is probable that the specified level of performance will be maintained throughout the period. In these instances, to the extent that actual payments to the endorser differ from our estimate due to changes in the endorsers athletic performance, increased or decreased selling and administrative expense may be reported in a future period. Certain contracts provide for royalty payments to endorsers based upon a predetermined percentage of sales of particular products. We expense these payments in cost of sales as the related sales are made. In certain contracts, we offer minimum guaranteed royalty payments. For contractual obligations for which we estimate that we will not meet the minimum guaranteed amount of royalty fees through sales of product, we record the amount of the guaranteed payment in excess of that earned through sales of product in selling and administrative expense uniformly over the remaining guarantee period. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment, including buildings, equipment, and computer hardware and software is recorded at cost (including, in some cases, the cost of internal labor) and is depreciated over its estimated useful life. Changes in circumstances (such as technological advances or changes to our business operations) can result in differences between the actual and estimated useful lives. In those cases where we determine that the useful life of a long lived asset should be shortened, we increase depreciation expense over the remaining useful life to depreciate the assets net book value to its salvage value. When events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment may be impaired, we estimate the future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset to determine whether or not a potential impairment exists. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows, we then calculate the impairment as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over our estimate of its fair market value. Any impairment charges are recorded as other expense. We estimate future undiscounted cash flows using assumptions about our expected future operating performance. Our estimates of undiscounted cash flows may change in future periods due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to our business operations or inability to meet business plans. Such changes may result in impairment charges in the period in which such changes in estimates are made. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, (FAS 142) effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2003. In accordance with FAS 142, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized but instead measured for impairment at least annually or when events indicate that an impairment exists. As required by FAS 142, in our impairment tests for goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets, we compare the estimated fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets to the carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of fair value, we calculate impairment as the excess of the carrying value over our estimate of fair value. Our estimates of fair value utilized 17 Table of Contents in goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible asset tests may be based upon a number of factors, including our assumptions about the expected future operating performance of our reporting units. Our estimates may change in future periods due to, among other things, technological change, economic conditions, changes to our business operations or inability to meet business plans. Such changes may result in impairment charges recorded in future periods. As discussed further below, upon adoption of FAS 142, we recorded an impairment charge related to goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets of $266.1 million. This charge is shown on our consolidated statement of income as the cumulative effect of accounting change. In future periods, any goodwill impairment charges would be classified as a separate line item on our consolidated statement of income as part of income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change. Other indefinite lived intangible asset impairment charges would be classified as other expense. Intangible assets that are determined to have definite lives will continue to be amortized over their useful lives and are measured for impairment only when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired. In these cases, we estimate the future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset to determine whether or not a potential impairment exists. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows, we then calculate the impairment as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over our estimate of its fair value. Any impairment charges would be classified as other expense. Hedge Accounting for Derivatives We use forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge certain anticipated foreign currency exchange transactions, as well as any resulting receivable or payable balance. When specific criteria required by SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, have been met, changes in fair values of hedge contracts relating to anticipated transactions are recorded in other comprehensive income rather than net income until the underlying hedged transaction affects net income. In most cases, this results in gains and losses on hedge derivatives being released from other comprehensive income into net income some time after the maturity of the derivative. One of the criteria for this accounting treatment is that the forward exchange contract amount should not be in excess of specifically identified anticipated transactions. By their very nature, our estimates of anticipated transactions may fluctuate over time and may ultimately vary from actual transactions. When anticipated transaction estimates or actual transaction amounts decrease below hedged levels, or when the timing of transactions changes significantly, we are required to reclassify at least a portion of the cumulative changes in fair values of the related hedge contracts from other comprehensive income to other income/expense during the quarter in which such changes occur. Once an anticipated transaction estimate or actual transaction amount decreases below hedged levels, we make adjustments to the related hedge contract in order to reduce the amount of the hedge contract to that of the revised anticipated transaction. Taxes We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the year such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have declared as indefinitely reinvested offshore, thus reducing our overall income tax expense. The amount of earnings designated as indefinitely reinvested offshore is based upon the actual deployment of such earnings in our offshore assets and our expectations of the future cash needs of our U.S. and foreign entities. Income tax considerations are also a factor in determining the amount of foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. 18 Table of Contents We take a conservative approach in determining the amount of foreign earnings to declare as reinvested offshore. As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the presumption is that such earnings will be repatriated in the future. We carefully review all factors that drive the ultimate disposition of such foreign earnings, and apply stringent standards to overcoming the presumption of repatriation. Despite this conservative approach, because the determination involves our future plans and expectations of future events, the possibility exists that amounts declared as indefinitely reinvested offshore may ultimately be repatriated. For instance, the actual cash needs of our U.S. entities may exceed our current expectations, or the actual cash needs of our foreign entities may be less than our current expectations. This would result in additional income tax expense in the year we determined that amounts were no longer indefinitely reinvested offshore. Conversely, our conservative approach may result in accumulated foreign earnings (for which U.S. income taxes have been provided) being determined in the future to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. In this case, our income tax expense would be reduced in the year of such determination. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year and record a quarterly income tax provision in accordance with the anticipated annual rate. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate. Other Contingencies In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in legal proceedings regarding contractual and employment relationships, product liability claims, trademark rights, and a variety of other matters. We record contingent liabilities resulting from claims against us when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. We disclose contingent liabilities when there is a reasonable possibility that the ultimate loss will materially exceed the recorded liability. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple factors, in some cases including judgments about the potential actions of third party claimants and courts. Therefore, actual losses in any future period are inherently uncertain. Currently, we do not believe that any of our pending legal proceedings or claims will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. However, if actual or estimated probable future losses exceed our recorded liability for such claims, we would record additional charges as other expense during the period in which the actual loss or change in estimate occurred. Results of Operations Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002 Revenues increased 8% to $10.7 billion, the highest annual revenues in the history of NIKE. Income before the cumulative effect of an accounting change increased to $740.1 million from $668.3 million in the prior year, an increase of 11%. After the effect of the accounting change, net income declined 29% from $663.3 million to $474.0 million. Diluted earnings per share before the effect of the accounting change increased by 13%, from $2.46 to $2.77. After the effect of the accounting change, diluted earnings per share declined 27%. Gross margins increased as a percentage of revenues from 39.3% to 41.0% in fiscal 2003. Selling and administrative expense increased as a percentage of revenues to 29.3% from 28.5% in the prior year. Revenue growth in our international regions drove the 8% increase in consolidated revenues in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. Changes in currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, were responsible for 4% of the consolidated revenue growth. 19 Table of Contents Our largest international region, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), reported 20% revenue growth in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002. This growth reflected a 15 percentage point improvement due to changes in currency exchange rates. Growth in the emerging markets in Central and Eastern Europe was the key driver of the balance of the increase, as our distribution continued to expand in these markets and customer demand increased. Excluding the effect from changes in currency exchange rates, each of our EMEA business units, footwear, apparel, and equipment, delivered revenue growth versus the prior year. EMEA pre tax income grew from $422.4 million in fiscal 2002 to $533.0 million in fiscal 2003. Higher revenues and improved gross margins drove the increase, more than offsetting incremental selling and administrative costs. In Asia Pacific, revenues increased 19% in fiscal 2003; five percentage points of this growth were due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the benefit from changes in currency exchange rates, sales in each Asia Pacific business unit grew in fiscal 2003, as did sales in almost every country of the region, particularly Japan and Korea, driven primarily by heightened consumer demand for our products following the 2002 World Cup and our related marketing campaign, and China, driven primarily by an expansion of retail distribution of our products. Pre tax income for the Asia Pacific region increased from $216.2 million in fiscal 2002 to $295.0 million in fiscal 2003. This increase reflected higher revenues and improved gross margins that more than offset higher selling and administrative costs. In the Americas region, fiscal 2003 revenues decreased 7% compared to fiscal 2002, reflecting higher sales in local currencies that were more than offset by a 15 percentage point decline due to changes in currency exchange rates. This currency exchange impact was due to weaker currencies in the Latin American markets, partially offset by the stronger Canadian dollar. Excluding the currency exchange rate impact, the region experienced sales growth in the footwear and equipment business units slightly offset by a small percentage decrease in the apparel business unit. On a geographic basis, excluding currency exchange rate impacts, the region experienced sales growth in Brazil, Argentina, and Mexico, reflecting stronger consumer demand. The sales growth in Argentina reflected a rebound since fiscal 2002 when that country underwent an economic crisis. Pre tax income for the Americas region grew from $92.1 million in fiscal 2002 to $96.3 million in fiscal 2003. Pre tax income improved despite lower reported revenues primarily due to an improved gross margin percentage. In the U.S. region, revenues were down slightly in fiscal 2003, at $4,658.4 million versus $4,669.6 million in fiscal 2002. U.S. footwear revenues were down 4%, more than offsetting sales growth in U.S. apparel and equipment. U.S. apparel sales increased $95.3 million dollars, primarily driven by increased consumer demand for team licensed apparel. Lower revenues in the footwear business unit were largely the result of a significant change in our U.S. footwear distribution. During fiscal 2003, we began a realignment of our U.S. footwear distribution to address the changing retail marketplace, including our largest customers (Foot Locker) reduction in emphasis on premium footwear in its offerings. The objectives of this realignment are to improve the presentation and profitability of the NIKE brand in the U.S. As a result of changes in both Foot Lockers orders and our product offerings to this account, our fiscal 2003 sales to Foot Locker in the U.S. were significantly below the level of fiscal 2002. At the same time, we expanded the premium products available to other athletic specialty and independent retailers that focus on premium footwear offerings, increasing sales to these accounts significantly. Based upon U.S. futures orders scheduled for delivery through December 2003, we expect that U.S. footwear revenues will remain below prior year levels at least through the first half of fiscal 2004. In the short 20 Table of Contents term, we do not expect to fully offset the revenue decline from Foot Locker in the U.S., and the amounts of future sales to Foot Locker are uncertain. However, we believe the NIKE brand continues to enjoy strong consumer demand and that we will successfully realign our distribution to fulfill consumers demand for our products and generate profitable revenue growth. Our unit sales of footwear in the U.S. increased slightly as compared to fiscal 2002. However, this volume increase was more than offset by a decline in the average price per pair of footwear sold. The reduction in average price per pair in fiscal 2003 versus fiscal 2002 reflected a higher percentage of sales of classic footwear and kids models, which have a lower average price than our more complex adult performance models. Based upon futures orders, average price per pair ordered by customers for delivery in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 was slightly below the prior year, but the average price per pair increased for second quarter orders. U.S. region pre tax income increased from $956.0 million in fiscal 2002 to $957.5 million in fiscal 2003. Pre tax income improved, despite lower revenues and higher selling and administrative expense, due to improved gross margins. Other revenues include revenues from Bauer NIKE Hockey, Inc., Cole Haan Holdings, Inc., Hurley International LLC, and NIKE Golf. In fiscal 2003, we began managing the NIKE Golf operations in our largest golf markets separately from our regional businesses. As a result, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2003, revenues and pre tax income for these businesses have been excluded from the regional results and reported in the Other category. This NIKE Golf information for fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 has been reclassified in this Form 10 K to conform to the fiscal 2003 presentation. Other revenues grew 12% in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002. The addition of revenues from our Hurley business, purchased in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, drove the increase in Other revenues. Other pre tax income declined from $56.8 million in fiscal 2002 to $18.9 million in fiscal 2003. Reduced profitability at NIKE Golf drove this decline, reflecting significantly weaker demand in the U.S. golf market versus fiscal 2002 and start up issues we experienced at a third party distribution facility. We expect that demand in the U.S. for golf products throughout the industry and for our business may remain weak in the near term due to the current slowdown of the U.S. economy. 21 Table of Contents The breakdown of revenues follows: Fiscal 2003 Fiscal 2002 FY03 vs. FY02 % CHG Fiscal 2001 FY02 vs. FY01 % CHG (Dollars in millions) USA Region Footwear $ 3,019.5 $ 3,135.5 (4 )% $ 3,167.4 (1 )% Apparel 1,351.0 1,255.7 8 % 1,207.9 4 % Equipment 287.9 278.4 3 % 273.6 2 % Total USA 4,658.4 4,669.6 4,648.9 EMEA Region Footwear 1,896.0 1,543.8 23 % 1,415.7 9 % Apparel 1,133.1 977.9 16 % 961.0 2 % Equipment 212.6 174.8 22 % 176.3 (1 )% Total EMEA 3,241.7 2,696.5 20 % 2,553.0 6 % Asia Pacific Region Footwear 732.4 640.2 14 % 617.5 4 % Apparel 499.3 403.3 24 % 356.1 13 % Equipment 127.1 98.7 29 % 91.5 8 % Total Asia Pacific 1,358.8 1,142.2 19 % 1,065.1 7 % Americas Region Footwear 337.3 359.1 (6 )% 355.2 1 % Apparel 148.1 167.1 (11 )% 152.1 10 % Equipment 41.6 41.9 (1 )% 31.8 32 % Total Americas 527.0 568.1 (7 )% 539.1 5 % 9,785.9 9,076.4 8 % 8,806.1 3 % Other 911.1 816.6 12 % 682.7 20 % Total Revenues $ 10,697.0 $ 9,893.0 8 % $ 9,488.8 4 % This discussion includes disclosure of pre tax income for our operating segments. We have reported pre tax income for each of our operating segments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. As discussed in Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information in the attached Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, certain corporate costs are not included in pre tax income of our operating segments. Worldwide futures and advance orders for our footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from June 2003 to November 2003 were 5.0% higher than such orders reported in the comparable period of fiscal 2002. Five points of this reported increase were due to changes in currency exchange rates versus the same period last year. On our June 26, 2003 press release, we reported that worldwide futures and advance orders for this period were up 4.4% as compared to last year and that futures and advance orders in the U.S. were down 10% as compared to last year. Our futures program permits changes to orders for a short period of time following the order deadline. Such changes to U.S. orders, most notably additional orders of footwear from Foot Locker, increased the growth in worldwide futures for the June to November period by 0.6 percentage points, to 5.0%, and reduced the decrease in U.S. orders from 10% to 9%. These orders were for footwear consistent with our distribution realignment strategy discussed above. The reported futures orders growth is not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenue growth during this period. This is because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at once orders. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a significant portion of our revenues is not derived from futures orders, including wholesale sales of equipment, 22 Table of Contents U.S. licensed team apparel, Bauer NIKE Hockey, Cole Haan, NIKE Golf, Hurley, and retail sales across all brands. In fiscal 2003, our consolidated gross margin percentage improved 1.7 points as compared to fiscal 2002, from 39.3% to 41.0%. Significant factors contributing to the improved gross margin percentage were as follows: (1) Product cost reductions resulting from our global initiatives to improve efficiency and reduce materials costs. (2) A higher mix of sales of classic footwear models which are generally more profitable than our more complex performance models. Lower pricing of NIKE Golf products as a result of market conditions discussed above partially offset these positive margin drivers. Changes in currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on our gross margin percentage in fiscal 2003 as the benefit of stronger hedge rates in some currencies was offset by weaker hedge rates in other currencies. A significant portion of product purchases for fiscal 2004 are already hedged and we expect that changes in year over year hedge rates will have a net positive effect on our gross margin percentage in fiscal 2004, as the benefits of stronger euro hedge rates more than offset weaker hedge rates in other currencies. Selling and administrative expense increased as a percentage of revenues from 28.5% in fiscal 2002 to 29.3% in fiscal 2003. Both demand creation and operating overhead expense increased as a percentage of revenues. Demand creation expense grew from $1,027.9 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,168.6 million in fiscal 2003. Higher costs incurred in the EMEA region drove the growth in demand creation expense, reflecting, 1) a stronger euro currency exchange rate compared to the U.S. dollar, which resulted in higher U.S. dollar expenses for costs that are euro denominated, 2) our new endorsement agreement with the Manchester United soccer team that became effective in August 2002, and 3) costs of our World Cup marketing campaign incurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. Higher demand creation expenses were also incurred in the Asia Pacific and Americas regions due to the World Cup marketing campaign. We also increased demand creation spending in the U.S. in order to drive continued consumer demand for footwear while we realign our distribution to retail customers. Operating overhead increased from $1,792.5 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,969.0 million in fiscal 2003. Major drivers of this increase were the stronger euro exchange rate, incremental costs related to our on going development of systems and processes supporting our worldwide supply chain, (primarily reflected in the corporate line in our segment presentation of pre tax income in Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information), investments in headcount for our NIKE Golf business, the addition of Hurley overhead costs beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, and overhead costs of additional retail stores in EMEA and Asia Pacific. As part of our worldwide supply chain initiative, we implemented new systems in the EMEA region in fiscal 2003. Prior to the EMEA region implementation, we implemented new systems and processes for certain global functions and for our U.S. and Canadian businesses. Over the next few years, we will continue to enhance and refine the systems and processes in the U.S., EMEA and Canada as well as implement our new supply chain platform in the remaining countries in which we operate. Over this time period, operating overhead expense will continue to include costs of the supply chain initiative as well as costs for supporting our existing system infrastructure for those businesses where we have not yet implemented the new systems. This initiative is intended to improve revenue (by increasing our ability to respond to market conditions), margins (by lowering close outs and distribution costs) and cash flow (by reducing inventories). In the U.S., where the new systems have been in place for over a year, we have begun to see improvements in several key performance measures. The ultimate level of benefit, if any, to revenues, margins, and cash flows will not be known until the new systems and processes have been implemented in the remaining countries in which we operate and globally integrated over the next few years. Interest expense decreased from $47.6 million in fiscal 2002 to $42.9 million in fiscal 2003, a decline of 10%. The decrease reflected both lower interest rates and lower average debt levels, as we have used cash flow from operations to reduce total debt. 23 Table of Contents Other income/expense was net expense of $79.9 million compared to net expense of $3.0 million in fiscal 2002. Significant amounts included in other income/expense were interest income, profit sharing expense, goodwill amortization (fiscal 2002 only), and certain foreign currency gains and losses. An increase in net foreign currency losses was the largest contributor to the increase in other expense versus last year. These foreign currency losses were primarily due to hedge losses on intercompany charges to a European subsidiary, whose functional currency is the euro. These losses are reflected in the Corporate line in our segment presentation of pre tax income in Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information. The hedge losses reflected that the euro has strengthened considerably since we entered into these hedge contracts. In fiscal 2003, net foreign currency losses in other income/expense were more than offset by favorable translation of foreign currency denominated profits. Our estimate of the net impact of these losses and the favorable translation is a $13 million addition to consolidated income before income taxes. Consistent with our existing policies, we have continued to hedge anticipated intercompany charges for fiscal 2004. Since the euro has continued to strengthen since these hedge contracts were executed, we expect to continue to incur some hedge losses in fiscal 2004. However, we expect the net impact of the hedge losses and the offsetting positive translation impact will result in a net benefit to fiscal 2004 consolidated net income versus the prior year. Our fiscal 2003 effective tax rate was 34.1%, relatively consistent with the fiscal 2002 effective rate of 34.3%. Included in fiscal 2003 net income was a $266.1 million charge for the cumulative effect of implementing FAS 142. This charge related to the impairment of goodwill and trademarks associated with Bauer NIKE Hockey and the goodwill of Cole Haan, reflecting that the fair values we estimated for these assets were less than the carrying values. In addition, the adoption of this accounting standard resulted in a reduction to goodwill and intangible asset amortization of $13.1 million as compared to fiscal 2002. See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 4 Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill) for further information. Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001 Revenues increased 4% to $9.9 billion, compared to $9.5 billion in fiscal 2001. Income before the cumulative effect of an accounting change increased to $668.3 million from $589.7 million in the prior year, an increase of 13%. After the effect of the accounting change, net income rose 12%. Diluted earnings per share before the effect of the accounting change increased by 14%, from $2.16 to $2.46. After the effect of the accounting change, diluted earnings per share rose 13%. Gross margins increased as a percentage of revenues to 39.3% from 39.0% in fiscal 2001. Selling and administrative expense increased as a percentage of revenues to 28.5% from 28.3% in fiscal 2001. Included in fiscal 2002 net income was a $5.0 million after tax loss related to the cumulative effect of the adoption of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. As discussed above, our fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 Nike Golf information has been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2003 presentation. This presentation reflects significant NIKE Golf operations as a separate business in the Other category rather than within each of our geographical regions. The following discussion of fiscal 2002 results versus fiscal 2001 by region reflects this reclassification of NIKE Golf operations. This reclassification did not result in any change to our previously reported consolidated results, nor did it result in a significant change to the previously reported revenue and profitability trends in each of our regional businesses in fiscal 2002. This reclassification did result in significantly higher revenues and profits reported in the Other category. 24 Table of Contents In the U.S. region, revenues were flat in fiscal 2002 versus fiscal 2001, reflecting increased sales of apparel and equipment offset by decreased sales of footwear. The increased sales in apparel reflected higher demand for in line products, particularly for NIKE brand and Brand Jordan basketball apparel, more than offsetting the effect of the expiration of our apparel license agreement with the National Football League in fiscal 2001. While in line sales of footwear increased in fiscal 2002, particularly in the mid range price segment, close out sales decreased significantly. The reduction in close out sales reflected both our efforts to limit the availability of close out products in the marketplace (in order to build overall profitability) and relatively high levels of close out sales in the last half of fiscal 2001 due to supply chain system disruptions. As in the apparel business, sales of NIKE brand and Brand Jordan basketball footwear products were the primary drivers of increased wholesale sales of in line footwear during the year. Despite revenues and selling and administrative expense being essentially consistent with fiscal 2001, U.S. pre tax income increased from $905.0 million to $956.0 million, driven primarily by an improved gross margin percentage. In fiscal 2002, revenues from our international regions grew 6% versus the prior year. Changes in currency exchange rates decreased the international region growth rate 6 percentage points and decreased our consolidated growth rate 3 percentage points. Fiscal 2002 reported revenues in EMEA increased by 6% over fiscal 2001, including a 4 percentage point decrease due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the negative effect of currency exchange rates, EMEA revenues grew in each of our business units, footwear, apparel, and equipment and in almost every country in the region, reflecting increasing demand for NIKE brand products throughout EMEA. EMEA pre tax income grew 16% from $363.4 million to $422.4 million. Growth in revenues and a higher gross margin percentage drove the increase in pre tax income. In our Asia Pacific region, reported revenues grew 7%, including a 10 percentage point decrease due to changes in currency exchange rates. Asia Pacific revenues grew in each business unit and in almost every country in the region, with the largest growth coming from Japan, Korea, and China. Pre tax income for the Asia Pacific region increased from $184.4 million to $216.2 million. The increase in revenues and lower selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues drove the growth in pre tax income, which was partially offset by a decline in gross margin percentage. The Americas region reported revenues grew 5%, including a 7 percentage point decrease due to changes in currency exchange rates, despite a drop off in sales in Argentina during the second half of fiscal 2002 as a result of the countrys economic crisis. Revenues in the Americas region grew in each of our business units, led by growth in Canada, Mexico, and Brazil. Pre tax income for the Americas region increased from $81.6 million to $92.1 million. The increase in revenues and lower selling and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues drove the growth in pre tax income, which was partially offset by a decline in gross margin percentage. In fiscal 2002, Other revenues, including revenues from Bauer NIKE Hockey, Cole Haan, Hurley, and NIKE Golf, increased 20% to $816.6 million, driven by growth in NIKE Golf. The Hurley acquisition did not have a significant impact on fiscal 2002 revenues since the acquisition did not occur until the last quarter of fiscal 2002. Other pre tax income declined from $74.2 million to $56.8 million, driven by a decline in profitability at Cole Haan. Despite slight revenue growth at Cole Haan during the year, pre tax income declined due to relatively high discounting and inventory obsolescence as a result of depressed consumer demand in the wake of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. 25 Table of Contents Our gross margin percentage improved from 39.0% in fiscal 2001 to 39.3% in fiscal 2002. Factors contributing to the improved gross margin percentage in fiscal 2002 were as follows: (1) Higher in line pricing margins in EMEA, due to the effect of higher prices effective at the beginning of the fiscal year and sourcing and warehousing efficiencies, partially offset by the effect of weaker euro/U.S. dollar currency hedge rates relative to fiscal 2001. (2) Higher footwear margins in the U.S. due in part to lower product costs and lower transportation costs, as a result of both effective negotiations with shippers and lower air freight costs incurred. Relatively higher air freight costs were incurred in fiscal 2001 due to supply chain system problems. (3) A higher mix of in line sales versus close out sales of U.S. footwear, reflecting increased demand for in line footwear and lower close out sales as compared to fiscal 2001 as discussed above. Selling and administrative expense increased as a percentage of revenues from 28.3% in fiscal 2001 to 28.5% in fiscal 2002. Operating overhead increased 6% in fiscal 2002. Significant drivers of the increased operating overhead included increased investment in our supply chain initiative, additional headcount to support our golf and European businesses due to business growth, additional expense for compensation programs tied to our profitability and stock performance, and costs for additional retail stores primarily in our EMEA and Asia Pacific regions. Demand creation expense was $1,027.9 million in fiscal 2002 versus $998.2 million in fiscal 2001, which was consistent between years as a percentage of revenues. Our fiscal 2002 demand creation expense reflected incremental spending for our World Cup 2002 marketing campaign, which began in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. Interest expense decreased 19%, from $58.7 million in fiscal 2001 to $47.6 million in fiscal 2002. The decrease reflected both lower interest rates and lower average debt levels, as we used cash flow from operations to reduce total debt. Other income/expense was a net expense of $3.0 million in fiscal 2002 versus a net expense of $34.1 million in fiscal 2001. Significant amounts included in other income/expense included interest income, profit sharing expense, goodwill amortization, certain foreign currency gains and losses, and asset disposal gains/losses. Net other expense decreased between years as the fiscal 2001 amount included charges for contractual settlements that did not recur in fiscal 2002. In addition, fiscal 2002 other income/expense included credits related to the favorable resolution of some outstanding claims. Our fiscal 2002 effective tax rate was 34.3% as compared to 36.0% in fiscal 2001. As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we do not accrue a U.S. tax liability on foreign earnings permanently invested offshore. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal 2002 is primarily the result of a larger amount of foreign earnings permanently invested offshore in fiscal 2002 than in fiscal 2001. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (FAS 143). This statement requires that a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized at fair value in the period the obligation is incurred and the associated retirement costs be capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the related tangible long lived asset. All provisions of this statement will be effective for the Company on June 1, 2003. We do not expect that the adoption of FAS 143 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146 Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities (FAS 146). This statement supercedes Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 94 3 Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring), FAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred. Under EITF 94 3, a liability was recognized at the date an entity committed to an exit plan. FAS 146 also establishes that the liability should initially be measured and recorded at fair value. The provisions of FAS 146 are effective for any exit and disposal activities initiated after 26 Table of Contents December 31, 2002. We have not entered into any significant exit or disposal activities since the effective date of this rule. As such, FAS 146 has not had an impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations, and no significant impact is expected in the foreseeable future. In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (FIN 45). FIN 45 requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, a guarantor must recognize a liability for the fair value of an obligation assumed under a guarantee. FIN 45 also requires additional disclosures by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about the obligations associated with guarantees issued. The recognition provisions of FIN 45 are effective for any guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements of FIN 45 were effective beginning with the third quarter of fiscal 2003. In connection with various contracts and agreements, we provide routine indemnifications relating to the enforceability of intellectual property rights, coverage for legal issues that arise, and other items that fall under the scope of FIN 45. Currently, we have several such agreements in place. However, based on our historical experience and estimated probability of future loss, we have determined that the fair value of such indemnifications is not material. Hence, the adoption of FIN 45 has not had an impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations, and no significant impact is expected in the foreseeable future. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 (FAS 148). This statement amends SFAS No. 123 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (FAS 123) to provide alternative methods of voluntarily transitioning to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. FAS 148 also amends the disclosure requirements of FAS 123 to require disclosure of the method used to account for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method on reported results in both annual and interim financial statements. The disclosure provisions are effective for us beginning with this fiscal 2003 annual report on Form 10 K. The annual impact of a change to the fair value model prescribed by FAS 123 has been disclosed in our previous 10 K filings, and the applicable disclosures in this report are in Note 1 and Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. At this time, we plan to continue to account for stock based compensation using the intrinsic method prescribed in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, rather than change to the FAS 123 fair value method. In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46). This interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, addresses consolidation of variable interest entities. FIN 46 requires certain variable interest entities to be consolidated by the primary beneficiary if the entity does not effectively disperse risks among the parties involved. The provisions of FIN 46 are effective immediately for those variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. The provisions are effective for the first period beginning after June 15, 2003 for those variable interests held prior to February 1, 2003. We do not currently have any variable interest entities as defined in FIN 46. Accordingly, we do not expect the provisions of FIN 46 to affect our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Fiscal 2003 Cash Flow Activity Cash provided by operations was $917.4 million in fiscal 2003, compared to $1,081.5 million in fiscal 2002. Our primary source of operating cash flow was income before the cumulative effect of an accounting change of $740.1 million. Operating cash flow decreased compared to the prior year due to increased investment in certain working capital components during fiscal 2003, including inventories. While a decline in inventory levels provided a source of cash during fiscal 2002, an increase in inventory levels during fiscal 2003 resulted in a use of cash, primarily due to our decision to purchase product for the U.S. back to school selling season earlier than we did last year in order to improve the timeliness of shipments to customers. Cash used by investing activities during fiscal 2003 was $215.6 million, compared to $302.8 million invested during fiscal 2002. The most significant investing activities in both periods were expenditures for 27 Table of Contents computer equipment and software related to our supply chain initiative and continued investment in NIKE owned retail stores. Spending for both of these activities declined in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. Additionally, fiscal 2002 spending included our acquisition of all of the assets and substantially all of the liabilities of Hurley International LLC, an action sports and youth lifestyle brand company. Costs incurred for distribution center projects increased in fiscal 2003, the largest project being construction of a new storage building in Japan, with scheduled opening in the second half of fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2004, we will continue to make investments in systems improvements (most notably the supply chain initiative), retail expansion, and our worldwide distribution center facilities. Additionally, during the first quarter of fiscal 2004, we entered into an agreement to purchase Converse Inc., discussed further below. Cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2003 was $605.2 million, up from $478.2 million in the prior year. This amount included uses of cash for dividends to shareholders, a net reduction in debt, and share repurchases. These uses of cash were partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. The share repurchases were part of a $1.0 billion share repurchase program that began in fiscal 2001, after completion of a four year, $1.0 billion program in fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2003, we repurchased 4.0 million shares of NIKEs Class B common stock for $191.0 million. To date, under the current program, we have purchased a total of 12.3 million shares of NIKEs Class B common stock for $585.7 million. We expect to continue to fund the current program from operating cash flow. The timing and the ultimate amount of shares purchased under the program will be dictated by our capital needs and stock market conditions. Long term Financial Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments Our significant long term contractual obligations as of May 31, 2003 and significant endorsement contracts entered into through the date of this report are as follows: Cash Payments Due During the Year Ended May 31, Description of Commitment 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total (In millions) Operating Leases $ 188.9 149.6 129.5 111.1 92.2 505.6 $ 1,176.9 Long term Debt 205.7 5.9 5.9 255.9 30.9 227.5 731.8 Endorsement Contracts 338.6 292.1 247.2 230.7 129.1 204.7 1,442.4 Other 25.5 9.5 2.5 1.4 1.2 0.2 40.3 The amounts listed for endorsement contracts represent approximate amounts of base compensation and minimum guaranteed royalty fees we are obligated to pay athlete and sport team endorsers of our products. Actual payments under some contracts will likely be higher than the amounts listed as these contracts provide for bonuses to be paid to the endorsers based upon athletic achievements in future periods. Actual payments under some contracts may also be lower as a limited number of contracts include provisions for reduced payments if athlete performance declines in future periods. In addition to the cash payments disclosed above, we are obligated to furnish the endorsers with NIKE products for their use. It is not possible to determine how much we will spend on this product on an annual basis as the contracts do not stipulate a specific amount of cash to be spent on the product. The amount of product provided to the endorsers will depend on many factors including general playing conditions, the number of sporting events in which they participate, and our own decisions regarding product and marketing initiatives. In addition, the costs to design, develop, source, and purchase the products furnished to the endorsers are incurred over a period of time and are not necessarily tracked separately from similar costs incurred for products sold to customers. An outsourcing contractor provides us with information technology operations management services through 2006. The amount of the payments in future years depends on our level of monthly use of the different elements of the contractors services. If we were to terminate the entire contract as of May 31, 2003, we would be required to provide the contractor with four months notice and pay a termination fee of $32.7 million. Our monthly payments to the contractor currently are approximately $6 million. 28 Table of Contents We also have the following outstanding short term debt obligations as of May 31, 2003. Please refer to the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 6 Short term Borrowings and Credit Lines) for further description and interest rates related to the short term debt obligations listed below. Outstanding as of May 31, 2003 (In millions) Notes payable, due at mutually agreed upon dates, generally ninety days from issuance or on demand $ 75.4 Payable to Nissho Iwai American Company (NIAC) for the purchase of inventories, generally due sixty days after shipment of goods from a foreign port $ 49.6 As of May 31, 2003, letters of credit of $704.4 million were outstanding, primarily for the purchase of inventory. All letters of credit generally expire within one year. On July 9, 2003, we entered into an agreement to purchase all of the equity shares of Converse Inc., a widely recognized footwear company based in Massachusetts, for $305 million cash. Prior to closing, this transaction is subject to regulatory review, including U.S. government review under the Hart Scott Rodino Premerger Notification Act. If the acquisition is completed, we do not expect it will have a significant effect on our liquidity, results of operations or financial position in the short term. While we do expect a positive impact on our long term profitability from this acquisition, we cannot reasonably estimate this impact at this time. Capital Resources In October 2001, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under which $1.0 billion in debt securities may be issued. In May 2002, we commenced a medium term note program under the shelf registration that allows us to issue up to $500.0 million in medium term notes, as our capital needs dictate. We entered into this program to provide additional liquidity to meet our working capital and general corporate cash requirements. During fiscal 2003, we issued a total of $90 million in notes under the medium term note program. The notes have coupon rates that range from 4.80% to 5.66%. The maturities range from July 9, 2007 to August 7, 2012. For each of the notes, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the notes and pay variable interest payments based on the three month or six month London Inter Bank Offering Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread. Each swap has the same notional amount and maturity date as its respective note. After issuance of these notes, $410.0 million remains available to be issued under our medium note program, and another $500.0 million remains available to be issued under our shelf registration statement. We may issue additional notes under the shelf registration in fiscal 2004 depending on working capital general corporate needs. As of May 31, 2003, we had a total of $1.0 billion available under two committed credit facilities in place with a group of banks, and we currently have no amounts outstanding under either facility. The first facility is a $500.0 million, 364 day facility that will mature on November 14, 2003 and can be extended 364 days on each maturity date. The second facility is a $500.0 million, multi year facility that matures on November 17, 2005, and once a year it can be extended for one additional year. Both of these facilities have been in place since fiscal 2001. During fiscal 2003, upon renewal in November 2002, the 364 day facility was reduced from $600.0 million to $500.0 million. Based on our current long term senior unsecured debt ratings of A and A2 from Standard and Poors Corporation and Moodys Investor Services, respectively, the interest rate charged on any outstanding borrowings on the 364 day facility would be the prevailing LIBOR plus 0.24%, and the interest rate charged on any outstanding borrowings on the multi year facility would be the prevailing LIBOR plus 0.22%. The facility fees for the 364 day facility and the multi year facility are 0.06% and 0.08%, respectively, of the total commitment. If our long term debt rating were to decline, the facility fees and interest rates under our committed credit facilities would increase. Conversely, if our long term debt rating were to improve, the facility fees and interest 29 Table of Contents rates would decrease. Changes in our long term debt rating would not trigger acceleration of maturity of any then outstanding borrowings or any future borrowings under the committed credit facilities. However, under these committed credit facilities, we have agreed to various covenants. These covenants include limits on our disposal of fixed assets and the amount of debt secured by liens we may incur, and set a minimum ratio of net worth to indebtedness. In the event we were to have any borrowings outstanding under these facilities, failed to meet any covenant, and were unable to obtain a waiver from a majority of the banks, any borrowings would become immediately due and payable. As of May 31, 2003, we were in full compliance with each of these covenants and believe it is unlikely we will fail to meet any of these covenants in the foreseeable future. Liquidity is also provided by our commercial paper program, under which there was no amount outstanding at May 31, 2003 and $338.3 million outstanding at May 31, 2002. We currently have short term debt ratings of A1 and P1 from Standard and Poors Corporation and Moodys Investor Services, respectively. We currently believe that cash generated by operations, together with access to external sources of funds as described above, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs in the foreseeable future. Dividends per share of common stock for fiscal 2003 were $0.54, compared to $0.48 in fiscal 2002. We have paid a dividend every quarter since February 1984. We review our dividend policy from time to time; however, based upon current projected earnings and cash flow requirements, we anticipate continuing to pay a quarterly dividend in the foreseeable future. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk In the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. It is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. We are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, production and funding activities. Our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. We use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party or intercompany transactions. When we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. Generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months, although at May 31, 2003 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 18 months. The majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by our European and Japanese subsidiaries. We use forward contracts and cross currency swaps to hedge foreign currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. When intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. Hedged transactions are principally denominated in European currencies, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars, Korean won, Mexican pesos and Australian dollars. Our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long term market interest rates. Our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, and bank loans and have entered into interest rate swaps under which we receive fixed interest and pay variable interest. Market Risk Measurement We monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and Value at Risk (VaR). Our market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the SEC, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debt. 30 Table of Contents We use VaR to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. The VaR determines the maximum potential one day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate sensitive financial instruments. The VaR model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. There are various modeling techniques that can be used in the VaR computation. Our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co variance technique). These interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year. The value of foreign currency options does not change on a one to one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. We adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma) to changes in the underlying currency rate. This calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and hence does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on the underlying based transactions that are anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies from the VaR calculation, including those which are hedged by these instruments. The VaR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. It also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. Actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. The estimated maximum one day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the VaR model, was $21.0 million and $13.7 million at May 31, 2003 and May 31, 2002, respectively. The increase in VaR as of May 31, 2003 occurred due to the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the May 31, 2003 VaR computation versus the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the May 31, 2002 VaR computation. Such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. The average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $43.3 million and $42.9 million for fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, respectively. Details of other market sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the VaR calculation above are provided in the table below, except the interest rate swaps which are described below. These instruments include intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, cross currency swaps, and interest rate swaps. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. We have excluded the cross currency swaps from the foreign exchange risk category because these instruments eliminate all foreign currency exposure in the cash flows of a euro denominated intercompany loan. We have included these cross currency swaps in the interest rate risk category but excluded the related intercompany loan from this category because the intercompany interest eliminates in consolidation. For the cross currency swaps the table presents both the euro swap payable and U.S. dollar swap receivable and the respective pay and receive interest rates. All information is presented in millions of U.S. dollars, except interest rates. Intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. Intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts and swaps with third parties. The fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by two of our Japanese subsidiaries. Accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss upon the consolidation of these subsidiaries. There were no significant changes in debt or cross currency swap market risks during fiscal 2003. The U.S. dollar fair values of intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies was $649.4 million at May 31, 2002, which is the same as the carrying values of the loans prior to their elimination. The U.S. dollar fair value of the fixed rate Japanese yen denominated debt that was outstanding at May 31, 2002 was $207.4 million versus a carrying value of $181.4 million at that date. The U.S. dollar fair values of the fixed rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, the euro swap payable and the U.S. dollar swap receivable as of May 31, 2002 were $516.5 million, $196.2 million and $267.9 million, respectively, versus carrying values of $499.8 million, $188.8 million and $250.0 million, respectively, at that date. 31 Table of Contents In fiscal 2002 we issued a $250 million long term fixed rate corporate bond which matures in August 2006. In fiscal 2003, we issued an additional $90 million in long term fixed rate corporate bonds which mature on various dates beginning in July 2007 through August 2012. Fixed interest rates on these bonds range from 4.8% to 5.66%. For each of these bonds issued in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2003, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the bonds and pay variable interest payments based on the three month or six month LIBOR plus a spread. Each swap has the same notional amount and maturity date as the corresponding bond. As a result of the interest rate swap agreements, the average effective interest rate payable on these bonds was 2.5% at May 31, 2003 and 3.3% at May 31, 2002. These interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges, so changes in the recorded fair values of the swaps are offset by changes in the recorded fair value of the related debt. The recorded fair value of the interest rate swaps was a $25.5 million gain at May 31, 2003 and a $1.8 million loss at May 31, 2002. In fiscal 2003 we also entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to a Japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our Japanese subsidiaries. The Japanese subsidiary pays variable interest on the intercompany loan based on 3 month LIBOR plus a spread. Under the interest rate swap agreement, the subsidiary pays fixed interest payments at 0.8% and receives variable interest payments based on 3 month LIBOR plus a spread based on a notional amount of 8 billion Japanese yen. This interest rate swap is not accounted for as a hedge, accordingly changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded to net income. As of May 31, 2003, the recorded fair value of the swap was a $1.0 million loss. Expected Maturity Date Year Ended May 31, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total Fair Value (In millions, except interest rates) Foreign Exchange Risk Euro Functional Currency Intercompany loan U.S. dollardenominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 270.4 $ 270.4 $ 270.4 Average interest rate 2.7 % 2.7 % Intercompany loan British pounddenominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 30.0 $ 30.0 $ 30.0 Average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Intercompany loans Eurodenominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 186.0 $ 186.0 $ 186.0 Average interest rate 5.6 % 5.6 % Intercompany loan Japanese yendenominated Variable rate Principal payments $ 189.1 $ 189.1 $ 189.1 Average interest rate 0.4 % 0.4 % Intercompany loan Canadian dollardenominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 36.3 $ 36.3 $ 36.3 Average interest rate 3.5 % 3.5 % Japanese Yen Functional Currency Long term Japanese yen debt Fixed rate Principal payments $ 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 161.6 $ 190.1 $ 234.5 Average interest rate 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 2.9 % 3.0 % Interest Rate Risk Japanese Yen Functional Currency Long term Japanese yen debt Fixed rate Principal payments $ 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 161.6 $ 190.1 $ 234.5 Average interest rate 3.3 % 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 2.9 % 3.0 % U.S. Dollar Functional CurrencyLong term U.S. dollar debt Fixed rate Principal payments $ 200.0 250.0 25.0 65.0 $ 540.0 $ 582.2 Average interest rate 5.7 % 5.4 % 5.4 % 5.4 % 5.5 % 5.5 % 5.5 % Fixed euro for fixed U.S. dollarcross currency swap Euro swap payable $ 186.0 $ 186.0 $ 193.5 U.S. dollar swap receivable $ 200.0 $ 200.0 $ 211.6 Average pay rate (euro) 5.6 % 5.6 % Average receive rate (U.S. dollars) 6.5 % 6.5 % 32 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Analyst Reports Certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to NIKEs business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by NIKE or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements. The risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by NIKE with the SEC, including Forms 8 K, 10 Q, and 10 K, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for NIKE products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for NIKE products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining NIKEs increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at once orders; the ability of NIKE to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of NIKEs products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas and political and economic instability; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against NIKE; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect NIKEs business and financial performance. Moreover, NIKE operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on NIKEs business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also be aware that while NIKE does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against NIKEs policy to disclose to them any material non public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that NIKE agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, NIKE has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of NIKE. 
 
