Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview NIKE designs, develops and markets high quality footwear, apparel, equipment, and accessory products worldwide. We are the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic apparel in the world and sell our products primarily through a combination of retail accounts in the United States and through a mix of independent distributors, licensees and subsidiaries in over 120 countries. Our goal is to deliver value to five constituencies: shareholders, consumers, business partners, employees and the community. We aim to deliver that value by focusing on our mission To bring inspiration and innovation to every athlete* in the world *If you have a body, you are an athlete. and building our capabilities in four key areas: Deepening our relationship with consumers; Delivering superior, innovative product to the marketplace; Making our supply chain a competitive advantage, through operational discipline and excellence; and Accelerating growth through focused execution. We believe we can create value for our shareholders in striving for the following key long term financial goals: High single digit revenue growth; Mid teens earnings per share growth; Increased return on invested capital and accelerated cash flows; and Delivery of consistent results through management of our diversified portfolio of businesses. 14 Table of Contents In fiscal 2004 we met or surpassed these goals primarily through a combination of revenue growth and gross margin improvements across our businesses, management of working capital and share repurchases. In addition, the impact of foreign currency changes has had a significant favorable impact on this years financial results. Although in any particular quarter or even annual period we may not meet some or all of the financial goals outlined above, we believe these are appropriate goals for the longer term. Results of Operations 2004 2003 % Change 2002 % Change Revenues $ 12,253.1 $ 10,697.0 15 % $ 9,893.0 8 % Cost of sales 7,001.4 6,313.6 11 % 6,004.7 5 % Gross margin 5,251.7 4,383.4 20 % 3,888.3 13 % Gross margin % 42.9 % 41.0 % 39.3 % Selling and administrative 3,702.0 3,154.1 17 % 2,835.8 11 % % of Revenues 30.2 % 29.5 % 28.7 % Income before cumulative effect of accounting change 945.6 740.1 28 % 668.3 11 % Net income 945.6 474.0 99 % 663.3 (29 )% Diluted earnings per share before accounting change 3.51 2.77 27 % 2.46 13 % Diluted earnings per share 3.51 1.77 98 % 2.44 (27 )% Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003 Consolidated Operating Results In fiscal 2004, consolidated revenues grew 15 percent versus fiscal 2003; seven percentage points of this growth can be attributed to changes in currency exchange rates, primarily the stronger euro. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency, revenue growth in our international regions contributed 3 percentage points to the consolidated revenue growth and all three of our international regions posted higher revenues, with our Asia Pacific Region making the largest contribution. Converse, which was acquired at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal 2004, contributed 2 percentage points of consolidated revenue growth. See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 15 Acquisition) for additional information related to the acquisition. Improved sales in the U.S Region and increases in our Other businesses drove the balance of the consolidated revenue growth. During fiscal 2004, our consolidated gross margin percentage improved 190 basis points versus the prior year, from 41.0% to 42.9%. The primary factors contributing to the improved gross margin percentage for fiscal 2004 were as follows: (1) Changes in hedge rates, primarily the euro, represented 70 basis points of improvement for fiscal 2004. The positive impact of hedge rates on the fiscal 2004 gross margin percentage was most significant in the fourth quarter, contributing 140 basis points of the year over year quarterly improvement. As a majority of product purchases for fiscal 2005 have been hedged, we expect a positive impact on our gross margin percentage in fiscal 2005 due to improved year over year hedge rates, primarily for the euro. See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 16 Risk Management and Derivatives) for additional information on hedges. (2) Higher in line pricing margins (net revenue for current product offerings minus landed product cost) drove approximately 70 basis points of the improvement in the consolidated gross margin percentage for fiscal 2004. This is primarily attributable to improved footwear margins as a result of lower product costs due to manufacturing efficiencies, reduced materials costs and lower air freight. 15 Table of Contents (3) Improved profitability on wholesale closeout sales (non current product offerings), primarily in the U.S. and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) regions due to improved closeout pricing margins, partially offset by increased obsolescence reserves due to a less favorable mix of product remaining in closeout inventory. These factors represented approximately 10 basis points of the improvement in the consolidated gross margin percentage for fiscal 2004. (4) Most of the remaining increase was due to improved gross margin percentages for NIKE owned retail stores in the U.S. and EMEA regions, which contributed approximately 30 basis points of the improvement in consolidated gross margins for fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2004 selling and administrative expense, comprised of demand creation and operating overhead, grew 17% versus fiscal 2003. Demand creation (advertising and promotion) expense grew 18% to $1,377.9 million in fiscal 2004. Seven percentage points of the increase in demand creation was due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency rates, the increase in demand creation spending for the fiscal year was attributable to higher spending on endorsement contracts in the U.S., primarily basketball (3 percentage point impact), incremental investment in retail marketing in the U.S., EMEA, and Asia Pacific regions (3 percentage point impact), and higher advertising spending in the Asia Pacific region (1 percentage point impact). The addition of Converse contributed 2 percentage points of the demand creation increase for the year. Operating overhead for fiscal 2004 was $2,324.1 million, a 17% increase over fiscal 2003. Currency exchange rates contributed 5 percentage points of the increase. The addition of Converse accounted for 2 percentage points of growth. Other key factors driving the increase in operating overhead for the fiscal year were: (a) increased incentive based compensation for employees (3 percentage points); and (b) increased costs to support the growth of our NIKE Golf, Cole Haan, Bauer NIKE Hockey and Hurley businesses (2 percentage points). The remaining increase, about 5 percentage points, is primarily attributable to normal wage increases and some added infrastructure necessary to support global business growth, including costs related to our worldwide supply chain initiative and additional factory outlet stores in the EMEA Region. Over the last five years, as part of the ongoing initiative to upgrade our worldwide supply chain, we have implemented new systems in Canada, the U.S. and EMEA regions and are now implementing them in Japan, Southeast Asia and our Hong Kong Apparel operations. Over the next few years, we will work to continue to enhance the systems and related processes in these operations and complete the implementation of new systems in the remainder of our global operations. This initiative is intended to improve revenue (by increasing our ability to respond to market conditions); improve margins (by lowering the volume of close out inventories and distribution costs including inbound air freight); and improve cash flow (by reducing inventories and accounts receivable through better visibility). In the U.S. and EMEA regions, where the new systems have been in place for over a year, we have begun to see improvements in several key performance measures including gross margins (see above) and cash flows (see below). The ultimate level of benefit to revenues, margins, and cash flows will not be known until the new systems and processes have been implemented in the remaining countries in which we operate and globally integrated in subsequent years. At fiscal year end, approximately 80 percent of NIKEs businesses had completed implementation of the new systems. During the period of implementation, operating overhead expense will continue to include both the cost of implementing and operating new systems and the cost of supporting the legacy systems. We anticipate completing the majority of the remaining implementations over the next two years. Other expense, net, was $74.7 million for fiscal 2004 compared to $77.5 million in fiscal 2003. Beginning this fiscal year, interest income and profit sharing expense previously included in other expense, net, are included in interest expense, net, and selling and administrative expense, respectively. The presentation of prior year amounts has been adjusted to conform to the current classification. The most significant components of other expense, net (comprising approximately 64 percent of this years net expense and 79 percent of fiscal 2003s net expense), was foreign currency losses (primarily hedge losses on intercompany charges to a European subsidiary, whose functional currency is the euro), and hedge losses from that subsidiarys investments in U.S. Dollar denominated debt securities available for sale. These losses are reflected in the Corporate line in our segment 16 Table of Contents presentation of pre tax income in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information). The hedge losses reflect that the euro has strengthened considerably since we entered into these hedge contracts. Also included in other expense, net, for fiscal 2004 was an increase in net losses on asset disposals, including a loss of $5.3 million on land gifted to the NIKE Foundation in the first quarter. In 2004, net foreign currency losses in other expense, net, were more than offset by favorable translation of foreign currency denominated profits, most significantly in EMEA. Our estimate of the net impact of these losses and the favorable translation is a $157 million addition to consolidated income before income taxes compared to the prior year. Consistent with our existing policies, in fiscal 2005 we have continued to hedge a portion of anticipated intercompany charges and investments in U.S. Dollar denominated debt securities available for sale. We expect the net impact of any hedge losses or gains and the offsetting translation impact will result in a significantly lower net benefit to fiscal 2005 than was realized in fiscal 2004. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2004 was 34.8%, which is higher than the fiscal 2003 rate of 34.1% as a result of a higher tax provision on foreign earnings in fiscal 2004. Included in net income for fiscal 2003 was a $266.1 million charge for the cumulative effect of implementing Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, (FAS 142). This charge related to the impairment of goodwill and trademarks associated with Bauer NIKE Hockey and the goodwill of Cole Haan, reflecting that the fair values we estimated for these assets were less than the carrying values. See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 4 Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill) for further information. Worldwide futures and advance orders for footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from June through November 2004 were 11.3% higher than such orders reported for the comparable period of fiscal 2003. One point of this reported increase was due to changes in currency exchange rates versus the same period last year. Excluding this currency impact, higher average selling prices for footwear across all regions contributed 3 points of the growth in overall futures and advance orders. The remaining increase was due to volume increases for both apparel and footwear. On our June 24, 2004 press release, we reported that worldwide futures and advance orders for this period were up 10.7% as compared to last year. Our futures program permits changes to orders for a short period of time following the order deadline. Such changes to orders, most notably in the U.S. and Asia Pacific regions, increased the growth in worldwide futures for the June through November period by 0.6 percentage points to 11.3%. As always, the reported futures orders growth is not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenue growth during this period. This is because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at once orders. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including wholesale sales of equipment, U.S. licensed team apparel, Bauer NIKE Hockey, Cole Haan, Converse, NIKE Golf, Hurley, and retail sales across all brands. 17 Table of Contents Operating Segments The breakdown of revenues follows: Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2003 FY04 vs.FY03 % CHG Fiscal 2002 FY03 vs.FY02 % CHG (Dollars in millions) U.S. Region Footwear $ 3,070.4 $ 3,019.5 2 % $ 3,135.5 (4 )% Apparel 1,433.5 1,351.0 6 % 1,255.7 8 % Equipment 289.8 287.9 1 % 278.4 3 % Total U.S. 4,793.7 4,658.4 3 % 4,669.6 EMEA Region Footwear 2,232.2 1,896.0 18 % 1,543.8 23 % Apparel 1,333.8 1,133.1 18 % 977.9 16 % Equipment 268.4 212.6 26 % 174.8 22 % Total EMEA 3,834.4 3,241.7 18 % 2,696.5 20 % Asia Pacific Region Footwear 855.3 730.6 17 % 638.2 14 % Apparel 612.3 497.8 23 % 400.6 24 % Equipment 145.8 120.8 21 % 96.1 26 % Total Asia Pacific 1,613.4 1,349.2 20 % 1,134.9 19 % Americas Region Footwear 412.0 337.3 22 % 359.1 (6 )% Apparel 165.8 148.1 12 % 167.1 (11 )% Equipment 47.0 41.6 13 % 41.9 (1 )% Total Americas 624.8 527.0 19 % 568.1 (7 )% 10,866.3 9,776.3 11 % 9,069.1 8 % Other 1,386.8 920.7 51 % 823.9 12 % Total Revenues $ 12,253.1 $ 10,697.0 15 % $ 9,893.0 8 % The discussion following includes disclosure of pre tax income for our operating segments. We have reported pre tax income for each of our operating segments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. As discussed in Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, certain corporate costs are not included in pre tax income of our operating segments. For EMEA, our largest international region, changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for 16 percentage points of the reported increase in revenues in fiscal 2004. The remaining increase over the prior year was primarily driven by NIKE owned retail (due to the addition of new stores in fiscal 2004) and increased footwear volume (led by soccer product). Excluding the impact of currency exchange movements, sales in each EMEA business unit (footwear, apparel, equipment) grew versus fiscal 2003. After several years in which the regions revenues grew substantially faster than the overall market in Europe, fiscal 2004 revenue growth for EMEA was more in line with the growth of the overall market. Futures orders for the region scheduled for delivery from June through November 2004 were 9 percentage points higher than such orders received for the comparable period of fiscal 2003; changes in currency exchange rates accounted for about 3 percentage points of this growth. An increase in the regions footwear average price per pair contributed to this futures order growth. 18 Table of Contents EMEA pre tax income for fiscal 2004 was $750.7 million, up 41% versus the prior year. Higher revenues and gross margin improvements drove the increase, more than offsetting incremental selling and administrative costs. The improved gross margins were primarily the result of improved year over year hedge rates and higher in line and closeout pricing margins. In the Asia Pacific Region, fiscal 2004 revenues increased 20% year over year. Eight percentage points of growth for the fiscal year were due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of currency exchange movements, sales in each Asia Pacific business unit grew versus fiscal 2003. The regions revenue growth was primarily due to unit volume increases, with significant revenue growth in China (driven by expansion of retail distribution and strong consumer demand) and Japan (driven by strong consumer demand). Pre tax income for the Asia Pacific Region increased to $354.9 million in fiscal 2004, up 21% versus fiscal 2003. Higher revenues and gross margin improvements drove the increase, more than offsetting incremental selling and administrative costs. The higher gross margins were primarily attributable to higher in line pricing margins and the benefit of better hedge rates on product purchases, partially offset by lower profitability of closeouts. In the Americas Region, revenues increased 19% compared to fiscal 2003, with 8 percentage points of the growth due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the currency effects, the revenue growth was driven primarily by stronger consumer demand in South America and sales in each Americas business unit grew versus fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2004, pre tax income for the Americas Region increased 6% from the prior year, to $101.9 million. The increase in pre tax income was attributable to changes in currency exchange rates slightly offset by reduced gross margins and higher selling and administrative costs. Gross margins fell due to lower in line pricing margins as well as weaker currency exchange rates in Mexico. In the U.S. Region, revenues for fiscal 2004 grew 3% versus fiscal 2003, as revenues increased in each business unit. The increase in apparel sales was primarily driven by growth in sport performance product and increased consumer demand for team licensed apparel primarily in the first half of fiscal 2004. The increase in footwear revenue was due to an increase in average wholesale selling price per pair and increased sales in NIKE owned retail stores, partially offset by a slight decline in wholesale unit sales. The increase in average wholesale selling price per pair was partially due to a larger percentage of sales of products with a suggested retail price over $100. The slight decline in U.S. footwear wholesale unit sales was largely due to changes in distribution to several retail customers. For the first half of the year, sales to our largest customer, Foot Locker, were lower as a result of changes to our distribution strategy implemented in fiscal 2002 and 2003; while the decline in first half sales resulted in slightly lower sales for the full year, our year over year sales to Foot Locker grew in the second half of fiscal 2004. In addition, fiscal 2004 sales declined for another large customer, Footstar, which declared bankruptcy in March 2004. The sales declines for Foot Locker and Footstar were partially offset by increased sales to other accounts. For the U.S. Region, futures orders scheduled for delivery from June through November 2004 increased 11 percentage points versus the prior year. Higher orders from Foot Locker were a factor in this increase. During our fiscal fourth quarter, Foot Locker acquired additional stores from Footstar. Further, as announced in November 2003 additional premium product offerings were made available to select Foot Locker locations beginning with the Fall 2004 season. Growth in futures orders from Foot Locker as compared to the prior years orders from Foot Locker and Footstar combined, contributed 3 percentage points of the overall regions futures orders growth. Additionally, futures orders grew as a result of increases in average wholesale selling price per pair for footwear, due to increased orders for products with a suggested retail price over $100. 19 Table of Contents For fiscal 2004, pre tax income for the U.S. Region was $1,015.1 million, a 5% increase versus fiscal 2003. Higher revenues and gross margins drove the increase, more than offsetting higher selling and administrative costs. The improved gross margins were primarily the result of higher in line and closeout pricing margins and expanded retail margins. The Other segment includes results from Bauer NIKE Hockey Inc., Cole Haan Holdings Incorporated, Converse Inc., Hurley International LLC and NIKE Golf. Revenues for Other grew 51% in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003; the addition of Converse contributed 24 percentage points of the increase. The remainder of the increase was due to revenue growth at NIKE Golf, Cole Haan, Hurley and Bauer NIKE Hockey. Pre tax income for Other improved to $75.3 million in fiscal 2004, versus income of $5.2 million in fiscal 2003. The addition of Converse, combined with improved results from NIKE Golf and Cole Haan, drove the year over year improvement. Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002 Consolidated Operating Results Revenue growth in our international regions drove the 8% increase in consolidated revenues in fiscal 2003 as compared to fiscal 2002. Changes in currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, contributed 4 percentage points of the consolidated revenue growth. In fiscal 2003, our consolidated gross margin percentage improved 170 basis points as compared to fiscal 2002, from 39.3% to 41.0%. Significant factors contributing to the improved gross margin percentage were as follows: (1) Product cost reductions resulting from our global initiatives to improve efficiency and reduce materials costs; and (2) A higher mix of sales of classic footwear models which are generally more profitable than our more complex performance models. Lower pricing of NIKE Golf products as a result of market conditions discussed below partially offset these positive margin drivers. Changes in currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on our gross margin percentage in fiscal 2003 as the benefit of stronger hedge rates in some currencies was offset by weaker hedge rates in other currencies. Selling and administrative expense increased as a percentage of revenues from 28.7% in fiscal 2002 to 29.5% in fiscal 2003. Both demand creation and operating overhead expense increased as a percentage of revenues. Demand creation expense grew from $1,027.9 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,166.8 million in fiscal 2003. Higher costs incurred in the EMEA Region drove the growth in demand creation expense, reflecting, 1) a stronger euro currency exchange rate compared to the U.S. dollar, which resulted in higher U.S. dollar expenses for costs that are euro denominated, 2) our new endorsement agreement with the Manchester United soccer team that became effective in August 2002, and 3) costs of our World Cup marketing campaign incurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. Higher demand creation expenses were also incurred in the Asia Pacific and Americas regions due to the World Cup marketing campaign. We also increased demand creation spending in the U.S. in order to drive continued consumer demand for footwear while we realigned our distribution to retail customers. Operating overhead increased from $1,807.9 million in fiscal 2002 to $1,987.3 million in fiscal 2003. Major drivers of this increase were the stronger euro exchange rate, incremental costs related to our on going development of systems and processes supporting our worldwide supply chain, (primarily reflected in the corporate line in our segment presentation of pre tax income in Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information), investments in headcount for our NIKE Golf business, the addition of Hurley overhead costs beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, and overhead costs of additional retail stores in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions. 20 Table of Contents Interest expense, net, decreased from $34.0 million in fiscal 2002 to $28.8 million in fiscal 2003, a decline of 15%. The decrease reflected both lower interest rates and lower average debt levels, as we have used cash flow from operations to reduce total debt. Other expense, net was $77.5 million in fiscal 2003 compared to $1.2 million in fiscal 2002. Significant amounts included in other expense, net were goodwill amortization (fiscal 2002 only), and certain foreign currency gains and losses. An increase in net foreign currency losses was the largest contributor to the increase in other expense, net for fiscal 2003 versus fiscal 2002. These foreign currency losses were primarily due to hedge losses on intercompany charges to a European subsidiary, whose functional currency is the euro. These losses are reflected in the Corporate line in our segment presentation of pre tax income in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information). The hedge losses reflected that the euro had strengthened considerably since we entered into these hedge contracts. In fiscal 2003, net foreign currency losses in other expense, net were more than offset by favorable translation of foreign currency denominated profits. Our estimate of the net impact of these losses and the favorable translation was a $13 million addition to consolidated income before income taxes. Our fiscal 2003 effective tax rate was 34.1%, relatively consistent with the fiscal 2002 effective rate of 34.3%. Included in fiscal 2003 net income was a $266.1 million charge for the cumulative effect of implementing FAS 142. This charge related to the impairment of goodwill and trademarks associated with Bauer NIKE Hockey and the goodwill of Cole Haan, reflecting that the fair values we estimated for these assets were less than the carrying values. In addition, the adoption of this accounting standard resulted in a reduction to goodwill and intangible asset amortization of $13.1 million as compared to fiscal 2002. See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 4 Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill) for further information. Operating Segments Our largest international region, EMEA, reported 20% revenue growth in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002. This growth reflected a 15 percentage point improvement due to changes in currency exchange rates. Growth in the emerging markets in Central and Eastern Europe was the key driver of the balance of the increase, as our distribution continued to expand in these markets and customer demand increased. Excluding the effect from changes in currency exchange rates, each of our EMEA business units delivered revenue growth versus the prior year. EMEA pre tax income grew from $422.4 million in fiscal 2002 to $532.0 million in fiscal 2003. Higher revenues and improved gross margins drove the increase, more than offsetting incremental selling and administrative costs. In Asia Pacific, revenues increased 19% in fiscal 2003; five percentage points of this growth were due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the benefit from changes in currency exchange rates, sales in each Asia Pacific business unit grew in fiscal 2003, as did sales in almost every country of the region, particularly Japan and Korea, driven primarily by heightened consumer demand for our products following the 2002 World Cup and our related marketing campaign, and China, driven primarily by an expansion of retail distribution of our products. Pre tax income for the Asia Pacific Region increased from $216.2 million in fiscal 2002 to $292.6 million in fiscal 2003. This increase reflected higher revenues and improved gross margins that more than offset higher selling and administrative costs. In the Americas Region, fiscal 2003 revenues decreased 7% compared to fiscal 2002, reflecting higher sales in local currencies that were more than offset by a 15 percentage point decline due to changes in currency exchange rates. This currency exchange impact was due to weaker currencies in the Latin American markets, partially offset by the stronger Canadian dollar. Excluding the currency exchange rate impact, the region 21 Table of Contents experienced sales growth in the footwear and equipment business units slightly offset by a small percentage decrease in the apparel business unit. On a geographic basis, excluding currency exchange rate impacts, the region experienced sales growth in Brazil, Argentina, and Mexico, reflecting stronger consumer demand. The sales growth in Argentina reflected a rebound since fiscal 2002 when that country underwent an economic crisis. Pre tax income for the Americas Region grew from $92.1 million in fiscal 2002 to $96.5 million in fiscal 2003. Pre tax income improved despite lower reported revenues primarily due to an improved gross margin percentage. In the U.S. Region, revenues were down slightly in fiscal 2003, at $4,658.4 million versus $4,669.6 million in fiscal 2002. U.S. footwear revenues were down 4%, more than offsetting sales growth in U.S. apparel and equipment. U.S. apparel sales increased $95.3 million, primarily driven by increased consumer demand for team licensed apparel. Lower revenues in the footwear business unit were largely the result of a significant change in our U.S. footwear distribution. During fiscal 2003, we began a realignment of our U.S. footwear distribution to address the changing retail marketplace, including our largest customers (Foot Locker) reduction in emphasis on premium footwear in its offerings. The objectives of this realignment were to improve the presentation and profitability of the NIKE brand in the U.S. As a result of changes in both Foot Lockers orders and our product offerings to this account, our fiscal 2003 sales to Foot Locker in the U.S. were significantly below the level of fiscal 2002. At the same time, we expanded the premium products available to other athletic specialty and independent retailers that focus on premium footwear offerings, increasing sales to these accounts significantly. Our unit sales of footwear in the U.S. increased slightly as compared to fiscal 2002. However, this volume increase was more than offset by a decline in the average price per pair of footwear sold. The reduction in average price per pair in fiscal 2003 versus fiscal 2002 reflected a higher percentage of sales of classic footwear and kids models, which have a lower average price than our more complex adult performance models. U.S. Region pre tax income increased from $956.0 million in fiscal 2002 to $963.2 million in fiscal 2003. Pre tax income improved, despite lower revenues and higher selling and administrative expense, due to improved gross margins. Revenues for Other grew 12% in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002. The addition of revenues from our Hurley business, purchased in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, drove the increase in Other revenues. Pre tax income for Other declined from $43.7 million in fiscal 2002 to $5.2 million in fiscal 2003. Reduced profitability at NIKE Golf drove this decline, reflecting significantly weaker demand in the U.S. golf market versus fiscal 2002 and start up issues we experienced at a third party distribution facility. Liquidity and Capital Resources Fiscal 2004 Cash Flow Activity Cash provided by operations was $1.5 billion in fiscal 2004, compared to $922.0 million in fiscal 2003. Our primary source of operating cash flow was net income of $945.6 million. In addition to the improvement in net income, the increase in cash compared to the prior year was attributable to changes in our investment in working capital primarily driven by accounts receivable and accounts payable (excluding the acquisition of Converse and the effects of foreign currency, which were reported separately). In fiscal 2004 accounts receivable provided cash to the Company due to improved account management through better utilization of supply chain systems, especially in EMEA. Accounts payable provided cash to the Company due to the timing of inventory receipts and vendor payments. The changes in other working capital components were consistent with normal business operations. Cash used by investing activities during fiscal 2004 was $946.5 million, compared to $215.6 million invested during fiscal 2003. The most significant uses of cash for investing activities in fiscal 2004 were the 22 Table of Contents purchase of short term investments and the acquisition of Converse, which accounted for $400.8 million and $289.1 million, respectively. The remaining investing activities are consistent with the prior year and primarily reflect capital expenditures on computer equipment and software to support both normal business operations as well as our supply chain systems upgrade, continued investment in NIKE owned retail stores, and construction of a storage facility in Japan, which was completed in fiscal 2004. Cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2004 was $398.5 million, down from $606.5 million in the prior year. In fiscal 2004, the principal uses of cash for financing activities were share repurchases, payments of long term debt, and dividends, offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options and debt issuance. Net cash used by financing activities was higher in fiscal 2003 primarily due to increased repayments of short term debt in that period. The share repurchases were part of a $1.0 billion share repurchase program that began in fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2004, we repurchased 6.4 million shares of NIKEs Class B common stock for $414.3 million, completing the program. Over the course of the four year program, we purchased a total of 18.7 million shares of NIKEs Class B common stock. In June 2004, the Board of Directors approved a new $1.5 billion share repurchase program to be completed over the next four years. We expect to continue to fund the new program from operating cash flow. The timing and the ultimate amount of shares purchased under the program will be dictated by our capital needs and stock market conditions. Dividends declared per share of common stock for fiscal 2004 were $0.74, compared to $0.54 in fiscal 2003. We have paid a dividend every quarter since February 1984. We review our dividend policy from time to time, and based upon current projected earnings and cash flow requirements we anticipate continuing to pay a quarterly dividend in the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations Our significant long term contractual obligations as of May 31, 2004 are as follows: Cash Payments Due During the Year Ended May 31, Description of Commitment 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total (In millions) Operating Leases $ 171.7 $ 143.4 $ 120.9 $ 103.4 $ 85.3 $ 523.5 $ 1,148.2 Long term Debt 6.6 6.1 255.8 31.1 6.1 380.0 685.7 Endorsement Contracts1 355.5 322.7 323.1 208.6 128.4 375.2 1,713.5 Product Purchase Obligations2 1,648.9 1,648.9 Other3 260.5 19.8 8.2 5.9 3.9 1.3 299.6 Total $ 2,443.2 $ 492.0 $ 708.0 $ 349.0 $ 223.7 $ 1,280.0 $ 5,495.9 1 The amounts listed for endorsement contracts represent approximate amounts of base compensation and minimum guaranteed royalty fees we are obligated to pay athlete and sport team endorsers of our products. Actual payments under some contracts may be higher than the amounts listed as these contracts provide for bonuses to be paid to the endorsers based upon athletic achievements and or royalties on product sales in future periods. Actual payments under some contracts may also be lower as a limited number of contracts include provisions for reduced payments if athletic performance declines in future periods. In addition to the cash payments, we are obligated to furnish the endorsers with NIKE products for their use. It is not possible to determine how much we will spend on this product on an annual basis as the contracts do not stipulate a specific amount of cash to be spent on the product. The amount of product provided to the endorsers will depend on many factors including general playing conditions, the number of sporting events in which they participate, and our own decisions regarding product and marketing initiatives. In addition, the costs to design, develop, source, and purchase the products furnished to the endorsers are incurred over a period of time and are not necessarily tracked separately from similar costs incurred for products sold to customers. 23 Table of Contents 2 We generally order product four to five months in advance of sale based primarily on advanced futures orders received from customers. The amounts listed for product purchase obligations represent agreements (including open purchase orders) to purchase products in the ordinary course of business that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. The reported amounts exclude product purchase liabilities included in accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 3 Other amounts primarily include service and marketing commitments made in the ordinary course of business. The amounts represent the minimum payments required by legally binding contracts and agreements, including open purchase orders for non product purchases. The reported amounts exclude those liabilities included in accounts payable or accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Excluded from the table above is a commitment to an outsourcing contractor that provides us with information technology operations management services through 2006. The amount of the payments in future years depends on our level of monthly use of the different elements of the contractors services. If we were to terminate the entire contract as of May 31, 2004, we would be required to provide the contractor with four months notice and pay a termination fee of $18.7 million. Our monthly payments to the contractor currently approximate $6 million. We also have the following outstanding short term debt obligations as of May 31, 2004. Please refer to the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 6 Short term Borrowings and Credit Lines) for further description and interest rates related to the short term debt obligations listed below. Outstanding as ofMay 31, 2004 (In millions) Notes payable, due at mutually agreed upon dates, generally ninety days from issuance or on demand $ 146.0 Payable to Sojitz Corporation of America (Sojitz America) for the purchase of inventories, generally due sixty days after shipment of goods from a foreign port $ 43.9 As of May 31, 2004, letters of credit of $551.6 million were outstanding, primarily for the purchase of inventory. All letters of credit generally expire within one year. Capital Resources In October 2001, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under which $1 billion in debt securities may be issued. In May 2002, we commenced a medium term note program under the shelf registration that allows us to issue up to $500 million in medium term notes, as our capital needs dictate. We entered into this program to provide additional liquidity to meet our working capital and general corporate cash requirements. During fiscal 2004, we issued five notes under the medium term note program totaling $150 million. Four of those notes totaling $100 million have fixed coupon interest rates of 5.15% and mature on October 15, 2015. The other $50 million note has a fixed coupon interest rate of 4.70% and matures on October 1, 2013. For each of the notes, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the notes and pay variable interest payments based on the three month or six month London Inter Bank Offering Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread. The swaps have the same notional amounts and maturity dates as the notes, and are accounted for as fair value hedges under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (FAS 133), except for the swap for the $50 million note maturing October 1, 2013. The swap for that note has the same notional amount and fixed coupon interest rate as the note, but expires October 2, 2006. Accordingly, the swap does not qualify for fair value hedge accounting, so changes in the fair value of this swap are recorded in net income each period as a component of other expense, net. After issuance of these notes, $760 million remains available to be issued under the shelf registration. We may issue additional notes under the shelf registration in fiscal 2005 depending on general corporate needs. 24 Table of Contents As of May 31, 2004, we had a 5 year $750 million revolving credit facility in place with a group of banks, and we currently have no amounts outstanding under the facility. The maturity date is November 20, 2008 and the facility can be extended for one additional year on the anniversary date. Based on our current long term senior unsecured debt ratings of A and A2 from Standard and Poors Corporation and Moodys Investor Services, respectively, the interest rate charged on any outstanding borrowings would be the prevailing LIBOR plus 0.22%. The facility fee is 0.08% of the total commitment. If our long term debt rating were to decline, the facility fee and interest rate under our committed credit facility would increase. Conversely, if our long term debt rating were to improve, the facility fee and interest rate would decrease. Changes in our long term debt rating would not trigger acceleration of maturity of any then outstanding borrowings or any future borrowings under the committed credit facilities. Under this committed credit facility, we have agreed to various covenants. These covenants include limits on our disposal of fixed assets and the amount of debt secured by liens we may incur, and set a minimum capitalization ratio. In the event we were to have any borrowings outstanding under this facility, failed to meet any covenant, and were unable to obtain a waiver from a majority of the banks, any borrowings would become immediately due and payable. As of May 31, 2004, we were in full compliance with each of these covenants and believe it is unlikely we will fail to meet any of these covenants in the foreseeable future. Liquidity is also provided by our commercial paper program, under which there was no amount outstanding at May 31, 2004 or May 31, 2003. We currently have short term debt ratings of A1 and P1 from Standard and Poors Corporation and Moodys Investor Services, respectively. We currently believe that cash generated by operations, together with access to external sources of funds as described above, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs in the foreseeable future. Critical Accounting Policies Our previous discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described below have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these matters, actual results could differ from the estimates we use in applying the critical accounting policies. Certain of these critical accounting policies affect working capital account balances, including the policies for revenue recognition, the reserve for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory reserves, and contingent payments under endorsement contracts. These policies require that we make estimates in the preparation of our financial statements as of a given date. However, since our business cycle is relatively short, actual results related to these estimates are generally known within the six month period following the financial statement date. Thus, these policies generally affect only the timing of reported amounts across two to three quarters. Within the context of these critical accounting policies, we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would result in materially different amounts being reported. Revenue Recognition We record wholesale revenues when title passes and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer, based on the terms of sale. Title passes generally upon shipment or upon receipt by the customer depending on the country of the sale and the agreement with the customer. Retail store revenues are recorded at the time of sale. 25 Table of Contents In some instances, we ship product directly from our supplier to the customer and recognize revenue when the product is delivered to and accepted by the customer. Our revenues may fluctuate in cases when our customers delay accepting shipment of product for periods up to several weeks. In certain countries outside of the U.S., precise information regarding the date of receipt by the customer is not readily available. In these cases, we estimate the date of receipt by the customer based upon historical delivery times by geographic location. On the basis of our tests of actual transactions, we have no indication that these estimates have been materially inaccurate historically. As part of our revenue recognition policy, we record estimated sales returns and miscellaneous claims from customers as reductions to revenues at the time revenues are recorded. We base our estimates on historical rates of product returns and claims, and specific identification of outstanding claims and outstanding returns not yet received from customers. Actual returns and claims in any future period are inherently uncertain and thus may differ from our estimates. If actual or expected future returns and claims were significantly greater or lower than the reserves we had established, we would record a reduction or increase to net revenues in the period in which we made such determination. Reserve for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable We make ongoing estimates relating to the collectibility of our accounts receivable and maintain a reserve for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In determining the amount of the reserve, we consider our historical level of credit losses and make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. Since we cannot predict future changes in the financial stability of our customers, actual future losses from uncollectible accounts may differ from our estimates. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, a larger reserve might be required. In the event we determined that a smaller or larger reserve was appropriate, we would record a credit or a charge to selling and administrative expense in the period in which we made such a determination. Inventory Reserves We also make ongoing estimates relating to the net realizable value of inventories, based upon our assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If we estimate that the net realizable value of our inventory is less than the cost of the inventory recorded on our books, we record a reserve equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated net realizable value. This reserve is recorded as a charge to cost of sales. If changes in market conditions result in reductions in the estimated net realizable value of our inventory below our previous estimate, we would increase our reserve in the period in which we made such a determination and record a charge to cost of sales. Contingent Payments under Endorsement Contracts A significant portion of our demand creation expense relates to payments under endorsement contracts. In general, endorsement payments are expensed uniformly over the term of the contract. However, certain contract elements may be accounted for differently, based upon the facts and circumstances of each individual contract. Some of the contracts provide for contingent payments to endorsers based upon specific achievements in their sports (e.g., winning a championship). We record selling and administrative expense for these amounts when the endorser achieves the specific goal. Some of the contracts provide for payments based upon endorsers maintaining a level of performance in their sport over an extended period of time (e.g., maintaining a top ranking in a sport for a year). These amounts are reported in selling and administrative expense when we determine that it is probable that the specified level of performance will be maintained throughout the period. In these instances, to the extent that actual payments to the endorser differ from our estimate due to changes in the endorsers athletic performance, increased or decreased selling and administrative expense may be reported in a future period. 26 Table of Contents Some of the contracts provide for royalty payments to endorsers based upon a predetermined percentage of sales of particular products. We expense these payments in cost of sales as the related sales are made. In certain contracts, we offer minimum guaranteed royalty payments. For contractual obligations for which we estimate that we will not meet the minimum guaranteed amount of royalty fees through sales of product, we record the amount of the guaranteed payment in excess of that earned through sales of product in selling and administrative expense uniformly over the remaining guarantee period. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment, including buildings, equipment, and computer hardware and software is recorded at cost (including, in some cases, the cost of internal labor) and is depreciated over its estimated useful life. Changes in circumstances (such as technological advances or changes to our business operations) can result in differences between the actual and estimated useful lives. In those cases where we determine that the useful life of a long lived asset should be shortened, we increase depreciation expense over the remaining useful life to depreciate the assets net book value to its salvage value. When events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment may be impaired, we estimate the future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset to determine whether or not a potential impairment exists. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows, we then calculate the impairment as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over our estimate of its fair market value. Any impairment charges are recorded as other expense, net. We estimate future undiscounted cash flows using assumptions about our expected future operating performance. Our estimates of undiscounted cash flows may change in future periods due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to our business operations or inability to meet business plans. Such changes may result in impairment charges in the period in which such changes in estimates are made. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We adopted FAS 142 effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2003. In accordance with FAS 142, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized but instead measured for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, or when events indicate that an impairment exists. As required by FAS 142, in our impairment tests for goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets, we compare the estimated fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets to the carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of fair value, we calculate impairment as the excess of the carrying value over our estimate of fair value. Our estimates of fair value utilized in goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible asset tests may be based upon a number of factors, including our assumptions about the expected future operating performance of our reporting units. Our estimates may change in future periods due to, among other things, technological change, economic conditions, changes to our business operations or inability to meet business plans. Such changes may result in impairment charges recorded in future periods. As discussed further above, upon adoption of FAS 142 in fiscal 2003, we recorded an impairment charge related to goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets of $266.1 million. This charge is shown on our consolidated statement of income as the cumulative effect of accounting change. Post the first quarter of fiscal 2003, any goodwill impairment charges would be classified as a separate line item on our consolidated statement of income as part of income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change. Other indefinite lived intangible asset impairment charges would be classified as other expense, net. Intangible assets that are determined to have definite lives are amortized over their useful lives and are measured for impairment only when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired. In these cases, we estimate the future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset to determine whether or not a potential impairment exists. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows, we then calculate the impairment as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over our estimate of its fair value. Any impairment charges would be classified as other expense, net. 27 Table of Contents Hedge Accounting for Derivatives We use forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge certain anticipated foreign currency exchange transactions, as well as any resulting receivable or payable balance. When specific criteria required by FAS 133 have been met, changes in fair values of hedge contracts relating to anticipated transactions are recorded in other comprehensive income rather than net income until the underlying hedged transaction affects net income. In most cases, this results in gains and losses on hedge derivatives being released from other comprehensive income into net income some time after the maturity of the derivative. One of the criteria for this accounting treatment is that the forward exchange contract amount should not be in excess of specifically identified anticipated transactions. By their very nature, our estimates of anticipated transactions may fluctuate over time and may ultimately vary from actual transactions. When anticipated transaction estimates or actual transaction amounts decrease below hedged levels, or when the timing of transactions changes significantly, we are required to reclassify at least a portion of the cumulative changes in fair values of the related hedge contracts from other comprehensive income to other expense, net during the quarter in which such changes occur. Once an anticipated transaction estimate or actual transaction amount decreases below hedged levels, we make adjustments to the related hedge contract in order to reduce the amount of the hedge contract to that of the revised anticipated transaction. Taxes We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the year such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have declared as indefinitely reinvested offshore, thus reducing our overall income tax expense. The amount of earnings designated as indefinitely reinvested offshore is based upon the actual deployment of such earnings in our offshore assets and our expectations of the future cash needs of our U.S. and foreign entities. Income tax considerations are also a factor in determining the amount of foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. We carefully review all factors that drive the ultimate disposition of foreign earnings declared as reinvested offshore, and apply stringent standards to overcoming the presumption of repatriation. Despite this approach, because the determination involves our future plans and expectations of future events, the possibility exists that amounts declared as indefinitely reinvested offshore may ultimately be repatriated. For instance, the actual cash needs of our U.S. entities may exceed our current expectations, or the actual cash needs of our foreign entities may be less than our current expectations. This would result in additional income tax expense in the year we determined that amounts were no longer indefinitely reinvested offshore. Conversely, our approach may also result in accumulated foreign earnings (for which U.S. income taxes have been provided) being determined in the future to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. In this case, our income tax expense would be reduced in the year of such determination. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year and record a quarterly income tax provision in accordance with the anticipated annual rate. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate. 28 Table of Contents Other Contingencies In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in legal proceedings regarding contractual and employment relationships, product liability claims, trademark rights, and a variety of other matters. We record contingent liabilities resulting from claims against us, including related legal costs, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. We disclose contingent liabilities when there is a reasonable possibility that the ultimate loss will materially exceed the recorded liability. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple factors, in some cases including judgments about the potential actions of third party claimants and courts. Therefore, actual losses in any future period are inherently uncertain. Currently, we do not believe that any of our pending legal proceedings or claims will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. However, if actual or estimated probable future losses exceed our recorded liability for such claims, we would record additional charges as other expense, net during the period in which the actual loss or change in estimate occurred. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk In the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. It is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. We are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. Our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. We use forward exchange contracts, options and cross currency swaps to hedge certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party or intercompany transactions. When we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. Generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months, although at May 31, 2004 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 18 months. The majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by our European and Japanese subsidiaries. We use forward contracts and cross currency swaps to hedge foreign currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. When intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. Hedged transactions are principally denominated in European currencies, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars, Korean won, Mexican pesos and Australian dollars. Our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long term market interest rates. Our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, and bank loans and have entered into interest rate swaps under which we receive fixed interest and pay variable interest. Market Risk Measurement We monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and Value at Risk (VaR). Our market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the SEC, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debt. We use VaR to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. The VaR determines the maximum potential one day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate sensitive financial instruments. The VaR model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. There are various modeling techniques that can be used in the VaR 29 Table of Contents computation. Our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/co variance technique). These interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year. The value of foreign currency options does not change on a one to one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. We adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma) to changes in the underlying currency rate. This calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and hence does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on the underlying based transactions that are anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances and accounts and loans receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies, including those which are hedged by these instruments. The VaR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. It also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. Actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. The estimated maximum one day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the VaR model, was $24.9 million and $21.0 million at May 31, 2004 and May 31, 2003, respectively. The increase in VaR as of May 31, 2004 occurred due to the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the May 31, 2004 VaR computation versus the effect of currency volatility on existing trades on the May 31, 2003 VaR computation. Such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. The average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $50.0 million and $43.3 million for fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, respectively. Details of other market sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the VaR calculation above are provided in the table below, except the interest rate swaps which are described below. These instruments include intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies, fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Expected Maturity Date Year Ended May 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total Fair Value (In millions, except interest rates) Foreign Exchange Risk Euro Functional Currency Intercompany loan U.S. dollar denominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 270.4 $ 270.4 $ 270.4 Average interest rate 2.4 % 2.4 % Intercompany loan British pound denominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 68.8 $ 68.8 $ 68.8 Average interest rate 4.8 % 4.8 % U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Intercompany loan Japanese yen denominated Variable rate Principal payments $ 207.7 $ 207.7 $ 207.7 Average interest rate 0.3 % 0.3 % Intercompany loan Canadian dollar denominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 25.8 $ 25.8 $ 25.8 Average interest rate 2.3 % 2.3 % Japanese Yen Functional Currency Long term Japanese yen debt Fixed rate 30 Table of Contents Expected Maturity Date Year Ended May 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total Fair Value (In millions, except interest rates) Principal payments $ 5.9 5.9 5.9 5.9 5.9 161.3 $ 190.8 $ 215.4 Average interest rate 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 2.5 % 2.9 % Interest Rate Risk Japanese Yen Functional Currency Long term Japanese yen debt Fixed rate Principal payments $ 5.9 5.9 5.9 5.9 5.9 161.3 $ 190.8 $ 215.4 Average interest rate 3.3 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 2.5 % 2.9 % U.S. Dollar Functional CurrencyLong term U.S. dollar debt Fixed rate Principal payments $ 250.0 25.0 215.0 $ 490.0 $ 502.6 Average interest rate 5.3 % 5.3 % 5.2 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.2 % Intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. Intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts and swaps with third parties. The fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by two of our Japanese subsidiaries. Accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss upon the consolidation of these subsidiaries. There were no significant changes in debt or cross currency swap market risks during fiscal 2004. Cross currency swaps outstanding as of May 31, 2003 matured in fiscal 2004 and no new cross currency swaps were executed during fiscal 2004. The U.S. dollar fair values of intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies was $711.8 million at May 31, 2003, which is the same as the carrying values of the loans prior to their elimination. The U.S. dollar fair value of the fixed rate Japanese yen denominated debt that was outstanding at May 31, 2003 was $234.5 million versus a carrying value of $190.1 million at that date. The U.S. dollar fair values of the fixed rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, the euro swap payable and the U.S. dollar swap receivable as of May 31, 2003 were $582.2 million, $193.5 million and $211.6 million, respectively, versus carrying values of $540.0 million, $186.0 million and $200.0 million, respectively, at that date. In fiscal 2002 we issued a $250 million long term fixed rate corporate bond which matures in August 2006. In fiscal 2003 and 2004, we issued an additional $240 million in long term fixed rate corporate bonds which mature on various dates beginning in July 2007 through October 2015. Fixed interest rates on these bonds range from 4.7% to 5.66%. For each of the bonds issued in fiscal 2002, 2003 and fiscal 2004, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the bonds and pay variable interest payments based on the three month or six month LIBOR plus a spread. Each swap has the same notional amount and maturity date as the corresponding bond, except for one swap for a $50 million bond issued in fiscal 2004 maturing in October 2013. That swap expires in October 2006. As a result of the interest rate swap agreements, the average effective interest rate payable on these bonds was 2.4% at May 31, 2004 and 2.5% at May 31, 2003. These interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges, so changes in the recorded fair values of the swaps are offset by changes in the recorded fair value of the related debt, except for the $50 million swap expiring in October 2006 which is not accounted for as a hedge. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this swap are recorded to net income each period. The recorded fair value of the interest rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges was a net $3.3 million gain at May 31, 2004 and a $25.5 million gain at May 31, 2003. The fair value of the $50 million interest rate swap expiring October 2006 was a $0.6 million loss at May 31, 2004. In fiscal 2003 we also entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to a Japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our Japanese subsidiaries. The Japanese subsidiary pays variable interest on the intercompany loan based on 3 month LIBOR plus a spread. Under the interest rate swap agreement, the subsidiary pays fixed interest payments at 0.8% and receives variable interest payments based on 3 month LIBOR plus a spread based on a notional amount of 8 billion Japanese yen. This interest rate swap is not accounted for as a hedge, accordingly changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded to net income each period. The recorded fair value of the swap was a $0.4 million gain at May 31, 2004 and a $1.0 million loss at May 31, 2003. 31 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Analyst Reports Certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to NIKEs business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by NIKE or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements. The risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by NIKE with the SEC, including Forms 8 K, 10 Q, and 10 K, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for NIKE products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in consumer preferences, consumer demand for NIKE products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining NIKEs increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at once orders, currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, and the fact that a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders; the ability of NIKE to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of NIKEs products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against NIKE; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect NIKEs business and financial performance. Moreover, NIKE operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on NIKEs business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also be aware that while NIKE does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against NIKEs policy to disclose to them any material non public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that NIKE agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, NIKE has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of NIKE. 32 Table of Contents 
 
