Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview NIKE designs, develops and markets high quality footwear, apparel, equipment and accessory products worldwide. We are the largest seller of athletic footwear and athletic apparel in the world and sell our products primarily through a combination of retail accounts, NIKE owned retail stores, independent distributors and licensees, in the United States and over 160 countries worldwide. Our goal is to deliver value to our shareholders by building a profitable portfolio of global footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories brands. Our strategy for building this portfolio is focused in four key areas: Deepening our relationship with consumers; Delivering superior, innovative products to the marketplace; Making our supply chain a competitive advantage, through operational discipline and excellence; and Accelerating growth through focused execution. By executing this strategy, we aim to deliver the following long term financial goals: High single digit revenue growth; Mid teens earnings per share growth; Increased return on invested capital and accelerated cash flows; and Consistent results through effective management of our diversified portfolio of businesses. 14 Table of Contents In fiscal 2005 we met or surpassed these financial goals. Our revenues grew 12% to $13.7 billion, net income grew 28% to $1.2 billion, and we delivered diluted earnings per share of $4.48, a 28% increase versus fiscal 2004. The impact of foreign currency changes has had a favorable impact on this years consolidated results of operations, primarily as a contributor to the growth in our gross margin percentage. For fiscal 2005, our consolidated gross margin percentage increased 160 basis points to 44.5%. Additionally, we have improved our return on invested capital, increased free cash flow from operations and continued to return cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Although in any particular quarter or fiscal year we may not meet all of the financial goals outlined above, we continue to believe these are appropriate long term goals. Results of Operations 2005 2004 % Change 2003 % Change Revenues $ 13,739.7 $ 12,253.1 12% $ 10,697.0 15% Cost of sales 7,624.3 7,001.4 9% 6,313.6 11% Gross margin 6,115.4 5,251.7 16% 4,383.4 20% Gross margin % 44.5 % 42.9 % 41.0 % Selling and administrative 4,221.7 3,702.0 14% 3,154.1 17% % of Revenues 30.7 % 30.2 % 29.5 % Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change 1,859.8 1,450.0 28% 1,123.0 29% Income before cumulative effect of accounting change 1,211.6 945.6 28% 740.1 28% Net income 1,211.6 945.6 28% 474.0 99% Diluted earnings per share before accounting change 4.48 3.51 28% 2.77 27% Diluted earnings per share 4.48 3.51 28% 1.77 98% Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 Consolidated Operating Results In fiscal 2005, consolidated revenues grew 12% versus fiscal 2004; three percentage points of this growth is attributed to changes in currency exchange rates, primarily the stronger euro. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency, revenue growth in our international regions contributed 4 percentage points to the consolidated revenue growth, as all three of our international regions posted higher revenues. The U.S. Region contributed 3 percentage points of the consolidated revenue growth for fiscal 2005. Sales in our Other businesses operating segment drove the remainder of the improvement of consolidated revenue growth for fiscal 2005. Converse, a component of the Other businesses, was acquired at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal 2004. The comparison of a full year of results in fiscal 2005 versus a partial year in fiscal 2004 contributed 1 percentage point to the consolidated revenue growth. See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 15 Acquisitions) for additional information related to the acquisition. During fiscal 2005, our consolidated gross margin percentage improved 160 basis points versus the prior year, from 42.9% to 44.5%. The primary factors contributing to the improved gross margin percentage for fiscal 2005 were as follows: (1) Higher gross margins in our international regions, driven primarily by our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Region, accounted for 90 basis points of the overall margin improvement in fiscal 2005. This improvement was driven by changes in currency hedge rates, primarily the euro, partially offset by lower in line pricing margins (net revenue for current product offerings minus product costs) and a higher percentage of less profitable closeout sales (non current 15 Table of Contents product offerings), the result of higher footwear and apparel closeout inventories in our EMEA and Asia Pacific regions (as discussed below): (a) Year over year hedge rate improvements contributed approximately 170 basis points to the fiscal 2005 consolidated gross margin percentage improvement. We have hedged the majority of product purchases for fiscal 2006 and a significant portion of those are at more favorable rates than product purchases in fiscal 2005. Based on these hedge rates, we expect hedge rates to have a positive impact on our gross margin percentage during fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005, with the greater impact occurring during the first half of the year. See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 16 Risk Management and Derivatives) for additional information on hedges. (b) Lower in line pricing margins in EMEA and Asia Pacific were due to strategies to improve product value in these regions. In addition, increased levels of closeout sales and lower closeout pricing, the result of the liquidation of higher footwear and apparel closeout inventories this year, reduced the overall gross margin percentage improvement in those regions. Together, these factors resulted in a reduction in the consolidated gross margin percentage of about 60 basis points for fiscal 2005. (2) Higher gross margins in the U.S. Region contributed approximately 30 basis points to the improvement in the consolidated gross margin percentage for fiscal 2005. Fewer, more profitable closeouts in footwear drove the improvement partially offset by increased sales discounts (the result of increased sales to high volume accounts) and higher product costs and air freight incurred to meet strong footwear demand. (3) Improved gross margin percentages in our Other businesses represented 30 basis points of improvement for fiscal 2005. The addition of Converse (acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2004) and Exeter Brands Group (formed in the first quarter of fiscal 2005) drove the gross margin percentage improvement. Both Exeter Brands Group and the international portion of Converses business operate on a licensing model, which carries higher gross margins and lower operating expenses than the remainder of our Other businesses. Fiscal 2005 selling and administrative expense, comprised of demand creation and operating overhead, grew 14% versus fiscal 2004. Three percentage points of the increase for fiscal 2005 were due to changes in currency exchange rates. The impact of a full fiscal year for Converse and the formation of Exeter Brands Group added one percentage point of growth. Demand creation (advertising and promotion) expense grew 16% to $1,600.7 million in fiscal 2005. Three percentage points of the increase in demand creation were due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency rates, the increase in demand creation spending for the fiscal year was attributable to higher spending on sports marketing endorsement contracts and events primarily in the U.S., EMEA and Asia Pacific regions (5 percentage points), higher advertising spending primarily in the EMEA Region (3 percentage points), and incremental investment in retail marketing in the U.S., EMEA and Asia Pacific regions (2 percentage points). The addition of Converse and formation of Exeter Brands Group contributed 2 percentage points of the demand creation increase for the year. Operating overhead for fiscal 2005 was $2,621.0 million, a 13% increase over fiscal 2004. Changes in currency exchange rates contributed 3 percentage points of the increase. Excluding the effects of foreign currency, operating overhead increases for fiscal 2005 were mainly attributable to higher personnel costs due to increased headcount, higher wages and benefits and increased incentive based compensation for employees (4 percentage points), investments in emerging markets (such as China, India and our Central Europe, Middle East and Africa unit) and our Other businesses (3 percentage points), increased costs due to sales and leadership events (2 percentage points) and investments in NIKE owned retail stores (1 percentage point). 16 Table of Contents The most significant component of other expense, net, of $29.1 million for fiscal 2005 was foreign currency hedge losses. These losses are reflected in the Corporate line in our segment presentation of pre tax income in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information). The hedge losses reflect that the euro has strengthened since we entered into these hedge contracts. In fiscal 2004, foreign currency hedge losses were also the most significant component of other expense, net, of $74.7 million. The year over year improvement in other expense, net, for fiscal 2005 was mainly due to lower foreign currency hedge losses and lower net losses on asset disposals compared to those recorded in fiscal 2004. In 2005, net foreign currency losses in other expense, net, were more than offset by favorable translation of foreign currency denominated profits, most significantly in EMEA. Our estimate of the combined impact of lower foreign currency conversion losses and the favorable translation of foreign currency denominated profits is a $95 million addition to consolidated income before income taxes compared to the prior year. If current exchange rates remain constant, we do not expect a significant impact on our consolidated income before income taxes related to foreign currency gains or losses and the offsetting translation for fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2005 was 34.9%, which is slightly higher than the fiscal 2004 rate of 34.8% primarily due to decreases in tax credits partially offset by lower taxes on foreign earnings in fiscal 2005. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 we decided to repatriate $500 million of foreign earnings during fiscal 2006 under the American Jobs Creation Act (the Act), which was signed into law by the President on October 22, 2004. The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. multinational corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned outside the U.S. by providing an 85% dividend received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. We elected to repatriate a combination of foreign earnings for which U.S. taxes had previously been provided and foreign earnings that had been designated as permanently reinvested. Accordingly, the provisions made did not have a material impact on our income tax expense or our effective tax rate for the year. Worldwide futures and advance orders for footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from June through November 2005 were 9.5% higher than such orders reported for the comparable period of fiscal 2004. Approximately 1 point of this reported increase was due to changes in currency exchange rates versus the same period last year. Excluding this currency impact, slightly higher average selling prices for both footwear and apparel contributed 1 point of the growth in overall futures and advance orders. The remaining increase was due to volume increases for both footwear and apparel. As always, the reported futures orders growth is not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenue growth during this period. This is because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at once orders. In addition, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations can cause differences in the comparisons between futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders, including wholesale sales of equipment, U.S. licensed team apparel, Bauer NIKE Hockey, Cole Haan, Converse, Exeter Brands Group, Hurley, NIKE Golf and retail sales across all brands. 17 Table of Contents Operating Segments The breakdown of revenues follows: FY05 vs. FY04 vs. FY04 FY03 Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2004* % CHG Fiscal 2003* % CHG (Dollars in millions) U.S. Region Footwear $ 3,358.2 $ 3,070.4 9 % $ 3,019.5 2 % Apparel 1,457.7 1,433.5 2 % 1,351.0 6 % Equipment 313.4 277.9 13 % 266.9 4 % Total U.S. 5,129.3 4,781.8 7 % 4,637.4 3 % EMEA Region Footwear 2,500.0 2,232.2 12 % 1,896.0 18 % Apparel 1,497.1 1,333.8 12 % 1,133.1 18 % Equipment 284.5 261.7 9 % 192.4 36 % Total EMEA 4,281.6 3,827.7 12 % 3,221.5 19 % Asia Pacific Region Footwear 962.9 855.3 13 % 730.6 17 % Apparel 755.5 612.3 23 % 497.8 23 % Equipment 178.9 143.2 25 % 112.2 28 % Total Asia Pacific 1,897.3 1,610.8 18 % 1,340.6 20 % Americas Region Footwear 478.6 408.2 17 % 334.8 22 % Apparel 169.1 159.5 6 % 143.2 11 % Equipment 48.1 36.8 31 % 31.1 18 % Total Americas 695.8 604.5 15 % 509.1 19 % 12,004.0 10,824.8 11 % 9,708.6 11 % Other 1,735.7 1,428.3 22 % 988.4 45 % Total Revenues $ 13,739.7 $ 12,253.1 12 % $ 10,697.0 15 % * Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year 2005 presentation. The discussion following includes disclosure of pre tax income for our operating segments. We have reported pre tax income for each of our operating segments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. As discussed in Note 17 Operating Segments and Related Information in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, certain corporate costs are not included in pre tax income of our operating segments. For EMEA, changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for 7 percentage points of the reported revenue growth in fiscal 2005. Excluding the effects of foreign currency, EMEA Region revenues grew 5 percent as each product business unit (footwear, apparel and equipment) experienced growth. The following analysis excludes the impact of changes in foreign currency. The increase over the prior year was primarily driven by increased unit sales of footwear, apparel and equipment partially offset by declines in the average prices in each of the business units. Although apparel and equipment business units experienced growth for fiscal 2005, revenues fell slightly in the fourth quarter primarily due to comparisons to very strong sales in the prior years fourth quarter related to the 2004 European Football Championships. For fiscal 2005, sales increases in the emerging markets in our Central Europe, Middle East and Africa unit, along with sales increases in the UK and Italy, drove the growth. These increases were partially offset by lower sales in France, Germany and Northern Europe. 18 Table of Contents For the EMEA Region, futures orders scheduled for delivery from June through November 2005 were 7 percentage points higher than such orders received for the comparable period of fiscal 2004. Changes in currency exchange rates contributed 2 percentage points of this growth. Excluding the changes in currency exchange rates, the growth was driven by an increase in the regions footwear and apparel unit orders and increases in apparels average price. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the regions footwear average price per pair, partially due to strategies to improve the product value. EMEA pre tax income for fiscal 2005 was $917.5 million, up 23% versus the prior year. Higher revenues and gross margin improvements drove the increase, more than offsetting increased selling and administrative costs. The improved gross margins, which contributed 90 basis points of growth to the consolidated gross margin percentage, were primarily the result of improved year over year hedge rates partially offset by reduced in line pricing margins and higher, less profitable closeout sales. In the Asia Pacific Region, 4 percentage points of reported revenue growth for the fiscal year were due to changes in currency exchange rates. The following analysis excludes the impact of changes in foreign currency. Sales in each Asia Pacific product business unit grew versus fiscal 2004 with the growth primarily due to unit volume; average price per unit increased slightly. Significant revenue increases in China (driven by expansion of retail distribution and strong consumer demand) and increases in every other country in the region except Australia and New Zealand were the key growth drivers for fiscal 2005. For the Asia Pacific Region, futures orders scheduled for delivery from June through November 2005 were 11 percentage points higher than such orders received for the comparable period of fiscal 2004. Changes in currency exchange rates contributed 2 percentage points of this growth. Excluding the changes in currency exchange rates, the growth was driven by an increase in the regions footwear and apparel unit orders. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the regions average selling price per unit for footwear and apparel. Pre tax income for the Asia Pacific Region increased 13% versus fiscal 2004 to $399.8 million. Higher revenues were partially offset by a lower gross margin percentage and increased selling and administrative costs. The reduced gross margin percentage, which had a minimal negative impact on the net overall consolidated gross margin percentage change, was primarily attributable to less profitable closeout sales and reduced in line pricing margins due to strategies to improve the product value, partially offset by better year over year currency hedge rates. In the Americas Region, 1 percentage point of the revenue growth for fiscal 2005 was due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency, sales in each Americas product business unit grew in fiscal 2005. The revenue growth was driven primarily by higher sales in Central and South America, partially offset by lower sales in Canada. In fiscal 2005, pre tax income for the Americas Region increased 21% from the prior year, to $117.6 million. The increase in pre tax income was attributable to higher revenues and an improved gross margin percentage, partially offset by higher selling and administrative costs. The improved gross margin percentage had a minimal impact on the consolidated gross margin percentage improvement. In the U.S. Region, revenues for fiscal 2005 grew 7% versus fiscal 2004, as revenues increased in each product business unit. The increase in footwear revenue was due to a 5 percentage point increase in unit sales and a 4 percentage point increase in the average price per pair. The increases in unit sales and the average price per pair are due to increased consumer demand for performance products, especially those with a suggested retail price over $100. The increase in apparel sales for fiscal 2005 was driven by volume increases in branded apparel, partially offset by a decline in revenue from sales of licensed apparel. The decline in revenue from licensed apparel was due to the expiration of our license agreement with the NBA, in the second quarter of fiscal 2005, and a shift in consumer preference towards branded apparel. For the first quarter and into the second quarter of fiscal 2006, we expect revenues generated by licensed apparel to be below the prior year levels due to the expiration of the agreement with the NBA. 19 Table of Contents For the U.S. Region, futures orders scheduled for delivery from June through November 2005 increased 9 percentage points versus the same period of the prior year. Futures orders increased due to unit growth for both footwear and apparel and higher average price per pair for footwear. As discussed above, these reported futures do not cover all components of our overall revenues, such as U.S. licensed apparel (expected to decrease as noted above), equipment, closeouts, at once orders and retail sales. As a result, revenue growth for the U.S. Region for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 is expected to be below the reported futures growth. For fiscal 2005, pre tax income for the U.S. Region was $1,125.8 million, a 12% increase versus fiscal 2004. Higher revenues and improved gross margin percentage drove the increase, more than offsetting higher selling and administrative costs. The improved gross margin percentage contributed 30 basis points of growth to the consolidated gross margin percentage growth and was primarily the result of fewer, more profitable closeouts partially offset by increased discounts and higher product costs and air freight incurred to meet strong footwear demand. Revenues and pre tax income for our Other businesses in fiscal 2005 include results from Bauer NIKE Hockey Inc., Cole Haan Holdings Incorporated, Converse Inc., Hurley International LLC, NIKE Golf and Exeter Brands Group LLC. Exeter Brands Group LLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of NIKE, Inc., formed in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 to develop the Companys business in retail channels serving value conscious consumers and to operate the business obtained in the acquisition of Official Starter Properties LLC and Official Starter LLC (collectively Official Starter). For fiscal 2005, the addition of Converse, acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2004, and the formation of Exeter Brands Group together drove 12 percentage points of the Other business revenue increase of 22% over fiscal 2004. The remainder of the increase was driven by revenue growth at Cole Haan, NIKE Golf and Hurley. Pre tax income from the Other businesses improved to $153.9 million in fiscal 2005, versus income of $75.3 million in fiscal 2004. The year over year improvement was driven by the addition of Converse, improved results from Cole Haan and Bauer and the formation of the Exeter Brands Group. Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003 Consolidated Operating Results In fiscal 2004, consolidated revenues grew 15% versus fiscal 2003; seven percentage points of this growth were due to changes in currency exchange rates, primarily the stronger euro. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency, revenue growth in our international regions contributed 3 percentage points to the consolidated revenue growth and all three of our international regions posted higher revenues, with our Asia Pacific Region making the largest contribution. Converse, which was acquired at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal 2004, contributed 2 percentage points of consolidated revenue growth. Improved sales in the U.S. Region and increases in our Other businesses drove the balance of the consolidated revenue growth. During fiscal 2004, our consolidated gross margin percentage improved 190 basis points versus the prior year, from 41.0% to 42.9%. The primary factors contributing to the improved gross margin percentage for fiscal 2004 were as follows: (1) Changes in hedge rates, primarily the euro, represented 70 basis points of improvement for fiscal 2004. The positive impact of hedge rates on the fiscal 2004 gross margin percentage was most significant in the fourth quarter, contributing 140 basis points of the year over year quarterly improvement. (2) Higher in line pricing margins drove approximately 70 basis points of the improvement in the consolidated gross margin percentage for fiscal 2004. This was primarily attributable to improved footwear margins as a result of lower product costs due to manufacturing efficiencies, reduced materials costs and lower air freight. (3) Improved profitability on wholesale closeout sales, primarily in the U.S. and EMEA regions due to improved closeout pricing margins, partially offset by increased obsolescence reserves due to a less favorable mix of product remaining in closeout inventory. These factors 20 Table of Contents represented approximately 10 basis points of the improvement in the consolidated gross margin percentage for fiscal 2004. (4) Most of the remaining increase was due to improved gross margin percentages for NIKE owned retail stores in the U.S. and EMEA regions, which contributed approximately 30 basis points of the improvement in consolidated gross margins for fiscal 2004. Fiscal 2004 selling and administrative expense grew 17% versus fiscal 2003. Demand creation expense grew 18% to $1,377.9 million in fiscal 2004. Seven percentage points of the increase in demand creation were due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency rates, the increase in demand creation spending for the fiscal year was attributable to higher spending on endorsement contracts in the U.S., primarily basketball (3 percentage point impact), incremental investment in retail marketing in the U.S., EMEA and Asia Pacific regions (3 percentage point impact), and higher advertising spending in the Asia Pacific region (1 percentage point impact). The addition of Converse contributed 2 percentage points of the demand creation increase for the year. Operating overhead for fiscal 2004 was $2,324.1 million, a 17% increase over fiscal 2003. Currency exchange rates contributed 5 percentage points of the increase. The addition of Converse accounted for 2 percentage points of growth. Other key factors driving the increase in operating overhead for the fiscal year were: (a) increased incentive based compensation for employees (3 percentage points); and (b) increased costs to support the growth of our NIKE Golf, Cole Haan, Bauer NIKE Hockey and Hurley businesses (2 percentage points). The remaining increase, about 5 percentage points, is primarily attributable to normal wage increases and some added infrastructure necessary to support global business growth, including costs related to our worldwide supply chain initiative and additional factory outlet stores in the EMEA Region. Other expense, net, was $74.7 million for fiscal 2004 compared to $77.5 million in fiscal 2003. In both years, the most significant component of other expense, net, was foreign currency hedge losses. The hedge losses reflect that the euro strengthened considerably since we entered into these hedge contracts. Also included in other expense, net, for fiscal 2004 was an increase in net losses on asset disposals, including a loss of $5.3 million on land gifted to the NIKE Foundation in the first quarter. In 2004, net foreign currency losses in other expense, net, were more than offset by favorable translation of foreign currency denominated profits, most significantly in EMEA. Our estimate of the net impact of these losses and the favorable translation is a $157 million addition to consolidated income before income taxes compared to the prior year. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2004 was 34.8%, which is higher than the fiscal 2003 rate of 34.1% as a result of a higher tax provision on foreign earnings in fiscal 2004. Included in net income for fiscal 2003 was a $266.1 million charge for the cumulative effect of implementing Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, (FAS 142). This charge related to the impairment of goodwill and trademarks associated with Bauer NIKE Hockey and the goodwill of Cole Haan, reflecting that the fair values we estimated for these assets were less than the carrying values. See the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 4 Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill) for further information. Operating Segments For EMEA, changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for 17 percentage points of the reported increase in revenues in fiscal 2004. The remaining increase over the prior year was primarily driven by NIKE owned retail (due to the addition of new stores in fiscal 2004) and increased footwear volume (led by soccer products). Excluding the impact of currency exchange movements, sales in each EMEA business unit grew versus fiscal 2003. EMEA pre tax income for fiscal 2004 was $744.0 million, up 43% versus the prior year. Higher revenues and gross margin improvements drove the increase, more than offsetting incremental selling and 21 Table of Contents administrative costs. The improved gross margins were primarily the result of improved year over year hedge rates and higher in line and closeout pricing margins. In the Asia Pacific Region, fiscal 2004 revenues increased 20% year over year. Eight percentage points of growth for the fiscal year were due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of currency exchange movements, sales in each Asia Pacific business unit grew versus fiscal 2003. The regions revenue growth was primarily due to unit volume increases, with significant revenue growth in China (driven by expansion of retail distribution and strong consumer demand) and Japan (driven by strong consumer demand). Pre tax income for the Asia Pacific Region increased to $352.3 million in fiscal 2004, up 22% versus fiscal 2003. Higher revenues and gross margin improvements drove the increase, more than offsetting incremental selling and administrative costs. The higher gross margins were primarily attributable to higher in line pricing margins and the benefit of better hedge rates on product purchases, partially offset by lower profitability of closeouts. In the Americas Region, revenues increased 19% compared to fiscal 2003, with 8 percentage points of the growth due to changes in currency exchange rates. Excluding the currency effects, the revenue growth was driven primarily by stronger consumer demand in South America and sales in each Americas business unit grew versus fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2004, pre tax income for the Americas Region increased 6% from the prior year, to $97.4 million. The increase in pre tax income was attributable to changes in currency exchange rates slightly offset by reduced gross margins and higher selling and administrative costs. Gross margins fell due to lower in line pricing margins as well as weaker currency exchange rates in Mexico. In the U.S. Region, revenues for fiscal 2004 grew 3% versus fiscal 2003, as revenues increased in each business unit. The increase in apparel sales was primarily driven by growth in sport performance product and increased consumer demand for team licensed apparel primarily in the first half of fiscal 2004. The increase in footwear revenue was due to an increase in average wholesale selling price per pair and increased sales in NIKE owned retail stores, partially offset by a slight decline in wholesale unit sales. The increase in average wholesale selling price per pair was partially due to a larger percentage of sales of products with a suggested retail price over $100. The slight decline in U.S. footwear wholesale unit sales was largely due to changes in distribution to several retail customers. For the first half of the year, sales to our largest customer, Foot Locker, were lower as a result of changes to our distribution strategy implemented in fiscal 2002 and 2003; while the decline in first half sales resulted in slightly lower sales for the full year, our year over year sales to Foot Locker grew in the second half of fiscal 2004. In addition, fiscal 2004 sales declined for another large customer, Footstar, which declared bankruptcy in March 2004. The sales declines for Foot Locker and Footstar were partially offset by increased sales to other accounts. For fiscal 2004, pre tax income for the U.S. Region was $1,007.3 million, a 6% increase versus fiscal 2003. Higher revenues and gross margins drove the increase, more than offsetting higher selling and administrative costs. The improved gross margins were primarily the result of higher in line and closeout pricing margins and expanded retail margins. Revenues for Other businesses grew 45% in fiscal 2004 compared to fiscal 2003; the addition of Converse contributed 23 percentage points of the increase. The remainder of the increase was due to revenue growth at NIKE Golf, Cole Haan, Hurley and Bauer NIKE Hockey. Pre tax income for Other businesses improved to $75.3 million in fiscal 2004, versus income of $7.9 million in fiscal 2003. The addition of Converse, combined with improved results from NIKE Golf and Cole Haan, drove the year over year improvement. 22 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Fiscal 2005 Cash Flow Activity Cash provided by operations was $1.6 billion in fiscal 2005, compared to $1.5 billion in fiscal 2004. Our primary source of operating cash flow was net income of $1.2 billion. In fiscal 2005, cash provided by operations was not significantly affected by the net change in working capital. In fiscal 2004, a net decrease in working capital provided $193.2 million in cash flow primarily due to improved cash management of our accounts receivable and timing of inventory receipts and vendor payments. Cash used by investing activities during fiscal 2005 was $360.4 million, compared to $950.6 million invested during fiscal 2004. The most significant uses of cash for investing activities in fiscal 2005 were net additions to property, plant and equipment of $250 million, and a net increase in short term investments (purchases partially offset by the maturities). The additions to property, plant and equipment reflect capital expenditures on computer equipment and software (to support both normal business operations and our supply chain systems upgrade), and continued investment in NIKE owned retail stores. The improvement over the prior year was primarily due to lower net purchases of short term investments and lower costs associated with the acquisition of subsidiaries. In fiscal 2005 and since inception of our current share repurchase program, we purchased approximately 6.9 million shares of NIKEs Class B common stock for $556.2 million. The share repurchases were part of a four year $1.5 billion share repurchase program that was approved by the Board of Directors in June 2004. We expect to continue to fund this program from operating cash flow. The timing and the ultimate amount of shares purchased under the program will be dictated by our capital needs and stock market conditions. Dividends declared per share of common stock for fiscal 2005 were $0.95, compared to $0.74 in fiscal 2004. We have paid a dividend every quarter since February 1984. Our current dividend policy is to provide an annual dividend equal to 20% to 30% of the trailing twelve months earnings per share paid out on a quarterly basis. We review our dividend policy from time to time, and based upon current projected earnings and cash flow requirements we anticipate continuing to pay a quarterly dividend in the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations Our long term contractual obligations as of May 31, 2005 are as follows: Cash Payments Due During the Year Ended May 31, Description of Commitment 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total (In millions) Operating Leases $ 186.7 $ 157.6 $ 135.3 $ 112.9 $ 97.8 $ 556.3 $ 1,246.6 Long term Debt 6.2 256.2 31.2 6.2 31.2 353.5 684.5 Endorsement Contracts(1) 400.3 405.0 276.9 182.3 102.9 317.6 1,685.0 Product Purchase Obligations(2) 1,858.2 2.8 1,861.0 Other(3) 250.5 75.9 26.1 25.5 2.1 1.3 381.4 Total $ 2,701.9 $ 897.5 $ 469.5 $ 326.9 $ 234.0 $ 1,228.7 $ 5,858.5 (1) The amounts listed for endorsement contracts represent approximate amounts of base compensation and minimum guaranteed royalty fees we are obligated to pay athlete and sport team endorsers of our products. Actual payments under some contracts may be higher than the amounts listed as these contracts provide for bonuses to be paid to the endorsers based upon athletic achievements and or royalties on product sales in future periods. Actual payments under some contracts may also be lower as these contracts include provisions for reduced payments if athletic performance declines in future periods. In addition to the cash payments, we are obligated to furnish the endorsers with NIKE products for their use. It is not possible to determine how much we will spend on this product on an annual basis as the contracts do not stipulate a specific amount of cash to be spent on the product. The amount of product 23 Table of Contents provided to the endorsers will depend on many factors including general playing conditions, the number of sporting events in which they participate, and our own decisions regarding product and marketing initiatives. In addition, the costs to design, develop, source, and purchase the products furnished to the endorsers are incurred over a period of time and are not necessarily tracked separately from similar costs incurred for products sold to customers. (2) We generally order product four to five months in advance of sale based primarily on advanced futures orders received from customers. The amounts listed for product purchase obligations represent agreements (including open purchase orders) to purchase products in the ordinary course of business, that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. In some cases, prices are subject to change throughout the production process. The reported amounts exclude product purchase liabilities included in accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. (3) Other amounts primarily include service and marketing commitments made in the ordinary course of business. The amounts represent the minimum payments required by legally binding contracts and agreements, including open purchase orders for non product purchases. The reported amounts exclude those liabilities included in accounts payable or accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Excluded from the table above is a commitment to an outsourcing contractor that provides us with information technology operations management services through fiscal 2006. The amount of the payments in future years depends on our level of monthly use of the different elements of the contractors services. If we were to terminate the entire contract as of May 31, 2005, we would be required to provide the contractor with four months notice and pay a termination fee of $13.4 million. Our monthly payments to the contractor currently approximate $7 million. Subsequent to May 31, 2005, we extended this contract through fiscal 2008 with substantially the same terms as noted above; however, the termination fee increased to approximately $19 million upon execution of the renewed contract and our estimated monthly payments decreased to approximately $6 million. We also have the following outstanding short term debt obligations as of May 31, 2005. Please refer to the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 6 Short term Borrowings and Credit Lines) for further description and interest rates related to the short term debt obligations listed below. Outstanding as of May 31, 2005 (In millions) Notes payable, due at mutually agreed upon dates, generally ninety days from issuance or on demand $ 69.8 Payable to Sojitz Corporation of America (Sojitz America) for the purchase of inventories, generally due sixty days after shipment of goods from a foreign port $ 53.1 As of May 31, 2005, letters of credit of $555.0 million were outstanding, primarily for the purchase of inventory. All letters of credit generally expire within one year. Capital Resources In October 2001, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under which $1 billion in debt securities may be issued. In May 2002, we commenced a medium term note program under the shelf registration that allows us to issue up to $500 million in medium term notes, as our capital needs dictate. We entered into this program to provide additional liquidity to meet our working capital and general corporate cash requirements. During fiscal 2005, there were no medium term notes issued under the program. In previous years $240.0 million in medium term notes were issued under the program. Currently, $760 million remains available to be issued under the shelf registration. We may issue additional notes under the shelf registration in fiscal 2006 depending on general corporate needs. As of May 31, 2005, we had a multi year $750 million revolving credit facility in place with a group of banks, and we currently have no amounts outstanding under the facility. The maturity date is November 20, 24 Table of Contents 2008 and the facility can be extended for one additional year on the anniversary date. Based on our current long term senior unsecured debt ratings of A+ and A2 from Standard and Poors Corporation and Moodys Investor Services, respectively, the interest rate charged on any outstanding borrowings would be the prevailing LIBOR plus 0.18%. The facility fee is 0.07% of the total commitment. If our long term debt rating were to decline, the facility fee and interest rate under our committed credit facility would increase. Conversely, if our long term debt rating were to improve, the facility fee and interest rate would decrease. Changes in our long term debt rating would not trigger acceleration of maturity of any then outstanding borrowings or any future borrowings under the committed credit facilities. Under this committed credit facility, we have agreed to various covenants. These covenants include limits on our disposal of fixed assets and the amount of debt secured by liens we may incur, and set a minimum capitalization ratio. In the event we were to have any borrowings outstanding under this facility, failed to meet any covenant, and were unable to obtain a waiver from a majority of the banks, any borrowings would become immediately due and payable. As of May 31, 2005, we were in full compliance with each of these covenants and believe it is unlikely we will fail to meet any of these covenants in the foreseeable future. Liquidity is also provided by our commercial paper program, under which there was no amount outstanding at May 31, 2005 or May 31, 2004. We currently have short term debt ratings of A1 and P1 from Standard and Poors Corporation and Moodys Investor Services, respectively. We currently believe that cash generated by operations, together with access to external sources of funds as described above, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital needs in the foreseeable future. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4 (FAS 151). FAS 151 clarifies that abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) are required to be recognized as current period charges. The provisions of SFAS No. 151 are effective for our fiscal year beginning June 1, 2006. We are currently evaluating the provisions of FAS 151 and do not expect that the adoption will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. On December 16, 2004, the FASB finalized SFAS No. 123R Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which, after the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) amended the compliance dates on April 15, 2005, will be effective for our fiscal year beginning June 1, 2006. The new standard will require us to record compensation expense for stock options using a fair value method. On March 29, 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107), which provides the Staffs views regarding interactions between FAS 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations and provides interpretations of the valuation of share based payments for public companies. We are currently evaluating FAS 123R and SAB 107 to determine the fair value method to measure compensation expense, the appropriate assumptions to include in the fair value model and the transition method to use upon adoption. The impact of the adoption of FAS 123R is not known at this time due to these factors as well as the unknown level of share based payments granted in future years. The effect on our results of operations of expensing stock options using the Black Scholes model is presented in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies). Under certain conditions, stock options granted by the Company are eligible for accelerated vesting upon the retirement of the employee. The FASB clarified in FAS 123R that the fair value of such stock options should be expensed based on an accelerated vesting schedule or immediately, rather than ratably over the vesting period stated in the grant. Our pro forma disclosure currently reflects the expense of such options ratably over the stated vesting period, expensing all unvested shares upon actual retirement. The SEC has recently clarified that companies should continue to follow the vesting method they have been using until adoption of FAS 123R, then apply the accelerated vesting schedule to all subsequent grants to those employees eligible for accelerated vesting upon retirement. Had we been accounting for such stock options 25 Table of Contents using the accelerated vesting schedule for those employees eligible for accelerated vesting upon retirement, we would have recognized additional stock based compensation expense in our pro forma disclosure of the effect of expensing stock options presented in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 1 Significant Accounting Policies) of $0.05 per diluted share in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003. Critical Accounting Policies Our previous discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We believe that the estimates, assumptions and judgments involved in the accounting policies described below have the greatest potential impact on our financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these matters, actual results could differ from the estimates we use in applying the critical accounting policies. Certain of these critical accounting policies affect working capital account balances, including the policies for revenue recognition, the reserve for uncollectible accounts receivable, inventory reserves, and contingent payments under endorsement contracts. These policies require that we make estimates in the preparation of our financial statements as of a given date. However, since our business cycle is relatively short, actual results related to these estimates are generally known within the six month period following the financial statement date. Thus, these policies generally affect only the timing of reported amounts across two to three quarters. Within the context of these critical accounting policies, we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely events or circumstances that would result in materially different amounts being reported. Revenue Recognition We record wholesale revenues when title passes and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the customer, based on the terms of sale. Title passes generally upon shipment or upon receipt by the customer depending on the country of the sale and the agreement with the customer. Retail store revenues are recorded at the time of sale. In some instances, we ship product directly from our supplier to the customer and recognize revenue when the product is delivered to and accepted by the customer. Our revenues may fluctuate in cases when our customers delay accepting shipment of product for periods up to several weeks. In certain countries outside of the U.S., precise information regarding the date of receipt by the customer is not readily available. In these cases, we estimate the date of receipt by the customer based upon historical delivery times by geographic location. On the basis of our tests of actual transactions, we have no indication that these estimates have been materially inaccurate historically. As part of our revenue recognition policy, we record estimated sales returns and miscellaneous claims from customers as reductions to revenues at the time revenues are recorded. We base our estimates on historical rates of product returns and claims, and specific identification of outstanding claims and outstanding returns not yet received from customers. Actual returns and claims in any future period are inherently uncertain and thus may differ from our estimates. If actual or expected future returns and claims were significantly greater or lower than the reserves we had established, we would record a reduction or increase to net revenues in the period in which we made such determination. Reserve for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable We make ongoing estimates relating to the collectibility of our accounts receivable and maintain a reserve for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In determining the amount of the reserve, we consider our historical level of credit losses and make judgments about the creditworthiness of significant customers based on ongoing credit evaluations. Since we cannot predict future 26 Table of Contents changes in the financial stability of our customers, actual future losses from uncollectible accounts may differ from our estimates. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments, a larger reserve might be required. In the event we determined that a smaller or larger reserve was appropriate, we would record a credit or a charge to selling and administrative expense in the period in which we made such a determination. Inventory Reserves We also make ongoing estimates relating to the net realizable value of inventories, based upon our assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If we estimate that the net realizable value of our inventory is less than the cost of the inventory recorded on our books, we record a reserve equal to the difference between the cost of the inventory and the estimated net realizable value. This reserve is recorded as a charge to cost of sales. If changes in market conditions result in reductions in the estimated net realizable value of our inventory below our previous estimate, we would increase our reserve in the period in which we made such a determination and record a charge to cost of sales. Contingent Payments under Endorsement Contracts A significant portion of our demand creation expense relates to payments under endorsement contracts. In general, endorsement payments are expensed uniformly over the term of the contract. However, certain contract elements may be accounted for differently, based upon the facts and circumstances of each individual contract. Some of the contracts provide for contingent payments to endorsers based upon specific achievements in their sports (e.g., winning a championship). We record selling and administrative expense for these amounts when the endorser achieves the specific goal. Some of the contracts provide for payments based upon endorsers maintaining a level of performance in their sport over an extended period of time (e.g., maintaining a top ranking in a sport for a year). These amounts are reported in selling and administrative expense when we determine that it is probable that the specified level of performance will be maintained throughout the period. In these instances, to the extent that actual payments to the endorser differ from our estimate due to changes in the endorsers athletic performance, increased or decreased selling and administrative expense may be reported in a future period. Some of the contracts provide for royalty payments to endorsers based upon a predetermined percentage of sales of particular products. We expense these payments in cost of sales as the related sales are made. In certain contracts, we offer minimum guaranteed royalty payments. For contractual obligations for which we estimate that we will not meet the minimum guaranteed amount of royalty fees through sales of product, we record the amount of the guaranteed payment in excess of that earned through sales of product in selling and administrative expense uniformly over the remaining guarantee period. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment, including buildings, equipment, and computer hardware and software is recorded at cost (including, in some cases, the cost of internal labor) and is depreciated over its estimated useful life. Changes in circumstances (such as technological advances or changes to our business operations) can result in differences between the actual and estimated useful lives. In those cases where we determine that the useful life of a long lived asset should be shortened, we increase depreciation expense over the remaining useful life to depreciate the assets net book value to its salvage value. When events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of property, plant and equipment may be impaired, we estimate the future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset to determine whether or not a potential impairment exists. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows, we then calculate the impairment as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over our estimate of its fair market value. Any impairment charges are recorded as other expense, net. We estimate future undiscounted cash flows using assumptions about our expected future operating performance. Our estimates of undiscounted 27 Table of Contents cash flows may change in future periods due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to our business operations or inability to meet business plans. Such changes may result in impairment charges in the period in which such changes in estimates are made. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We adopted FAS 142 effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2003. In accordance with FAS 142, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized but instead measured for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, or when events indicate that an impairment exists. As required by FAS 142, in our impairment tests for goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets, we compare the estimated fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets to the carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of fair value, we calculate impairment as the excess of the carrying value over our estimate of fair value. Our estimates of fair value utilized in goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible asset tests may be based upon a number of factors, including our assumptions about the expected future operating performance of our reporting units. Our estimates may change in future periods due to, among other things, technological change, economic conditions, changes to our business operations or inability to meet business plans. Such changes may result in impairment charges recorded in future periods. As discussed further above, upon adoption of FAS 142 in fiscal 2003, we recorded an impairment charge related to goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets of $266.1 million. This charge is shown on our consolidated statement of income as the cumulative effect of accounting change. Subsequent to adoption, any goodwill impairment charges would be classified as a separate line item on our consolidated statement of income as part of income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change. Other indefinite lived intangible asset impairment charges would be classified as other expense, net. Intangible assets that are determined to have definite lives are amortized over their useful lives and are measured for impairment only when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired. In these cases, we estimate the future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset to determine whether or not a potential impairment exists. If the carrying value exceeds our estimate of future undiscounted cash flows, we then calculate the impairment as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over our estimate of its fair value. Any impairment charges would be classified as other expense, net. Hedge Accounting for Derivatives We use forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge certain anticipated foreign currency exchange transactions, as well as any resulting receivable or payable balance. When specific criteria required by SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative and Hedging Activities, as amended and interpreted (FAS 133) have been met, changes in fair values of hedge contracts relating to anticipated transactions are recorded in other comprehensive income rather than net income until the underlying hedged transaction affects net income. In most cases, this results in gains and losses on hedge derivatives being released from other comprehensive income into net income some time after the maturity of the derivative. One of the criteria for this accounting treatment is that the forward exchange contract amount should not be in excess of specifically identified anticipated transactions. By their very nature, our estimates of anticipated transactions may fluctuate over time and may ultimately vary from actual transactions. When anticipated transaction estimates or actual transaction amounts decrease below hedged levels, or when the timing of transactions changes significantly, we are required to reclassify at least a portion of the cumulative changes in fair values of the related hedge contracts from other comprehensive income to other expense, net during the quarter in which such changes occur. Once an anticipated transaction estimate or actual transaction amount decreases below hedged levels, we make adjustments to the related hedge contract in order to reduce the amount of the hedge contract to that of the revised anticipated transaction. Taxes We record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets, when necessary, in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Realization of deferred tax assets (such as net operating loss 28 Table of Contents carryforwards) is dependent on future taxable earnings and is therefore uncertain. At least quarterly, we assess the likelihood that our deferred tax asset balance will be recovered from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset, increasing our income tax expense in the period such determination is made. In addition, we have not recorded U.S. income tax expense for foreign earnings that we have determined to be indefinitely reinvested offshore, thus reducing our overall income tax expense. The amount of earnings designated as indefinitely reinvested offshore is based upon the actual deployment of such earnings in our offshore assets and our expectations of the future cash needs of our U.S. and foreign entities. Income tax considerations are also a factor in determining the amount of foreign earnings to be indefinitely reinvested offshore. We carefully review all factors that drive the ultimate disposition of foreign earnings determined to be reinvested offshore, and apply stringent standards to overcoming the presumption of repatriation. Despite this approach, because the determination involves our future plans and expectations of future events, the possibility exists that amounts declared as indefinitely reinvested offshore may ultimately be repatriated. For instance, the actual cash needs of our U.S. entities may exceed our current expectations, or the actual cash needs of our foreign entities may be less than our current expectations. This would result in additional income tax expense in the year we determined that amounts were no longer indefinitely reinvested offshore. Conversely, our approach may also result in a determination that accumulated foreign earnings (for which U.S. income taxes have been provided) will be indefinitely reinvested offshore. In this case, our income tax expense would be reduced in the year of such determination. On an interim basis, we estimate what our effective tax rate will be for the full fiscal year. The estimated annual effective tax rate is then applied to the year to date pre tax income excluding significant or infrequently occurring items, to determine the year to date tax expense. The income tax effects of infrequent or unusual items are recognized in the interim period in which they occur. As the fiscal year progresses, we continually refine our estimate based upon actual events and earnings by jurisdiction during the year. This continual estimation process periodically results in a change to our expected effective tax rate for the fiscal year. When this occurs, we adjust the income tax provision during the quarter in which the change in estimate occurs so that the year to date provision equals the expected annual rate. Other Contingencies In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in legal proceedings regarding contractual and employment relationships, product liability claims, trademark rights, and a variety of other matters. We record contingent liabilities resulting from claims against us, including related legal costs, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. We disclose contingent liabilities when there is a reasonable possibility that the ultimate loss will materially exceed the recorded liability. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple factors, in some cases including judgments about the potential actions of third party claimants and courts. Therefore, actual losses in any future period are inherently uncertain. Currently, we do not believe that any of our pending legal proceedings or claims will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. However, if actual or estimated probable future losses exceed our recorded liability for such claims, we would record additional charges as other expense, net during the period in which the actual loss or change in estimate occurred. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk In the normal course of business and consistent with established policies and procedures, we employ a variety of financial instruments to manage exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates. It is our policy to utilize these financial instruments only where necessary to finance our business and manage such exposures; we do not enter into these transactions for speculative purposes. We are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation as a result of our international sales, product sourcing and funding activities. Our foreign currency risk management objective is to reduce the variability of local entity cash flows as a result of exchange rate movements. We use forward exchange contracts and options to hedge 29 Table of Contents certain anticipated but not yet firmly committed transactions as well as certain firm commitments and the related receivables and payables, including third party or intercompany transactions. When we begin hedging exposures depends on the nature of the exposure and market conditions. Generally, all anticipated and firmly committed transactions that are hedged are to be recognized within twelve months, although at May 31, 2005 we had forward contracts hedging anticipated transactions that will be recognized in as many as 24 months. The majority of the contracts expiring in more than twelve months relate to the anticipated purchase of inventory by our European and Japanese subsidiaries. We use forward contracts to hedge non functional currency denominated payments under intercompany loan agreements. When intercompany loans are hedged, it is typically for their expected duration. Hedged transactions are principally denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars, Korean won, Australian dollars, and Mexican pesos. Our earnings are also exposed to movements in short and long term market interest rates. Our objective in managing this interest rate exposure is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows, and to reduce overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we maintain a mix of medium and long term fixed rate debt, commercial paper, and bank loans and have entered into interest rate swaps. Market Risk Measurement We monitor foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and related derivatives using a variety of techniques including a review of market value, sensitivity analysis, and Value at Risk (VaR). Our market sensitive derivative and other financial instruments, as defined by the SEC, are foreign currency forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts, interest rate swaps, intercompany loans denominated in non functional currencies, fixed interest rate U.S. dollar denominated debt, and fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debt. We use VaR to monitor the foreign exchange risk of our foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments only. The VaR determines the maximum potential one day loss in the fair value of these foreign exchange rate sensitive financial instruments. The VaR model estimates assume normal market conditions and a 95% confidence level. There are various modeling techniques that can be used in the VaR computation. Our computations are based on interrelationships between currencies and interest rates (a variance/ co variance technique). These interrelationships are a function of foreign exchange currency market changes and interest rate changes over the preceding one year. The value of foreign currency options does not change on a one to one basis with changes in the underlying currency rate. We adjusted the potential loss in option value for the estimated sensitivity (the delta and gamma) to changes in the underlying currency rate. This calculation reflects the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations on the derivative instruments only, and does not include the impact of such rate fluctuations on non functional currency transactions (such as anticipated transactions, firm commitments, cash balances, and accounts and loans receivable and payable), including those which are hedged by these instruments. The VaR model is a risk analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that we will incur, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market rates. It also does not represent the full extent of the possible loss that may occur. Actual future gains and losses will differ from those estimated because of changes or differences in market rates and interrelationships, hedging instruments and hedge percentages, timing and other factors. The estimated maximum one day loss in fair value on our foreign currency sensitive financial instruments, derived using the VaR model, was $25.7 and $24.9 million at May 31, 2005 and May 31, 2004, respectively. The increase in VaR as of May 31, 2005 occurred due to a larger portfolio of foreign currency derivative instruments which was largely offset by the effect of lower currency volatility on existing trades on the May 31, 2005 VaR computation versus the May 31, 2004 VaR computation. Such a hypothetical loss in fair value of our derivatives would be offset by increases in the value of the underlying transactions being hedged. The average monthly change in the fair values of foreign currency forward and foreign currency option derivative instruments was $37.2 million and $50.0 million for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, respectively. 30 Table of Contents Details of other market sensitive financial instruments and derivative financial instruments not included in the VaR calculation above are provided in the table below, except the interest rate swaps which are described below. These instruments include intercompany loans denominated in non functional currencies, fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debt, fixed interest rate U.S. dollar denominated debt and interest rate swaps. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Expected Maturity Date Year Ended May 31, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total Fair Value (In millions, except interest rates) Foreign Exchange Risk Euro Functional Currency Intercompany loan U.S. dollar denominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 270.4 $ 270.4 $ 270.4 Average interest rate 4.1 % 4.1 % Intercompany loan British pound denominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 67.8 $ 67.8 $ 67.8 Average interest rate 5.0 % 5.0 % U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Intercompany loan Japanese yen denominated Variable rate Principal payments $ 202.7 $ 202.7 $ 202.7 Average interest rate 0.4 % 0.4 % Intercompany loan Canadian dollar denominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 41.2 $ 41.2 $ 41.2 Average interest rate 2.9 % 2.9 % Korean Won Functional Currency Intercompany loan U.S. Dollar denominated Fixed rate Principal payments $ 40.8 $ 40.8 $ 40.8 Average interest rate 3.3 % 3.3 % Japanese Yen Functional Currency Long term Japanese yen debt Fixed rate Principal payments $ 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 161.9 192.9 $ 218.1 Average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 2.6 % 2.9 % Interest Rate Risk Japanese Yen Functional Currency Long term Japanese yen debt Fixed rate Principal payments $ 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 161.9 192.9 $ 218.1 Average interest rate 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.4 % 3.5 % 3.5 % 2.6 % 2.9 % U.S. Dollar Functional Currency Long term U.S. dollar debt Fixed rate Principal payments $ 250.0 25.0 25.0 190.0 $ 490.0 $ 502.9 Average interest rate 5.3 % 5.2 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 5.1 % 31 Table of Contents Intercompany loans and related interest amounts eliminate in consolidation. Intercompany loans are generally hedged against foreign exchange risk through the use of forward contracts with third parties, as discussed above. The fixed interest rate Japanese yen denominated debts were issued by and are accounted for by two of our Japanese subsidiaries. Accordingly, the monthly remeasurement of these instruments due to changes in foreign exchange rates is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income upon the consolidation of these subsidiaries. There were no significant changes in debt market risks during fiscal 2005. We did not issue any long term fixed rate corporate bonds during fiscal 2005; however, during fiscal 2002, 2003 and fiscal 2004 we issued a total of $490 million in long term fixed rate corporate bonds that mature between August 2006 and October 2015. Fixed interest rates on these bonds range from 4.7% to 5.66%. For each of the bonds issued in fiscal 2002, 2003 and fiscal 2004, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements whereby we receive fixed interest payments at the same rate as the bonds and pay variable interest payments based on the three month or six month LIBOR plus a spread. As a result of the interest rate swap agreements the average effective interest rate payable on these bonds was 4.17% at May 31, 2005 and 2.4% at May 31, 2004. Each swap has the same notional amount and maturity date as the corresponding bond, except for one swap for a $50 million bond issued in fiscal 2004. The $50 million bond issued in fiscal 2004 matures in October 2013 whereas the associated interest rate swap expires in October 2006. These interest rate swaps are accounted for as fair value hedges, so changes in the recorded fair values of the swaps are offset by changes in the recorded fair value of the related debt, except for the $50 million swap expiring in October 2006 which is not accounted for as a hedge. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of this swap are recorded to net income each period. The recorded fair value of the interest rate swaps accounted for as fair value hedges was a net $9.0 million gain at May 31, 2005 and a $3.3 million gain at May 31, 2004. The recorded fair value of the $50 million interest rate swap expiring October 2006 was not material for the years ended May 31, 2005 and 2004. In fiscal 2003 we also entered into an interest rate swap agreement related to a Japanese yen denominated intercompany loan with one of our Japanese subsidiaries. The Japanese subsidiary pays variable interest on the intercompany loan based on 3 month LIBOR plus a spread. Under the interest rate swap agreement, the subsidiary pays fixed interest payments at 0.8% and receives variable interest payments based on 3 month LIBOR plus a spread based on a notional amount of 8 billion Japanese yen. This interest rate swap is not accounted for as a hedge, accordingly changes in the fair value of the swap are recorded to net income each period. The recorded fair value of the swap was not material for the years ended May 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements and Analyst Reports Certain written and oral statements, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to NIKEs business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, made or incorporated by reference from time to time by NIKE or its representatives in this report, other reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will be, will continue, will likely result, or words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward looking statements. The risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in reports filed by NIKE with the SEC, including Forms 8 K, 10 Q, and 10 K, and include, among others, the following: international, national and local general economic and market conditions; the size and growth of the overall athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment markets; intense competition among designers, marketers, distributors and sellers of athletic footwear, apparel, and equipment for consumers and endorsers; demographic changes; changes in consumer preferences; popularity of particular designs, categories of products, and sports; seasonal and geographic demand for NIKE products; difficulties in anticipating or forecasting changes in 32 Table of Contents consumer preferences, consumer demand for NIKE products, and the various market factors described above; difficulties in implementing, operating, and maintaining NIKEs increasingly complex information systems and controls, including, without limitation, the systems related to demand and supply planning, and inventory control; interruptions in data and communications systems; fluctuations and difficulty in forecasting operating results, including, without limitation, the fact that advance futures orders may not be indicative of future revenues due to the changing mix of futures and at once orders, currency exchange rate fluctuations, order cancellations, and the fact that a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures orders; the ability of NIKE to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and inventories; the size, timing and mix of purchases of NIKEs products; new product development and introduction; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property; performance and reliability of products; customer service; adverse publicity; the loss of significant customers or suppliers; dependence on distributors; business disruptions; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; increases in borrowing costs due to any decline in our debt ratings; changes in business strategy or development plans; general risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including without limitation, import duties, tariffs, quotas, political and economic instability, and terrorism; changes in government regulations; liability and other claims asserted against NIKE; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely affect NIKEs business and financial performance. Moreover, NIKE operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on NIKEs business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements as a prediction of actual results. 
 
