Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Moodys Investors Service publishes credit ratings and associated opinions on a broad range of obligors and obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. It also publishes investor oriented credit information, research and economic commentary, including in depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, special comments and credit opinion handbooks. Moodys credit ratings and research help investors analyze the credit risks associated with fixed income securities and other credit sensitive instruments. Such independent credit ratings and research also contribute to efficiencies in markets for other obligations, such as insurance policies and derivative transactions, by providing credible and independent assessments of credit risk. Moodys provides ratings and credit research on governmental and commercial entities in more than 100 countries. Moodys global and increasingly diverse services are designed to increase market efficiency and may reduce transaction costs. As of December 31, 2007, Moodys had ratings relationships with more than 11,000 corporate issuers and approximately 26,000 public finance issuers. Additionally, the Company has rated more than 110,000 structured finance obligations. Ratings are disseminated via press releases to the public through a variety of print and electronic media, including the Internet and real time information systems widely used by securities traders and investors. Moodys research services, data and analytic tools are utilized by institutional investors and other credit and capital markets professionals. These services cover various segments of the loan and debt capital markets, and are sold to more than 8,700 customer accounts worldwide. Within these accounts, more than 30,000 unique users accessed Moodys research website (www.moodys.com) during calendar year 2007. In addition to these clients, more than 167,000 other individuals visited Moodys website to retrieve current ratings and other information made freely available to the public. MKMV develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services, including credit processing and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. With more than 1,800 clients operating in approximately 85 countries, MKMV serves banks, corporations and institutional investors, including most of the worlds largest financial institutions. MKMVs quantitative credit analysis tools include models that estimate the probability of default for approximately 29,000 publicly traded firms globally, updated daily. In addition, MKMVs RiskCalc models extend the availability of these probabilities to privately held firms in many of the worlds economies. MKMV also offers services to value and improve the performance of credit sensitive portfolios. Prospects for Growth Over recent decades, global fixed income markets have grown significantly in terms of outstanding principal amount and types of securities or other obligations. Despite the recent market disruption and decline in issuance activity for some important classes of securities in the U.S. and internationally, Moodys believes that the overall long term outlook remains favorable for continued secular growth of fixed income markets worldwide. However, Moodys expects that, in the near term, growth drivers such as financial innovation and disintermediation will slow as capital market participants adjust to the 2 recent poor performance of some structured finance asset classes, such as U.S. residential mortgage backed securities and credit derivatives. Restoring investor confidence in structured products will require enhancements to Moodys rating processes and probably greater transparency from issuers of structured (or securitized) debt. Moodys is developing updated rating methodologies, volatility measures, and pricing and valuation services to aid the return of investor trust and, though it is likely to be a measured process, Moodys expects that these initiatives will support continued long term demand for high quality, independent credit opinions. Growth in global fixed income markets is attributable to a number of forces and trends. Advances in information technology, such as the Internet, make information about investment alternatives widely available throughout the world. This technology facilitates issuers ability to place securities outside their national markets and investors capacity to obtain information about securities issued outside their national markets. Issuers and investors are also more readily able to obtain information about new financing techniques and new types of securities that they may wish to purchase or sell, many of which may be unfamiliar to them. This availability of information promotes the ongoing integration and development of worldwide financial markets and a greater need for credible, globally comparable opinions about credit risk. As a result, existing capital markets have expanded and a number of new capital markets have emerged. In addition, more issuers and investors are accessing developed capital markets. Another trend that is driving growth in the worlds capital markets is the disintermediation of financial systems. Issuers increasingly raise capital in the global public capital markets, in addition to, or in substitution for, traditional financial intermediaries. Moreover, financial intermediaries have sold assets in the global public capital markets, in addition to or instead of retaining those assets. Recent credit market disruptions have slowed the trend of disintermediation in important markets such as the U.S. and Europe, but Moodys believes that debt capital markets offer advantages in capacity and efficiency compared to the traditional banking systems. Thus, disintermediation is expected to expand in the longer term. Growth in issuance of structured finance securities has generally been stronger than growth in straight corporate and financial institutions debt issuance, though with recent market turmoil this trend is expected to change at least over the near term, and possibly longer, with investors preferring simpler, more standardized and more transparent securities to more complex financial instruments. Compared with 2007, Moodys expects a decline in structured finance revenue at least through 2008 and possibly into 2009 and beyond. Rating fees paid by debt issuers account for most of the revenue of Moodys Investors Service. Therefore, a substantial portion of Moodys revenue is dependent upon the volume and number of debt securities issued in the global capital markets that Moodys rates. Moodys is therefore affected by, for example, the performance, and the prospects for growth, of the major world economies, the fiscal and monetary policies pursued by their governments, and the decisions of issuers to request Moodys ratings to aid investors in their investment decision process. However, annual fee arrangements with frequent debt issuers, annual debt monitoring fees and annual fees from commercial paper and medium term note programs, bank and insurance company financial strength ratings, mutual fund ratings, subscription based research and other areas are less dependent on, or independent of, the volume or number of debt securities issued in the global capital markets. Moodys operations are also subject to various risks inherent in carrying on business internationally. Such risks include currency fluctuations and possible nationalization, expropriation, exchange and price controls, changes in the availability of data from public sector sources, limits on providing information across borders and other restrictive governmental actions. Management believes that the risks of nationalization or expropriation are reduced because the Companys basic service is the creation and dissemination of information, rather than the production of products that require manufacturing facilities or the use of natural resources. However, the formation of, for example, a new government sponsored regional or global rating agency would pose a risk to Moodys growth prospects. Management believes that this risk, compared to other regulatory changes under consideration for the credit rating industry, is relatively low because of the likelihood that substantial investments over a sustained period would be required, with uncertainty about the likelihood of financial success. Legislative bodies and regulators in both the United States, Europe and selective other jurisdictions continue to conduct regulatory reviews of credit rating agencies, which may result in, for example, an increased number of competitors, changes to the business model or restrictions on certain business activities of Moodys Investors Service, or increased costs of doing business for Moodys. Therefore, in order to broaden the potential for expansion of non ratings services, beginning in January 2008, Moodys has reorganized into two distinct businesses, Moodys Investors Service, consisting solely of the ratings business, and Moodys Analytics. Moodys Analytics now conducts all non ratings activities, and includes the MKMV business, the sale of credit research produced by Moodys Investors Service and the production and sale of other credit related products and services. The reorganization is expected to broaden the opportunities for expansion by Moodys Analytics into activities which were previously restricted, due to the potential for conflicts of interest with the ratings business. At present, Moodys is unable to assess the nature and effect any regulatory changes may have on future growth opportunities. See Regulation below. Moodys Analytics expects to benefit from the growing demand among credit market participants for information that enables them to make sound investment and risk management decisions. These customers require advanced qualitative and 3 quantitative tools to support their management of increasingly complex capital market instruments. Such complexity creates analytical challenges for market participants, including financial intermediaries, asset managers and other investors. In recent years, reliable third party ratings and research served to supplement or substitute for traditional in house research as the scale, geographic scope and complexity of financial markets grew. Recent disruptions in credit markets threaten to slow this trend, but Moodys expects to sustain reliance on its offerings as enhancements to credit rating methodologies and other changes in securities origination processes restore investor confidence and more orderly market operations. Growth in Moodys Analytics is also expected as financial institutions adopt active credit portfolio management practices and implement internal credit assessment tools for compliance with Basel II regulations. Moodys Analytics offers products that respond to these needs. This growth will be realized by, for example, the development of new private firm default probability models for specific countries and by expanding analysis capabilities of new asset classes. Competition The Moodys Investors Service business competes with other credit rating agencies and with investment banks and brokerage firms that offer credit opinions and research. Many of our customers also have in house credit research capabilities. Moodys largest competitor in the global credit rating business is Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P), a division of The McGraw Hill Companies, Inc. There are some rating markets, based on industry, geography and or instrument type, in which Moodys has made investments and obtained market positions superior to S&Ps. In other markets, the reverse is true. In addition to S&P, Moodys competitors include Fitch, a subsidiary of Fimalac S.A., Dominion Bond Rating Service, Ltd. of Canada (DBRS) and A.M. Best Company, Inc. In 2007, Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd., Rating and Investment Information, Inc, (R&I) and Egan Jones also were designated as Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSRO), and in February 2008, LACE Financial Corp. also was registered as an NRSRO. One or more additional rating agencies may emerge in the United States as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) continues to expand the number of NRSROs. Competition may also increase in developed or developing markets outside the United States over the next few years as the number of rating agencies increases. Financial regulators are reviewing their approach to supervision and have sought or are seeking comments on changes to the global regulatory framework that could affect Moodys. Bank regulators, under the oversight of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, have proposed using refined risk assessments as the basis for minimum capital requirements. The proposed Standardized Approach relies on rating agency opinions, while the proposed Internal Ratings Based Approach relies on systems and processes maintained by the regulated bank. The increased regulatory focus on credit risk presents both opportunities and challenges for Moodys. Global demand for credit ratings and risk management services may rise, but regulatory actions may result in a greater number of rating agencies and or additional regulation of Moodys and its competitors. Alternatively, banking or securities market regulators could seek to reduce the use of ratings in regulations, thereby reducing certain elements of demand for ratings, or otherwise seek to control the analysis or business of rating agencies. Credit rating agencies such as Moodys also compete with other means of managing credit risk, such as credit insurance. Competitors that develop quantitative methodologies for assessing credit risk also may pose a competitive threat to Moodys. Moodys Analytics main competitors for quantitative measures of default risk include the RiskMetrics Group, S&P, CreditSights, R&Is Financial Technology Institute, Fitch Algorithmics, Dun and Bradstreet, and other smaller vendors, as well as models developed internally by customers. Other firms may compete in the future. Baker Hill, acquired by Experian, and Bureau van Dijk Electronic Publishing are Moodys Analytics main competitors in the market for analytical software supporting commercial lending activities. Mercer Oliver Wyman competes with the professional services group at Moodys Analytics for certain credit risk consulting services business. In economic analysis, data and modeling services, Moodys Analytics faces competition from Global Insight, Haver Analytics and a number of smaller firms around the world. Moodys Strategy Moodys intends to focus on the following opportunities: Expansion in Financial Centers Moodys serves its customers through its global network of offices and business affiliations. Moodys currently maintains comprehensive rating and marketing operations in financial centers including Frankfurt, Hong Kong, London, Madrid, Milan, Moscow, New York, Paris, Singapore, Sydney and Tokyo. Moodys expects that its global network will position it to benefit from the expansion of worldwide capital markets and thereby increase revenue. Moodys also expects that the growth of its Moodys Investors Service business as a consequence of financial market integration in Europe will continue. Additionally, Moodys expects to continue its expansion into developing markets either directly or through joint ventures. This will allow Moodys to extend its credit opinion franchise to local and regional obligors, through domestic currency ratings and national scale ratings. 4 New Rating Products Moodys is pursuing numerous initiatives to expand credit ratings, including from public fixed income securities markets to other sectors with credit risk exposures. Within established capital markets, Moodys continues to expand its rating coverage of bank loans and project finance loans and securities. In global and local counterparty markets, Moodys offers distinct sets of rating products to address the creditworthiness of financial firms, including bank financial strength and deposit ratings, and insurance financial strength ratings. Moodys has also introduced issuer ratings for corporations not active in the debt markets. In response to growing investor demand for expanded credit opinion in the high yield market, Moodys has introduced a number of new products, including joint default analysis, corporate financial metrics, and both loss given default and probability of default ratings. The recent disruptions in the structured finance markets may provide opportunities to enhance structured finance offerings to meet investor demands for more information content. In order to capitalize on market developments and to enhance ratings surveillance efficiency, Moodys has created a new products group within Moodys Investors Service to focus on new ratings products, such as hedge fund operations quality ratings, and to identify, design, develop and maintain value added research, analytics and data products serving the capital markets. Internet Enhanced Products and Services Moodys is expanding its use of the Internet and other electronic media to enhance client service. Moodys website provides the public with instant access to ratings and provides the public and subscribers with credit research. Internet delivery also enables Moodys to provide services to more individuals within a client organization than were available with paper based products and to offer higher value services because of more timely delivery. Moodys expects that access to these applications will increase client use of Moodys services. Moodys expects to continue to invest in electronic media to capitalize on these and other opportunities. Expansion of Credit Research Products and Investment Analytic Tools Moodys plans to expand its research and analytic services through internal development and through acquisitions. Most new product initiatives tend to be more analytical and data intensive than traditional narrative research offerings. Such services address investor interest in replicating the monitoring activities conducted by, for example, Moodys securitization analysts and provide the means for customers to gain access to raw data and adjusted financial statistics and ratios used by Moodys analysts in the rating process for municipalities, companies and financial institutions. These products represent important sources of growth for the research business. Moodys Analytics is developing products in the fixed income valuations and pricing arena that facilitate price transparency in global fixed income markets, especially for complex structured securities and derivative instruments. Moreover, Moodys continues to explore opportunities to extend its research relevance in new domestic or regional markets (e.g., China) as well as new functional markets (e.g., hedge funds). New Quantitative Credit Risk Assessment Services Moodys will continue to provide banks and other institutions with quantitative credit risk assessment services. Moodys believes that there will be increased demand for such services because they assist customers trading or holding credit sensitive assets to better manage risk and deliver better performance. Also, international bank regulatory authorities are assessing the adequacy of banks internal credit risk management systems for the purpose of determining regulatory capital. Such regulatory initiatives create demand for, and encourages adoption of, related services by banks from third party providers. Regulation In the United States, since 1975, Moodys Investors Service (MIS) has been designated as an NRSRO by the SEC. The SEC first applied the NRSRO designation in that year to companies whose credit ratings could be used by broker dealers for purposes of determining their net capital requirements. Since that time, Congress, the SEC and other governmental and private bodies have used the ratings of NRSROs to distinguish between, among other things, investment grade and non investment grade securities. In September 2006, the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006 (Reform Act) was passed, which created a voluntary registration process for rating agencies wishing to be designated as NRSROs. The Reform Act provides the SEC with authority to oversee NRSROs, while prohibiting the SEC from regulating the substance of credit ratings or the procedures and methodologies by which any NRSRO determines credit ratings. In June 2007, the SEC published final rules to implement 5 the Reform Act, which address the NRSRO application and registration process, as well as oversight rules related to recordkeeping, financial reporting, prevention of misuse of material non public information, conflicts of interest, and prohibited acts and practices. In June 2007, MIS submitted to the SEC its application for registration as an NRSRO and in September 2007 the SEC registered MIS as an NRSRO under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Consequently, MIS is now subject to the SECs oversight rules described above and, as required by the rules, has made its Form NRSRO Initial Application publicly available by posting it on the Regulatory Affairs page of the Companys website. Internationally, several regulatory developments have occurred: The Group of 7 Finance Minister and Central Bank Authorities (G 7) After their October 2007 meeting, the G 7 published a joint statement outlining their intended approach to the recent financial turbulence. In this statement, the Finance Ministers formally asked the Financial Stability Forum (FSF) to analyze the underlying causes of the turbulence and to provide an update at the G 7s meetings in late Spring 2008. The G 7 identified the following four areas on which it would like the FSF to offer proposals: liquidity and risk management; accounting and valuation of financial derivatives; role, methodologies and use of credit rating agencies in structured finance; and basic supervisory principles of prudential oversight, including the treatment of off balance sheet vehicles. The FSF has been working on this request and is expected to provide its recommendations at the G 7s Spring 2008 meeting. IOSCO In April 2007, the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) announced that it would reconstitute the Task Force on rating agencies to undertake a new mandate on the role of credit rating agencies in relation to the development of structured finance products. This work is to be carried out in close cooperation with the Committee on the Global Financial System (CGFS). In November 2007, IOSCO announced the creation of a new and dedicated Task Force to review the issues facing securities regulators following the recent events in the global credit markets. The topics which will be covered by this Task Force include: risk management / prudential supervision; transparency / due diligence; valuation of assets / accounting issues; and, credit rating agencies. It is anticipated that the Task Force will present its final report to the Technical Committee in May 2008 during IOSCOs Annual Conference in Paris. In December 2004, the Technical Committee of IOSCO published its Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating Agencies (IOSCO Code). MIS initially published its Code of Professional Conduct (MIS Code) pursuant to the IOSCO Code in June 2005 and published an updated Moodys Code in October 2007. In December 2007, MIS published its second, annual report on the implementation of the Moodys Code. The two annual reports and the MIS Code can be found on the Regulatory Affairs page of the Companys website. European Union The European Commission (Commission) stated in January 2006 and again in January 2007 that recent European Union (EU) financial services legislative measures that are relevant to credit rating agencies, combined with a self regulatory framework for rating agencies based on the IOSCO Code, provided a suitable framework for the oversight of rating agencies and that no legislative actions were required at the time. The Committee of European Securities Regulators (CESR) has been charged with monitoring rating agencies compliance with the IOSCO Code and reporting back to the Commission regularly. CESR conducted its first annual review to assess such compliance during 2006 and published its report in January 2007. CESR concluded that four internationally active rating agencies operating in the EU, including Moodys, are largely compliant with the IOSCO Code, and it identified a few areas where it believed rating agencies could improve their processes and disclosures and where the IOSCO Code could be improved. CESR began its second annual review in 2007 and is evaluating the areas identified in its 2006 report, the impact of the Reform Act on the ratings business in the European Union, and the role of rating agencies in the structured finance process, including securitizations backed by subprime residential mortgages. As part of CESRs review process, CESR has on two occasions requested comments from rating agencies and other market participants. The written responses MIS submitted to the CESR questionnaires can be found on the Regulatory Affairs page of the Companys website. CESR plans to publish its second annual report in mid 2008. The Basel Committee In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published a new bank capital adequacy framework (Basel II) to replace its initial 1988 framework. Under Basel II, ratings assigned by recognized credit rating agencies (called External Credit Assessment Institutions or ECAIs) can be used by banks in determining credit risk weights for many of their institutional credit exposures. Recognized ECAIs could be subject to a broader range of oversight. National authorities have begun the ECAI recognition process. Moodys has been recognized as an ECAI in several jurisdictions and the recognition process is ongoing in many others. Moodys does not currently believe that Basel II will materially affect its financial position or results of operations. In addition, as a result of the recent events in the U.S. subprime residential mortgage sector and the credit markets more broadly, various national and global regulatory and other authorities have initiated, or indicated that they are considering, reviews of the role of rating agencies in the U.S. subprime mortgage backed securitization market and structured finance more generally. Moodys is the subject of a number of such reviews and cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such current or potential future reviews, or their ultimate impact on the competitive position, financial position or results of operations of Moodys. 6 Other legislation and regulation relating to credit rating and research services has been considered from time to time by local, national and multinational bodies and is likely to be considered in the future. In certain countries, governments may provide financial or other support to locally based rating agencies. In addition, governments may from time to time establish official rating agencies or credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. If enacted, any such legislation and regulation could change the competitive landscape in which Moodys operates. In addition, the legal status of rating agencies has been addressed by courts in various decisions and is likely to be considered and addressed in legal proceedings from time to time in the future. Management of Moodys cannot predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted, the outcome of any pending or possible future legal proceedings, or regulatory or legislative actions, or the ultimate impact of any such matters on the competitive position, financial position or results of operations of Moodys. Intellectual Property Moodys and its affiliates own and control a variety of trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, databases and other intellectual property rights that, in the aggregate, are of material importance to Moodys business. Management of Moodys believes that each of the trademarks and related corporate names, marks and logos containing the term Moodys are of material importance to the Company. Moodys is licensed to use certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others, and, similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by Moodys. The Company considers its trademarks, service marks, databases, software and other intellectual property to be proprietary, and Moodys relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, non disclosure and contractual safeguards for protection. The names of Moodys products and services referred to herein are trademarks, service marks or registered trademarks or service marks owned by or licensed to Moodys or one or more of its subsidiaries. Employees As of December 31, 2007, the number of full time equivalent employees of Moodys was approximately 3,600. Available Information Moodys investor relations Internet website is http://ir.moodys.com/. Under the SEC Filings tab at this website, the Company makes available free of charge its annual reports on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Name, Age and Position Biographical Data Mark E. Almeida, 48 Senior Vice President Moodys Corporation and President Moodys Analytics Mr. Almeida, has served as Senior Vice President of Moodys Corporation since August 2007 and as President of Moodys Analytics since January 2008. Prior to this position, Mr. Almeida was Senior Managing Director of the Investor Services Group (ISG) at Moodys Investors Service, Inc. from December 2004 to August 2007 and was Group Managing Director of ISG from June 2000 to December 2004. Mr. Almeida joined Moodys Investors service in April 1988 and has held a variety of positions with the company in both the U.S. and overseas. 7 Name, Age and Position Biographical Data Brian M. Clarkson, 51 President and Chief Operating Officer Moodys Investors Service Mr. Clarkson has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Moodys Investors Service, Inc. since August 2007. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Clarkson was Executive Vice President and Co Chief Operating Officer of MIS, responsible for the Global Structured Finance and US Public Finance franchises from 2004 to 2007. He served as Senior Managing Director of the Asset Backed Finance Group from 2002 through 2003, and Group Managing Director of the Global Asset Finance Group from 1997 to 2001. From 1996 through 1997 he was Group Managing Director of the Mortgage Finance Group. He has also served as Managing Director of the Asset Backed Securities Group from 1994 to 1996 and Associate Director in Moodys Mortgage Backed Finance Group from 1993 through 1994. He joined Moodys Structured Finance Group as Senior Analyst in 1991. Mr. Clarkson is on the board of directors of the American Securitization Forum and Achievement First Endeavor. John J. Goggins, 47 Senior Vice President and General Counsel Mr. Goggins has served as the Companys Senior Vice President and General Counsel since October 1, 2000. Mr. Goggins joined Moodys Investors Service, Inc. in February 1999 as Vice President and Associate General Counsel and became General Counsel in 2000. Linda S. Huber, 49 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ms. Huber has served as the Companys Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Prior thereto, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at U.S. Trust Company, a subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc., from 2003 to 2005. Prior to U.S. Trust, she was Managing Director at Freeman & Co. from 1998 through 2002. She served PepsiCo as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development from 1997 until 1998 and as Vice President and Assistant Treasurer from 1994 until 1997. She served as Vice President in the Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Company from 1991 until 1994 and as an Associate in the Energy Group at First Boston Corporation from 1986 through 1990. She also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army where she served from 1980 to 1984. Andrew Kriegler, 43 Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Mr. Kriegler has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company since February 2007. He served as Canadian Country Managing Director from September 2000 to February 2007. Prior thereto, Mr. Kriegler served as a treasury executive for Canada Trust from 1997 to August 2000 and as an investment banker with the securitization and debt capital markets group at BMO Nesbitt Burns from 1993 to 1997. Prior thereto Mr. Kriegler was a securities trader at CIBC World Markets specializing in structured finance from 1990 to 1992 and an investment banker in 1993. Joseph (Jay) McCabe, 57 Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller Mr. McCabe has served as the Companys Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller since December 2005. Mr. McCabe joined Moodys in July 2004 as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Before joining the Company, he served 8 as Vice President Corporate Controller at PPL Corporation, an energy and utility company, from 1994 to 2003. Prior to PPL Corporation, he served Deloitte & Touche as Partner from 1984 to 1993 and as a member of the firms audit practice from 1973 to 1984. Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., 50 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. McDaniel, Jr., has served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since April 2005 and serves on the International Business Development Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. McDaniel served as the Companys President from October 2004 until April 2005 and the Companys Chief Operating Officer from January 2004 until April 2005. He served as President of Moodys Investors Service from November 2001 to August 2007. Mr. McDaniel served as the Companys Executive Vice President from April 2003 to January 2004, and as Senior Vice President, Global Ratings and Research from November 2000 until April 2003. He served as Senior Managing Director, Global Ratings and Research, of Moodys Investors Service, Inc. from November 2000 until November 2001 and as Managing Director, International from 1996 to November 2000. Mr. McDaniel is also a director of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Perry Rotella, 44 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Mr. Rotella has served as the Companys Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer since December 2006. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Chief Information Officer for American International Groups (AIG) Domestic Brokerage group from 2003 to 2006, Operations and Systems Executive in 2006 and Global Chief Technology Officer from 2000 to 2003. Prior to AIG, from 1985 to 1999, Mr. Rotella was with American Management Systems (AMS), a technology consulting firm, where he held a variety of positions including Chief Technology Officer for AMSs Insurance Technology Group. 9 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10 K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Companys management currently deems minor or insignificant also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occurs, Moodys business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Changes in the Volume of Debt Securities Issued in Domestic and or Global Capital Markets and Changes in Interest Rates and Other Volatility in the Financial Markets Approximately 79% of Moodys revenue in 2007 was derived from ratings. Revenues from ratings, in turn, are dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets. Accordingly, any conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which Moodys provides ratings services, and thereby, have an adverse effect on the fees derived from the issuance of ratings. Factors that could reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities include unfavorable financial or economic conditions. In addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant regulatory, political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively affect the general level of debt issuance and or the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers. Beginning in July 2007, there has been a significant disruption in world financial markets, particularly in the credit markets. A sustained period of market decline or weakness, especially if it relates to credit sensitive securities, for which there is typically a high level of demand for ratings, could have a material adverse effect on Moodys business and financial results. The Company has recently noted a substantial reduction in the volume of debt securities issued and related revenues as a result of the uncertainties presently being experienced in the market for collateralized debt and other structured finance obligations. Revenue earned from ratings in 2007 was approximately 9% higher as compared to 2006, however, ratings revenue in the second half of 2007 compared to the second half of 2006 decreased approximately 11% due to the reduced number of credit sensitive securities issued in the latter half of 2007 as a result of the credit turmoil beginning early in the third quarter of 2007. There can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that results will not continue to be adversely affected. To the Extent that Any Concerns Affecting Credibility are Perceived in the Marketplace Moodys Market Share and or Revenue Could be Affected Moodys reputation is one key factor on the basis of which it competes. Moodys is constantly taking steps to help maintain the absolute trustworthiness of its reputation, as well as its credibility in the marketplace. Accordingly, to the extent that rating agency business as a whole or Moodys, relative to its competitors, suffers a loss in credibility, Moodys business could be adversely affected. Factors that could affect ones credibility include, potentially, the performance of securities relative to the rating assigned to such securities by a particular rating agency, as well as the ability to recognize potential changes in ratings on a timely basis. Increased Pricing Pressure from Competitors and or Customers In the credit rating, research and credit risk management markets, competition for customers and market share has spurred more aggressive tactics by some competitors in areas such as pricing and service. While Moodys seeks to compete primarily on the basis of the quality of its products and service, if its pricing and services are not sufficiently competitive with its current and future competitors, Moodys may lose market share. Introduction of Competing Products or Technologies by Other Companies The markets for credit ratings, research and credit risk management services are highly competitive. The ability to provide innovative products and technologies that anticipate customers changing requirements and to utilize emerging technological trends is a key factor in maintaining market share. Competitors may develop quantitative methodologies or related services for assessing credit risk that customers and market participants may deem preferable, more cost effective or more valuable than the credit risk assessment methods currently employed by Moodys. Moodys growth prospects could also be adversely affected by limitations of its information technologies that fail to provide adequate capacity and capabilities to meet increased demands of producing quality ratings and research products at levels achieved by competitors. 10 Regulation as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization and Potential for New U.S., State and Local Legislation and Regulations When governments adopt regulations that require debt securities to be rated, establish criteria for credit ratings or authorize only certain entities to provide credit ratings, the competitive balance among rating agencies and the level of demand for ratings may be positively or negatively affected. Government mandated ratings criteria may also have the effect of displacing objective assessments of creditworthiness. In these circumstances, debt issuers may be less likely to base their choice of rating agencies on criteria such as independence and credibility, and more likely to base their choice on their assumption as to which credit rating agency might provide a higher rating, which may negatively affect the Company. In the United States and other countries, the laws and regulations applicable to credit ratings and rating agencies continue to evolve and are presently subject to review by a number of legislative or regulatory bodies, including the SEC in the United States and state and local oversight. It is possible that such reviews could lead to greater oversight or regulation concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. Such additional regulations could, potentially, increase the costs associated with the operation of a credit rating agency, alter the rating agencies communications with the issuers as part of the rating assignment process, increase the legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings, change the regulatory framework to which credit rating agencies are subject and or affect the competitive environment in which credit rating agencies operate. Currently, Moodys is designated as an NRSRO pursuant to SEC regulation enacted in response to the adoption of the Reform Act. One of the central promises of the Reform Act was to encourage competition among rating agencies. Given its recent adoption, Moodys is unable to assess the future impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the SECs regulations or the impact on Moodys competitive position or its current practices, although Moodys would expect the Reform Act to increase costs of all entities engaged in the rating agency business. Similarly, at present, Moodys is unable to predict the regulatory changes that may result from ongoing reviews by any of the various regulatory bodies or the effect that any such changes may have on its business. A description of several of the more recent regulatory initiatives in the United States and other countries is described above under the section entitled Regulation in Item 1. Business, of this Form 10 K. Potential for Increased Competition and Regulation in Foreign Jurisdictions Moodys maintains offices outside the U.S. and derives a significant and increasing portion of its revenue from sources outside the U.S. Operations in different countries expose Moodys to a number of legal, economic and regulatory risks such as restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars and currency fluctuations, export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers, political and economic instability as well as nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, longer payment cycles and possible problems in collecting receivables, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Moodys faces competition from, among others, S&P, Fitch, DBRS, local rating agencies in a number of international jurisdictions and specialized companies that provide ratings for particular types of financial products or issuers (such as A.M. Best Company, Inc., with respect to the insurance industry). Since Moodys believes that some of its most significant challenges and opportunities will arise outside the U.S., it will have to compete with rating agencies that may have a stronger local presence or a longer operating history in those markets. These local providers or comparable competitors that may emerge in the future may receive support from local governments or other institutions that Moodys does not receive, putting Moodys at a competitive disadvantage. Because Moodys operates globally and plans to expand its international scope, it must also react to regulatory changes abroad. CESR has monitored rating agencies compliance with the IOSCO Code. Although the CESR recently concluded in a report that the four internationally active rating agencies that operate in the European Union, including Moodys, are largely compliant with the IOSCO Code, it did identify a few areas where it believed the rating agencies could improve their processes and disclosures and where the IOSCO Code could be improved. CESR indicated that it will look into these areas in particular, as well as the impact of the Reform Act and the SECs implementing rules on the rating business in the European Union. Moodys is unable to assess the potential impact of any regulatory changes that may result from the CESRs review, including whether any additional regulation would restrict or otherwise inhibit Moodys expansion into foreign markets. See the discussion under the section entitled Regulation in Item 1. Business, of this Form 10 K, for additional information regarding the IOSCO Code and the CESR. 11 Exposure to Litigation Related to Moodys Rating Opinions Currently, Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities, as part of ongoing investigations, and is cooperating with those inquiries. The outcome of such investigations is presently unknown. In addition, Moodys faces litigation from time to time from parties claiming damages relating to ratings actions, as well as other related actions. As Moodys international business expands, these types of claims may increase or become more costly because foreign jurisdictions may not have legal protections or liability standards comparable to those in the U.S. (such as protections for the expression of credit opinions as is provided by the First Amendment and criminal rather than civil penalties). These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remains unknown for substantial periods of time. Possible Loss of Key Employees to Investment or Commercial Banks or Elsewhere and Related Compensation Cost Pressures Moodys success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining highly skilled, experienced financial analysts and other professionals. Competition for qualified staff in the financial services industry is intense, and Moodys ability to attract staff could be impaired if it is unable to offer competitive compensation and other incentives or if the regulatory environment mandates restrictions on or disclosures about individual employees that would not be necessary in competing analytical industries. Investment banks and other competitors for analyst talent may be able to offer higher compensation than Moodys or subject employees to less individual scrutiny. Moodys also may not be able to identify and hire employees in some markets outside the U.S. with the required experience or skills to perform sophisticated credit analysis. Moodys may lose key employees due to other factors, such as catastrophes, that could lead to disruption of business operations. Moodys ability to compete effectively will continue to depend, among other things, on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. Our Operations and Infrastructure may Malfunction or Fail Our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications or other services used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. We do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non essential services. If a disruption occurs in one of these locations and our personnel in those locations are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients and customers from these locations may suffer. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize our or our clients or counterparties confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients, our counterparties or third parties operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Moodys corporate headquarters is located at 7 World Trade Center at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, with approximately 668,513 square feet. During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company completed the sale of its former corporate headquarters building at 99 Church Street, New York, New York. As of December 31, 2007, Moodys operations were conducted from 16 U.S. offices and 37 non U.S. office locations, all of which are leased. These properties are geographically distributed to meet operating and sales requirements worldwide. These properties are generally considered to be both suitable and adequate to meet current operating requirements. 12 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, Moodys is involved in legal and tax proceedings, governmental investigations, claims and litigation that are incidental to the Companys business, including claims based on ratings assigned by Moodys. Moodys is also subject to ongoing tax audits in the normal course of business. Management periodically assesses the Companys liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters based upon the latest information available. Moodys discloses material pending legal proceedings, other than routine litigation incidental to Moodys business, material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities, and other pending matters that it may determine to be appropriate. For matters, except those related to income taxes, where it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company has recorded liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and periodically adjusts these as appropriate. In other instances, because of uncertainties related to the probable outcome and or the amount or range of loss, management does not record a liability but discloses the contingency if significant. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities accordingly. For income tax matters, the Company employs the prescribed methodology of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN No. 48) implemented as of January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. The discussion of the legal matters under Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies, commencing on page 17 of this annual report on Form 10 K, is incorporated into this Item 3 by reference. Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities and is cooperating with those inquiries. Based on its review of the latest information available, in the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of the Company for the unresolved matters referred to above is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial condition, although it is possible that the effect could be material to the Companys consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. This opinion is subject to the contingencies described in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this annual report on Form 10 K, no matter was submitted to a vote of security holders. 13 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Information in response to this Item is set forth under the captions Common Stock Information and Dividends in Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K, and under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information in the Companys definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held on April 22, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference. MOODYS PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES For the Three Months Ended December 31, 2007 Period Total Number ofShares Purchased Average PricePaid per Share Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly AnnouncedProgram Approximate Dollar Value ofShares That May yet bePurchased Under theProgram (2) October 1 31 1,231,601 (1) $ 48.46 1,231,491 $ 2,275.8 million November 1 30 1,596,717 39.30 1,596,717 2,213.0 million December 1 31 4,921,449 (1) 38.39 4,920,689 2,024.1 million Total 7,749,767 7,748,897 (1) Includes the surrender to the Company of 110 and 760 shares in October and December, respectively, of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees. (2) As of the last day of each of the months. On June 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, of which $24 million remains at December 31, 2007. On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase program. The Company will begin repurchasing shares under the new program upon completion of the $2.0 billion program authorized in June 2006. There is no established expiration date for either of these authorizations During the fourth quarter of 2007, Moodys repurchased 7.7 million shares of its common stock, at an aggregate cost of $311.4 million, and issued 0.8 million shares under employee stock based compensation plans. 14 PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph compares the total cumulative shareholder return of the Company to the performance of Standard & Poors Stock 500 Index (the S&P 500) and an index of performance peer group companies (the Performance Peer Group). The Company does not believe there are any publicly traded companies that represent strict peers. However, each of the companies in the Performance Peer Group offers business information products in one or more segments of its business. The Performance Peer Group consists of Dow Jones & Company, Inc., The McGraw Hill Companies, Pearson PLC, Reuters Group PLC, Thomson Corporation and Wolters Kluwer nv. The comparison assumes that $100.00 was invested in the Companys common stock (the Common Stock) and in each of the foregoing indices on December 31, 2002. The comparison also assumes the reinvestment of dividends, if any. The total return for the Common Stock was 77% during the performance period as compared with a total return during the same period of 83% for the S&P 500 and 106% for the Performance Peer Group. COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN SINCE DECEMBER 31, 2002 MOODYS CORPORATION, S&P COMPOSITE INDEX AND PEER GROUP INDEX PERIOD ENDING 12/31/2002 12/31/2003 12/31/2004 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 Moodys Corporation $ 100.00 $ 147.17 $ 212.01 $ 301.54 $ 340.58 $ 177.12 Peer Group Index 100.00 131.99 155.63 163.38 206.20 205.53 S&P Composite Index 100.00 128.68 142.69 149.70 173.34 182.87 The comparisons in the graph above are provided in response to disclosure requirements of the SEC and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of future performance of the Common Stock. 15 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The Companys selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Year Ended December 31, amounts in millions, except per share data 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Results of operations Revenue $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 $ 1,438.3 $ 1,246.6 Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses 1,035.1 898.7 756.8 617.8 550.9 Depreciation and amortization 42.9 39.5 35.2 34.1 32.6 Restructuring charge 50.0 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) Operating income 1,131.0 1,259.5 939.6 786.4 663.1 Non operating (expense) income, net (1) (14.3 ) 1.0 (4.9 ) (15.1 ) (6.7 ) Income before provision for income taxes 1,116.7 1,260.5 934.7 771.3 656.4 Provision for income taxes (2) 415.2 506.6 373.9 346.2 292.5 Net income $ 701.5 $ 753.9 $ 560.8 $ 425.1 $ 363.9 Earnings per share Basic $ 2.63 $ 2.65 $ 1.88 $ 1.43 $ 1.22 Diluted $ 2.58 $ 2.58 $ 1.84 $ 1.40 $ 1.19 Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 266.4 284.2 297.7 297.0 297.8 Diluted 272.2 291.9 305.6 304.7 304.6 Dividends declared per share $ 0.34 $ 0.29 $ 0.24 $ 0.15 $ 0.11 Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance sheet data Total assets $ 1,714.6 $ 1,497.7 $ 1,457.2 $ 1,389.3 $ 959.9 Long term debt (3) $ 600.0 $ 300.0 $ 300.0 $ $ 300.0 Shareholders (deficit) equity $ (783.6 ) $ 167.4 $ 309.4 $ 317.5 $ (32.1 ) (1) The 2007 amount includes a $31.9 million benefit related to the resolution of certain legacy tax matters, and the 2003 amount includes a gain of $13.6 million on an insurance recovery related to the September 11th tragedy. (2) The 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounts include net benefits of $20.4 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively and the 2004 and 2003 amounts include expenses of $30.0 million and $16.2 million, respectively, relating to certain legacy tax matters. (3) At December 31, 2004, the notes payable scheduled to mature in September 2005 were classified as a current liability and the 2007 amount includes the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes issued in September 2007. 16 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10 K. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains Forward Looking Statements. See Forward Looking Statements commencing on page 41 and Item 1A. Risk Factors commencing on page 10 for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and other factors associated with these statements. The Company Except where otherwise indicated, the terms Moodys and the Company refer to Moodys Corporation and its subsidiaries. Moodys is a provider of (i) credit ratings and related research, data and analytical tools, (ii) quantitative credit risk measures, risk scoring software, and credit portfolio management solutions and (iii) beginning in January 2008, fixed income pricing data and valuation models. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and Moodys KMV (MKMV). Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys Investors Service publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit obligors and credit obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. It also publishes investor oriented credit information, research and economic commentary, including in depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, special comments and credit opinion handbooks. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Prior to September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Old D&B). On September 8, 2000, the Board of Directors of Old D&B approved a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies the Company and The New D&B Corporation (New D&B). On September 30, 2000 (the Distribution Date), Old D&B distributed to its shareholders all of the outstanding shares of New D&B common stock (the 2000 Distribution). New D&B comprised the business of Old D&Bs Dun & Bradstreet operating company (the D&B Business). The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management services (the Moodys Business) and was renamed Moodys Corporation. New D&B is the accounting successor to Old D&B, which was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on April 8, 1998. Old D&B began operating as an independent publicly owned corporation on July 1, 1998 as a result of its June 30, 1998 spin off (the 1998 Distribution) from the corporation now known as R.H. Donnelley Corporation and previously known as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Donnelley). Old D&B became the accounting successor to Donnelley at the time of the 1998 Distribution. Prior to the 1998 Distribution, Donnelley was the parent holding company for subsidiaries then engaged in the businesses currently conducted by New D&B, Moodys and Donnelley. Prior to November 1, 1996, it also was the parent holding company of subsidiaries conducting business under the names Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant) and ACNielsen Corporation (ACNielsen). On that date Donnelley effected a spin off of the capital stock of Cognizant and ACNielsen to its stockholders (the 1996 Distribution). Cognizant subsequently changed its name to Nielsen Media Research, Inc. in connection with its 1998 spin off of the capital stock of IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health). For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a distribution agreement, tax allocation agreement, employee benefits agreement, shared transaction services agreement, insurance and risk management services agreement, data services agreement and transition services agreement. Detailed descriptions of the 1996, 1998 and 2000 Distributions are contained in the Companys 2000 annual report on Form 10 K, filed on March 15, 2001. 17 Critical Accounting Estimates Moodys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based on the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires Moodys to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These estimates are based on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, Moodys evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable allowances, contingencies, goodwill and intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefits and stock based compensation. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting estimates are considered critical because they are particularly dependent on managements judgment about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made and changes to those estimates could have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Revenue Recognition In recognizing revenue related to ratings, Moodys uses judgments to allocate billed revenue between ratings and the future monitoring of ratings in cases where the Company does not charge ongoing monitoring fees for a particular issuer. These judgments are not dependent on the outcome of future uncertainties, but rather relate to allocating revenue across accounting periods. In such cases, the Company defers portions of rating fees that it estimates will be attributed to future monitoring activities and recognizes the deferred revenue ratably over the estimated monitoring periods. The portion of the revenue to be deferred is based upon a number of factors, including the estimated fair market value of the monitoring services charged for similar securities or issuers. The monitoring period over which the deferred revenue will be recognized is determined based on factors such as the estimated lives of the rated securities. Currently, the estimated monitoring periods range from one to ten years. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue included approximately $54 million, $47 million and $36 million, respectively, related to such monitoring fees. Additionally, in the case of commercial mortgage backed securities, derivatives, international residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities, issuers can elect to pay the monitoring fees upfront. These fees are deferred and recognized over the future monitoring periods, ranging from nine to 46 years, which are based on the expected lives of the rated securities. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue related to these securities was approximately $86 million, $72 million and $57 million, respectively. Moodys estimates revenue for ratings of commercial paper for which, in addition to a fixed annual monitoring fee, issuers are billed quarterly based on amounts outstanding. Revenue is accrued each quarter based on estimated amounts outstanding and is billed when actual data is available. The estimate is determined based on the issuers most recent reported quarterly data. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, accounts receivable included approximately $38 million, $34 million and $31 million, respectively, related to accrued commercial paper revenue. Historically, the Company has not had material differences between the estimated revenue and the actual billings. Accounts Receivable Allowance Moodys records, as reductions of revenue, provisions for estimated future adjustments to customer billings based on historical experience and current conditions. Such provisions are reflected as additions to the accounts receivable allowance. Adjustments to and write offs of accounts receivable are charged against the allowance. Moodys evaluates its accounts receivable by reviewing and assessing historical collection and adjustment experience and the current status of customer accounts. Moodys also considers the economic environment of the customers, both from an industry and geographic perspective, in evaluating the need for allowances. Based on its reviews, Moodys establishes or adjusts allowances as considered appropriate in the circumstance. This process involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and could involve significant dollar amounts. Accordingly, Moodys results of operations can be affected by adjustments to the allowance. Management believes that the allowance for uncollectible accounts is adequate to cover anticipated adjustments and write offs under current conditions. However, significant changes in any of the above factors, or actual write offs or adjustments that differ from the estimated amounts could result in revenue adjustments that are greater or less than Moodys estimates. In each of 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company adjusted its provision rates and its allowances to reflect its current estimate of the appropriate level of accounts receivable allowance. Contingencies Accounting for contingencies, including those matters described in the Contingencies section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations, commencing on page 38 is highly subjective 18 and requires the use of judgments and estimates in assessing their magnitude and likely outcome. In many cases, the outcomes of such matters will be determined by third parties, including governmental or judicial bodies. The provisions made in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the related disclosures, represent managements best estimates of the then current status of such matters and their potential outcome based on a review of the facts and in consultation with outside legal counsel where deemed appropriate. The Company regularly reviews contingencies and as additional information becomes available may, in the future, adjust its associated liabilities. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on Moodys future reported results and financial position. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the provision for income taxes reflected credits of $27.3 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, due to changes in the Companys liabilities for legacy income tax exposures that were assumed by Moodys in connection with its separation from Old D&B in October 2000. These tax matters are more fully described under the caption Legacy Contingencies within Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Moodys evaluates its goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill requires that the Company make important assumptions and judgments about future operating results and cash flows as well as terminal values and discount rates. In estimating future operating results and cash flows, Moodys considers internal budgets and strategic plans, expected long term growth rates, and the effects of external factors and market conditions. If actual future operating results and cash flows or external conditions differ from the Companys judgments, or if changes in assumed terminal values or discount rates are made, an impairment charge may be necessary to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, which charge could be material to the Companys financial position and results of operations. Amortizable intangible assets are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Restructuring Charge The Company has engaged, and may continue to engage, in restructuring actions, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee benefit costs, contract termination costs and asset impairments. If the actual amounts differ from these estimates, the amount of the restructuring charge could be impacted. For a full description of Moodys restructuring actions, refer to the Results of Operations section below and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefits The expenses, assets, liabilities and obligations that Moodys reports for pension and other post retirement benefits are dependent on many assumptions concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These assumptions include the following: future compensation increases, based on the Companys long term actual experience and future outlook long term return on pension plan assets, based on historical portfolio results and the expected future average annual return for each major asset class within the plans portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed income investments) future healthcare cost trends, based on historical market data, near term outlooks and assessments of likely long term trends discount rates, based on current yields on high grade corporate long term bonds The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Companys benefit obligations as of December 31, 2007 was derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares the plans projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank pension discount curve. The cash flows are then discounted back to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. Moodys major assumptions vary by plan and assumptions used are set forth in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. In determining these assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries and other advisors as deemed appropriate. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in its calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions could have a significant effect on the expenses, assets and liabilities related to the Companys pension and other post retirement benefits. 19 When actual plan experience differs from the assumptions used, actuarial gains or losses arise. To the extent the total outstanding gain or loss exceeds a corridor threshold as defined in SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87), the excess is subject to amortization in annual expense over the estimated average future working lifetime of active plan participants. For Moodys pension and other post retirement benefit plans, the total losses as of December 31, 2007 which have not been recognized in annual expense are $19.0 million and in 2008, Moodys expects amortization of actuarial losses to be immaterial. For Moodys funded pension plan, the differences between the expected long term rate of return assumption and actual experience could also affect the net periodic pension expense. As permitted under SFAS No. 87, the Company spreads the impact of asset experience over a five year period for purposes of calculating the market related value of assets which is used in determining the expected return on assets component of annual expense and in calculating the total unrecognized gain or loss subject to amortization. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has an unrecognized asset gain of $4.1 million, of which $1.7 million will be recognized in the market related value of assets that is used to calculate the expected return on assets component of 2009 expense. The table below shows the estimated effect that a one percentage point decrease in each of these assumptions will have on Moodys 2008 operating income (dollars in millions). These effects have been calculated using the Companys current projections of 2008 assets, liabilities, obligations and expenses related to pension and other post retirement plans, which could change as updated data becomes available. Assumption Used for2008 Estimated Impact on2008 Operating Income (Decrease)/Increase Discount Rate* 6.45% / 6.35 % $ (5.8 ) Weighted Average Assumed Compensation Growth Rate 4.00 % $ 0.7 Assumed Long Term Rate of Return on Pension Assets 8.35 % $ (1.2 ) * Discount rates of 6.45% and 6.35% are used for pension plans and other post retirement plans, respectively. A one percentage point increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates will not affect 2008 projected expenses. Based on current projections, the Company estimates that expenses related to pension and post retirement plans will be approximately $13 million in 2008 compared with $16.2 million in 2007, excluding the costs of curtailment and special termination benefits of $10.8 million in 2007. The expected expense decrease in 2008 reflects the effects of higher discount rates, lower amortization of actuarial losses and reduction in workforce due to restructuring, which are partially offset by lower plan asset gains. Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, the Company implemented, under the modified prospective application method, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R). Under this pronouncement, companies are required to record compensation expense for all share based payment award transactions granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. This includes shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. Previously, on January 1, 2003, the Company implemented, on a prospective basis, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model that uses assumptions and estimates that the Company believes are reasonable. Some of the assumptions and estimates, such as share price volatility and expected option holding period, are based in part on Moodys experience during the period since becoming a public company, which is limited. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could produce materially different estimated fair values for option awards and related expense. An increase in the following assumptions would have had the following estimated effect on operating income in 2007 (dollars in millions): Assumption Used Increase inAssumption Estimated Impact onOperating Income in 2007Increase/(Decrease) Average Expected Dividend Yield 2003 2007 grants 0.41% 0.52% 0.10 % $ 1.2 Average Expected Share Price Volatility 2003 2007 grants 23% 30% 5 % $ (4.6 ) Expected Option Holding Period 2003 2007 grants 5.0 6.0 years 1.0 year $ (3.9 ) 20 Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The Companys tax assets and liabilities are affected by the amounts charged for service provided and expenses incurred as well as other tax matters such as inter company transactions. The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Therefore, income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. Moodys is subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions which involve legacy and other tax matters. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of such audits in order to determine the appropriateness of its FIN No. 48 tax liabilities. On January 1, 2007, upon the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company implemented the accounting policy to classify interest related to income taxes as a component of interest expense in the Companys consolidated financial statements and to classify associated penalties, if any, as part of other non operating expenses. Prior to the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company had classified interest related to income taxes and associated penalties as components of income tax expense. In accordance with FIN No. 48, prior period financial statements have not been reclassified for this change. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Upon the initial implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company recorded a reduction of its January 1, 2007 retained earnings of $43.3 million, which is comprised of $32.9 million of tax and accrued interest of $17.3 million ($10.4 million, net of tax). As the determination of FIN No. 48 liabilities and associated interest and penalties requires significant estimates to be made by the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and thus, the eventual outcomes could have a material impact on the Companys net income or financial condition. Other Estimates In addition, there are other accounting estimates within Moodys consolidated financial statements, including recoverability of deferred tax assets, anticipated dividend distributions from non U.S. subsidiaries and valuation of investments in affiliates. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on Moodys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact Moodys. Operating Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. See Reorganization and New Segments section below. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and MKMV. Moodys Investors Service consisted of (i) four rating groups structured finance, corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign risk, and public finance that generate revenue principally from the assignment of credit ratings to issuers and issues of fixed income obligations in the debt markets, and (ii) research, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of investor oriented credit information research, data and other analytical tools that are produced principally by the rating groups. For presentation purposes, Europe represents Europe, the Middle East and Africa and public finance represents U.S. public finance. Given the dominance of Moodys Investors Service to Moodys overall results, the Company does not separately measure or report corporate expenses, nor are such expenses allocated between the Companys business segments. Accordingly, all corporate expenses are included in operating income of the Moodys Investors Service segment and none have been allocated to the MKMV segment. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services, including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. 21 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Company Results Moodys revenue for 2007 totaled $2,259.0 million, an increase of $221.9 million, or 10.9%, from $2,037.1 million for the same period in 2006. The main contributors to this growth were the corporate finance and research lines of business, which increased $85.3 million, or 22.4%, and $69.8 million, or 27.4%, respectively. MKMV revenue contributed 5.4% of the Companys year over year growth, driven by the software and risk subscriptions businesses. Revenue in the United States was $1,361.8 million in 2007, an increase of $84.0 million, or 6.6%, from $1,277.8 million in 2006. Corporate finance and research revenue achieved strong growth of $51.7 million and $33.8 million, respectively, partially offset by a $29.4 million decline in structured finance, resulting from the significant slow down in the credit securitization markets. International revenue was $897.2 million in 2007, an increase of $137.9 million, or 18.2%, from $759.3 million in 2006. Revenue from the structured finance, research and corporate finance lines of business contributed approximately $39 million, $36 million and $34 million, respectively, to the increase. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $39 million of international revenue growth. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the Plan) in response to the Companys reorganization and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors, as more fully described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. A restructuring charge of $50.0 million was recorded in 2007, which consisted of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs, and $4.1 million for contract termination costs. Moodys operating and selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) of $1,035.1 million in 2007 were $136.4 million, or 15.2%, more than $898.7 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately 70% of total operating and SG&A expenses, representing approximately $77 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of approximately 3,500 employees during the year ended December 31, 2007 was approximately 13% higher than during 2006. This increase reflects the impact of hiring from late 2006 and the first half of 2007 to support business growth mainly in the U.S., Asian and European ratings businesses offset by a partial completion of the workforce reductions relating to the restructuring actions implemented in the fourth quarter of 2007. The table below shows Moodys global staffing by operating segment and geographic area at December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,869 1,284 3,153 1,843 1,106 2,949 Moodys KMV 297 122 419 304 97 401 Total 2,166 1,406 3,572 2,147 1,203 3,350 Operating expenses were $584.0 million in 2007, an increase of $44.6 million, or 8.3%, from $539.4 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised approximately 77% of the growth, reflecting normal salary increases coupled with higher staffing levels compared to prior year, partially offset by lower incentive compensation. The staffing level increase reflects hiring in the first half of 2007 to support business growth, primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount increased by approximately 14% over 2006. Non compensation expenses of $96.8 million increased $10.2 million primarily from professional service costs associated with technology investments. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $451.1 million in 2007, an increase of $91.8 million, or 25.5%, from $359.3 million in 2006. Compensation expense of $238.8 million increased $46.5 million, or 24.2%, from 2006 reflecting increased staffing levels in the corporate compliance and technology support functions coupled with the increase in stock based compensation. Non compensation expense of $212.3 million was up $45.3 million, or 27.1%, over 2006 due to higher rent and occupancy costs of $39.3 million, or 88.2%, over 2006 primarily related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7 World Trade Center (7WTC) and an increase in professional service costs of $21.6 million relating to technology investment spending and legal matters. 22 Operating income in 2007 includes a $50.0 million restructuring charge consisting of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs and $4.1 million for contract termination costs, as further discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating income of $1,131.0 million decreased $128.5 million, or 10.2%, from $1,259.5 million in 2006, which reflects approximately $21 million of foreign currency translation gains. Moodys operating margin for 2007 was 50.1% compared to 61.8% in 2006. The restructuring charge in 2007 decreased the 2007 margin by approximately 220 basis points while the gain on building sale increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Interest and other non operating (expense) income, net was $(14.3) million in 2007 compared with $1.0 million in 2006. Interest expense on borrowings was $40.7 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase was due to borrowings under the Companys credit facilities, the issuance of the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes in September 2007, and issuance under the Companys commercial paper program which was established in October 2007. Interest expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities was $21.5 million in 2007. In 2006, before Fin No. 48 became effective, interest on tax liabilities was reported as part of income tax expense, net of Federal tax benefit. There was also a $17.5 million reduction of accrued interest expense and a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income both for amounts due to New D&B related to the Amortization Expense Deductions legacy tax matter more fully described in Contingencies Legacy Contingencies, below. Interest income earned on short term investments and invested cash balances was $19.3 million and $18.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Foreign exchange gains (losses) were immaterial in both 2007 and 2006. Moodys effective tax rate was 37.2% in 2007 compared to 40.2% in 2006. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates included benefits of $27.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally in 2007, there was a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income, which was not taxable, related to legacy tax matters. These matters favorably impacted the Companys 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates by approximately 295 basis points and 30 basis points, respectively. Net income was $701.5 million in 2007, a decrease of $52.4 million, or 7.0%, from $753.9 million in 2006. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2007 were $2.63 and $2.58, respectively, compared to $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, for 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge in 2007, the gain on building sale in 2006 and legacy tax adjustments in both years, net income increased $21.8 million, or 3.3%, and earnings per share increased $0.25, or 11.1%, to $2.50 per share. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $2,104.2 million, up $209.9 million, or 11.1%, from $1,894.3 million in 2006. Ratings revenue accounted for $140.1 million of the increase, with growth largely driven by global corporate finance, and financial institutions. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $32 million of ratings revenue growth. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $465.4 million in 2007, an increase of $85.3 million, or 22.4%, from $380.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $51.7 million, or 21.0%, primarily due to exceptionally strong growth in speculative grade and bank loans in the first half of 2007 offset by revenue declines in the second half of 2007 compared to the second half of 2006. In the second half of 2007, U.S. investment grade revenue increased 57.0% compared to a 7.7% increase in the first half of 2007. International revenue of $167.1 million increased $33.6 million, or 25.2%, largely driven by growth in European investment grade and speculative grade bond issuance as well as a 71.2% increase in bank loan revenue. Global financial institutions revenue was $303.1 million, up $36.3 million, or 13.6%, from $266.8 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $15.1 million, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $165.3 million grew $21.2 million, or 14.7%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $890.6 million for 2007, an increase of 1.1%, or $10.0 million, from $880.6 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S., decreased $29.4 million, or 5.0%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half, largely from the derivatives and commercial mortgage backed securities sectors, was offset by significant revenue declines in the second half of 2007 principally in residential and commercial mortgage backed securities as well as derivatives due to the 23 credit market turmoil which began early in the third quarter of 2007. Outside the U.S., revenue of $328.5 million increased $39.4 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.7 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. International growth was 40.4% in the first half of 2007 offset by a significant slowdown in the second half of 2007 due to the credit market turmoil. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $16 million. Public finance revenue was $120.8 million, an increase of $8.5 million, or 7.6%, from $112.3 million in 2006. Revenue growth was driven by a $4.4 million, or 12.4% increase in the housing, health care, higher education, and infrastructure sectors as well as a $3.0 million, or 11.3%, increase in the municipal structured products sector. Global research revenue of $324.3 million was $69.8 million, or 27.4%, higher than the $254.5 million in 2006, as a result of strong sales of core research products and analytic services to new and existing customers. U.S. revenue of $176.0 million increased $33.8 million, or 23.8%, and international revenue increased $36.0 million, or 32.1%, with 77.5% reflecting growth in Europe. Moodys Investors Service operating, and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $922.1 million, an increase of $133.0 million, or 16.9%, from $789.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised the largest portion of the 2007 expense growth, accounting for 50.8% of the increase from 2006, reflecting normal salary increases, higher staffing primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount grew approximately 16% from 2006, as well as in the corporate compliance and technology support functions. Stock based compensation expense also contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included increased rent and occupancy costs of $39.8 million related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs of approximately $25 million primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal expenses. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $17 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,105.4 million in 2007 was down $137.5 million, or 11.1%, from $1,242.9 million in 2006. Operating income included a $45.6 million restructuring charge in 2007 and a $160.6 million gain on the sale of the former corporate headquarters building in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge and gain on building sale, operating income increased $68.7 million, or 6.3%, with foreign currency translation contributing approximately $22 million of the growth. Moodys KMV Revenue at MKMV in 2007 was $154.8 million, up $12.0 million, or 8.4%, from $142.8 million in 2006. Global revenue was driven by growth in annualized risk subscriptions and software license fees of $8.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively. U.S. revenue of $66.8 million increased 6.9% from $62.5 million in 2006. Outside the U.S., revenue increased $7.7 million, or 9.6%, over prior year. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses in 2007 including the $4.4 million restructuring charge, were $117.4 million, an increase of $7.8 million, or 7.1%, from $109.6 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased $9.9 million primarily reflecting normal salary increases coupled with increased staffing as well as an approximate $2 million reduction of certain employee obligations reflected in 2006. MKMV operating income was $25.6 million for 2007, an increase of $9.0 million, or 54.2%, compared with $16.6 million in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge, MKMVs 2007 operating income increased $13.4 million, or 80.7%, from 2006. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Total Company Results Moodys revenue in 2006 was $2,037.1 million, an increase of $305.5 million, or 17.6%, from $1,731.6 million for the same period of 2005. Moodys achieved strong revenue growth above the rate of the overall corporation in global structured finance, corporate finance and research, and below the corporate rate in financial institutions and MKMV, with a decline in revenue from public finance. 24 Revenue in the United States was $1,277.8 million in 2006, an increase of $192.4 million, or 17.7%, from $1,085.4 million in 2005. Approximately 80% of the U.S. growth was driven by structured finance and corporate finance, reflecting strong issuance across most structured asset classes as well as corporate bonds and bank loans. Research, financial institutions and MKMV contributed to year over year growth as well. Moodys international revenue was $759.3 million in 2006, an increase of $113.1 million, or 17.5%, from $646.2 million in 2005. International ratings revenue grew approximately $96 million versus the prior year, with about 80% of the growth in Europe where credit derivatives, corporate finance, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors were primary drivers of growth. European research and MKMV contributed to growth as well. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Moodys operating and SG&A expenses of $898.7 million in 2006 were $141.9 million, or 18.8%, more than $756.8 million in 2005. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately $103 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of more than 3,100 employees during the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately 15% higher than during the same prior year period. This increase includes hiring to support business growth mainly in the U.S. and European ratings businesses. The table below shows Moodys staffing at year end 2006 compared with year end 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,843 1,106 2,949 1,600 919 2,519 Moodys KMV 304 97 401 303 74 377 Total 2,147 1,203 3,350 1,903 993 2,896 Operating expenses were $539.4 million in 2006, an increase of $86.5 million, or 19.1%, from $452.9 million in 2005. The largest contributor to this increase was growth in compensation and benefits expense of approximately $76 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing and higher stock based compensation expense. Moodys global staffing reflected hiring primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses to support business growth. Stock based compensation expense increased $16.3 million year over year due, in part, to the final year of phasing in of expense over the current four year equity plan vesting period and the effects of a higher share price on the value of the 2006 equity grants versus 2005, offset by additional expense recorded in the first quarter of 2005 related to the accelerated expensing of equity grants for employees at or near retirement eligibility. Expenses for 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $359.3 million in 2006, an increase of $55.4 million, or 18.2%, from $303.9 million in 2005. Year over year expense increases included growth in compensation and benefits of $27 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing in technology support and finance functions and $6.0 million related to stock based compensation as discussed above. Additional 2006 expenses included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $12 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Operating income of $1,259.5 million in 2006, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006, rose $319.9 million, or 34.0%, from $939.6 million in 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, operating income increased 17.0%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year over year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys operating margin for 2006 was 61.8% compared to 54.3% in 2005. The gain on the sale of the building increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Moodys reported $1.0 million of interest and other non operating income (expense), net in 2006 compared with ($4.9) million in 2005. Interest expense was $15.2 million in 2006 and $21.0 million in 2005. The amounts included $14.9 million and $20.9 million of interest expense on Moodys $300 million of notes payable for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest income was $18.2 million in 2006 compared to $26.0 million in 2005. The decrease was attributed to the liquidation of investment portfolios to finance share repurchases. Foreign exchange losses were immaterial in 2006 compared to $8.2 million in 2005. The year over year change was primarily due to the British pound and euro appreciating to the U.S. dollar. Moodys effective tax rate was 40.2% in 2006 compared to 40.0% in 2005. The 2006 and 2005 effective tax rates were reduced by benefits of $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally, Moodys recognized a tax benefit of approximately $3 million related to additional foreign tax credits in the fourth quarter of 2006 and a tax benefit of $3.6 million in 2005 related to the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The 2006 rate was also favorably impacted by approximately 30 basis points due to the settlement of state tax audits. 25 Net income was $753.9 million in 2006, an increase of $193.1 million or 34.4% from $560.8 million in 2005. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2006 were $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, compared to basic and diluted earnings per share of $1.88 and $1.84, respectively, for 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, 2006 net income was $659.8 million, an increase of $99.0 million or 17.7%. Additionally, the gain contributed $0.33 and $0.32 relating to full year basic and diluted earnings per share, respectively. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,894.3 million, up $294.0 million, or 18.4%, from $1,600.3 million in 2005. Ratings revenue accounted for $254.8 million of growth with increased revenue in global structured finance, corporate finance and financial institutions and sovereign risk offsetting a decline in public finance. Double digit growth in research also contributed to the increase in revenue. Foreign currency translation positively impacted revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in revenue. Structured finance revenue was $880.6 million in 2006, an increase of $181.3 million, or 25.9%, from $699.3 million in the same period of 2005. Approximately $111 million of the increase was in the U.S., with the collateralized debt and commercial mortgage backed sectors contributing about 94% of the U.S. increase. Year over year issuance of collateralized loan obligations and cash flow resecuritizations grew, in part, to the increased repackaging of securitized assets such as consumer asset backed and mortgage backed securities, as well as bank loans in collateralized debt obligations. Strong growth in commercial real estate collateralized debt obligation issuance was a key driver of overall commercial mortgage backed issuance. International structured finance revenue grew approximately $70 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $61 million, where credit derivatives, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled approximately 87% of the European growth. Foreign currency translation for structured finance positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $3 million. Corporate finance revenue was $380.1 million in 2006, up $66.3 million, or 21.1%, from $313.8 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 20.8% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. Investment grade bond issuance increased approximately 17% and high yield bond issuance increased approximately 43%, primarily due to significant mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and second lien loan activity. International corporate finance revenue increased approximately $24 million or about 22% due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in global corporate finance revenue. Revenue in the financial institutions and sovereign risk group was $266.8 million in 2006, an increase of $12.2 million or 4.8% from $254.6 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue grew approximately $11 million, principally due to strength in insurance and real estate sectors. Internationally, revenue increased $1.4 million compared to the prior year period. Public finance revenue was $112.3 million in 2006, a decrease of $5.0 million, or 4.3%, from $117.3 million in 2005. Dollar volume issuance in the municipal bond market declined compared to 2005, primarily due to lower refinancing activity. Research revenue of $254.5 million in 2006 was $39.2 million, or 18.2%, higher than $215.3 million in 2005. Revenue grew by approximately $29 million in the U.S. and about $11 million internationally, with Europe accounting for approximately 57% of international growth. Research and analytics services accounted for approximately $17 million of global revenue growth primarily from credit research on the corporate finance, financial institutions and the structured finance related businesses. Revenue from the licensing of Moodys information to financial customers for internal use and redistribution was approximately $57 million in 2006, an increase of approximately $8 million, or about 17% higher than the prior year. Moodys Investors Service operating and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $789.1 million in 2006, an increase of $143.7 million, or 22.3%, from $645.4 million in 2005. The largest contributor to 2006 expenses was growth in compensation and benefits of approximately $110 million reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses and higher stock based compensation expense of $21.4 million. Furthermore, expenses in 2006 included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $11 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Additional increases were due to increased information technology investment spending of approximately $8 million offset by a decrease of approximately $6 million in legal fees. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Additionally, expenses in 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $4 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. 26 Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,242.9 million in 2006 was up $306.6 million or 32.7% from $936.3 million in 2005, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006. Excluding the gain, operating income increased 15.6%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year to year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys KMV MKMV revenue of $142.8 million in 2006 was $11.5 million or 8.8% more than the same period in 2005. MKMVs revenue growth reflected increased demand for credit decision making software and software related maintenance services, which grew approximately 10% or $2.7 million compared to 2005. Growth in subscriptions revenue related to credit risk assessment products grew approximately 5% or $4.9 million compared to prior year and risk services revenue increased approximately $4 million or about 36% compared to prior year. In 2006, international MKMV revenue accounted for 56% of its global revenue. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses were $109.6 million in 2006, a decrease of $1.8 million or 1.6% from $111.4 million in 2005. The 2006 expenses include a total of $3.5 million due to training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses. Additionally, 2006 expenses include a $2.2 million charge recorded in connection with a non income tax matter. The 2005 expenses included approximately $7 million related to severance costs, the write off of capitalized software development and a liability for unpaid overtime due to certain employees. MKMV operating income was $16.6 million for 2006 compared with $3.3 million in 2005. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Reorganization and New Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV, sales of credit research produced by Moodys Investors Service and the production and sales of other products and services, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics (Analytics). The aforementioned reorganization will result in the Company operating in two new reportable segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, beginning in January 2008. The tables below present operating results for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as if the new segment structure described above had been in place as of January 1, 2005. Revenue for MIS and expenses for Analytics includes an intersegment royalty charged to Analytics for the rights to use and distribute content, data and products developed by MIS. Additionally, overhead costs and corporate expenses of the Company, all of which were previously included in the former MIS segment, are allocated to each new segment based on a revenue split methodology. Overhead expenses include costs such as rent and occupancy, information technology and support staff such as finance, human resource, information technology and legal. Eliminations represents intersegment royalty revenue/expense. December 31, 2007 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1835.4 $ 479.1 $ (55.5 ) $ 2,259.0 Operating expenses 759.4 331.2 (55.5 ) 1,035.1 Restructuring charge 41.3 8.7 50.0 Depreciation and amortization 24.0 18.9 42.9 Operating income $ 1,010.7 $ 120.3 $ $ 1,131.0 27 December 31, 2006 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Corporate items/Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,685.6 $ 397.3 $ (45.8 ) $ 2,037.1 Operating expenses 666.1 278.4 (45.8 ) 898.7 Depreciation and amortization 17.3 22.2 39.5 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) (160.6 ) Operating income $ 1,002.2 $ 96.7 $ 160.6 $ 1,259.5 December 31, 2005 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,425.6 $ 346.7 $ (40.7 ) $ 1,731.6 Operating expenses 554.4 243.1 (40.7 ) 756.8 Depreciation and amortization 15.5 19.7 35.2 Operating income $ 855.7 $ 83.9 $ $ 939.6 The table below presents revenue by line of business within each new segment and the related intra segment realignment: Year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Moodys Investors Service: Structured Finance $ 885.9 $ 883.6 $ 708.7 Corporate Finance 411.5 335.9 277.4 Financial Institutions 261.7 222.1 214.0 Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance 220.8 198.2 184.8 Total third party revenue 1,779.9 1,639.8 1,384.9 Intersegment royalty 55.5 45.8 40.7 Total MIS $ 1,835.4 $ 1,685.6 $ 1,425.6 Moodys Analytics: Subscription 421.5 347.5 305.0 Consulting 18.1 13.5 8.1 Software 39.5 36.3 33.6 Total Analytics 479.1 397.3 346.7 Eliminations (55.5 ) (45.8 ) (40.7 ) Total Moodys Corporation $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 As part of the reorganization there were several realignments within the MIS lines of business. Sovereign and sub sovereign ratings which were previously part of financial institutions; infrastructure/utilities ratings, which were previously part of corporate finance; and project finance, which was previously part of structured finance, were combined with the Public Finance business to form a new line of business called Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance. In addition, real estate investment trust ratings were moved from corporate finance to the structured finance business. Within Moodys Analytics various aspects of the legacy MIS Research business and MKMV business were combined to form the subscriptions, software and consulting businesses. The subscriptions business includes credit and economic research, data and analytical models that are sold on a subscription basis; the software business includes license and maintenance fees for credit risk software products, and the consulting business includes professional services and credit training associated with risk modeling, credit scorecard development, and other specialized analytical projects, as well as credit education services that are typically sold on a per engagement basis. 28 The following is a discussion of the results of operations of the new segments, excluding the aforementioned intersegment royalty revenue and related expense, as if they were operating as of January 1, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $1,779.9 million, up $140.1 million, or 8.5%, from $1,639.8 million in 2006. Global corporate finance, financial institutions and the public, project and infrastructure finance business increased $75.6 million, $39.6 million, and $22.6 million, respectively. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $411.5 million in 2007, an increase of 22.5%, from $335.9 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $45.3 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased leveraged loan activities and growth in investment grade bond issuance. International revenue of $141.5 million increased $30.3 million, or 27.2%, largely driven by growth in European bond issuance. Global financial institutions revenue was $261.7 million, up $39.6 million or 17.8% from $222.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $18.9 million, or 18.4%, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $139.7 million grew $20.7 million, or 17.4%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $885.9 million for 2007, an increase of $2.3 million from $883.6 million in 2006. Revenue of $569.6 million in the U.S., decreased $35.5 million, or 5.9%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half of 2007, largely from the credit derivatives and commercial real estate finance sectors, which includes real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, which were offset in the second half of 2007 by declining revenue in the residential mortgage backed securities, derivatives and commercial real estate finance as a result of credit market turmoil which reduced ratable issuance volume. Outside the U.S., revenue of $316.3 million increased $37.7 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.8 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $220.8 million, an increase of $22.6 million, or 11.4%, from $198.2 million in 2006. Revenue from project and infrastructure finance of $76.1 million showed the strongest growth with an increase of $13.5 million or 21.6% over 2006, mostly from within the U.S. Revenue of $144.7 million from the public finance sector, including U.S. public finance, sovereign and sub sovereign, increased $9.1 million, or 6.7%, over prior year driven by growth in combined issuance and new money issuance. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses and a $41.3 million restructuring charge in 2007, were $800.7 million, an increase of $134.6 million, or 20.2%, from $666.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense was the largest contributor to the year over year growth reflecting increased staffing internationally to support business growth, as well as additional headcount in the corporate compliance group. Stock based compensation expense increased year over year primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included an increase in allocated expenses such as increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $955.2 million in 2007 was flat compared to 2006. Excluding the $41.3 million restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $996.5 million increased $40.1 million, or 4.2%, from $956.4 million in 2006. Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $479.1 million, an increase of $81.8 million, or 20.6%, from 2006. U.S. revenue of $242.8 million increased $38.1 million, or 18.6%, and international revenue increased $43.7 million, or 22.7%, with 90.3% of the growth from Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $421.5 million was up $74.0 million, or 21.3%, over $347.5 million in 2006, reflecting continued demand from new and existing customers for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics 29 and other offerings. Software revenue of $39.5 million increased $3.2 million, or 8.8%, from $36.3 million in 2006 primarily from additional license and maintenance fees for credit decisioning and analysis products. Revenue from consulting services grew $4.6 million, or 34.1%, due to increased demand for credit education, risk modeling and scorecard development among customers seeking to implement sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. Operating expenses in 2007 including allocated corporate expenses and the $8.7 million restructuring charge, were $284.4 million, an increase of $51.8 million, or 22.3%, from $232.6 million in 2006. The increase is a result of additional compensation due to headcount growth of 8% and higher sales commission expense resulting from better than expected revenue growth over 2006. It also reflects an increase in allocated expenses due to increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Analytics operating income of $175.8 million in 2007 increased $33.3 million, or 23.4%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Operating income included an $8.7 million restructuring charge in 2007. Excluding the restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $184.5 million increased $42.0 million, or 29.5%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,639.8 million, up $254.9 million or 18.4% from $1,384.9 million in 2005 with global structured and corporate finance accounting for $233.4 million, or 91.6%, of the growth. Structured finance revenue was $883.6 million in 2006, an increase of $174.9 million or 24.7% from $708.7 million in the same period of 2005. Revenue in the U.S. of $605.0 million increased $111.4 million, or 22.6%, with commercial real estate finance, consisting of real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, and credit derivatives contributing $22.2 million and $85.6 million of the increase, respectively. International structured finance revenue grew $63.4 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $58 million, where credit derivatives, commercial real estate finance and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled 91.7% of the European growth. Corporate finance revenue was $335.9 million in 2006, up $58.5 million or 21.1% from $277.4 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 22.3% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. International revenue of $111.2 million increased $17.5 million, or 18.7%, due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Financial institutions revenue was $222.1 million in 2006, an increase of $8.1 million or 3.8% from $214.0 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue of $103.0 million grew $8.2 million, or 8.6%, principally due to strength in the insurance sector. Internationally, revenue was relatively flat compared to 2006 with decreases in Europe being offset by increases in Asia and other international locations. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $198.2 million in 2006, an increase of $13.4 million or 7.3% from $184.8 million in 2005, reflecting good growth in the project and infrastructure sectors internationally. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $666.1 million in 2006, an increase of $111.7 million, or 20.1%, from $554.4 million in 2005. The increase is due to incentive compensation reflecting improved financial results over prior year, additional salaries and benefits expense relating to higher global staffing to support the business growth. Non compensation expense increased over 2006 reflecting additional travel, training and recruiting, as well as an increase in professional service fees associated with technology investment spending. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $956.4 million in 2006 was up $141.4 million, or 17.3%, from $815.0 million in 2005 mostly driven by the growth in revenue. 30 Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $397.3 million, an increase of $50.6 million, or 14.6%, from $346.7 million in 2005. U.S. revenue of $204.7 million increased $33.1 million, or 19.3%, and international revenue increased $17.6 million, or 10.1%, with 63.1% reflecting growth in Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $347.5 million was up $42.5 million, or 13.9%, over $305.0 million in 2005, benefiting from higher sales of core research and data services coupled with new customer growth and lower attrition. Software revenue of $36.3 million increased $2.7 million, or 8.0%, from $33.6 million in 2005 reflecting greater demand for risk products and credit decision making software and related maintenance services. Revenue from consulting services was $13.5 million, an increase of $5.4 million, or 66.7%, from $8.1 million in 2005 reflecting an increase in the risk management needs of customers and the completion of contractual milestones. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $232.6 million in 2006, an increase of $30.2 million, or 14.9%, from $202.4 million in 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits relating to sales commissions from higher revenue coupled with additional staffing over 2005. The increase also reflects additional training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses to support business growth, as well as a $2.2 million charge in 2006 relating to a non income tax related matter. Market Risk Moodys maintains operations in 27 countries outside the United States. Approximately 33% of the Companys revenue was billed in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. Approximately 42% of the Companys expenses were incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. As such, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 35% of Moodys assets were located outside the U.S. Of Moodys aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $426.3 million at December 31, 2007, approximately $348 million was located outside the United States (with $104 million and $88 million in Luxembourg and the U.K., respectively), making the Company susceptible to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Additionally, all of Moodys aggregate short term investments of $14.7 million were located outside the United States. The effects of changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar on assets and liabilities of non U.S. operations with non U.S. functional currencies are charged or credited to the cumulative translation adjustment account in shareholders equity. Moodys cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality investment grade securities within and outside the United States. The Company manages its credit risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market mutual funds and issuers of high grade commercial paper. Short term investments primarily consist of high quality investment grade corporate bonds in Korea. The Company manages its credit risk exposure on cash equivalents and short term investments by limiting the amount it can invest with any single issuer. A portion of the Companys future billings and related revenue is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily related to the euros and British pound. Under the Companys current foreign exchange hedging program, the Company hedges a portion of foreign exchange currency risk for the purpose of reducing volatility in the Companys cash flows related to future euro and British pound billings and related revenue. Foreign exchange options are currently utilized to hedge these exposures and have maturities between one and fifteen months. As of December 2007 all contracts were set to expire at various times through March 2009 and were deemed to be highly effective under SFAS No. 133 and related accounting pronouncements. No credit losses are anticipated as the counterparties to these agreements are major financial institutions. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Companys outstanding options was recorded as an asset of $2.3 million consisting of the following notional amounts: Currency Pair of Option* Notional amount * GBP/USD &pound; 7.9 million EUR/USD 16.7 million EUR/GBP 61.5 million * GBP(&pound;) Great Britain pounds; EUR() euros; USD($) U.S. dollars 31 Unrealized gains or losses will be recorded in other comprehensive income and, once realized, the gains or losses will be recognized as an adjustment to revenue when the billings are recognized in revenue. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the exposure to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates on Moodys foreign exchange options. A hypothetical 10% favorable change in the overall option currency portfolio would result in a gain of approximately $10 million as of December 31, 2007. The maximum loss related to an adverse change in the option currency portfolio would be $2.3 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow The Company is currently financing its operations, capital expenditures and share repurchases through cash flow from operations and from financing activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $984.0 million, $752.5 million and $707.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The Company borrowed $847.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 increased by $231.5 million compared with 2006. A decrease in net income of $52.4 million reduced cash provided by operating activities. The increase in stock based compensation expense positively impacted cash flow from operations by $13.1 million compared to net income. Accounts receivable decreased approximately 7% in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with an increase of approximately 13% for the year ended December 31, 2006 increasing cash flow from operations by $79.1 million compared to 2006. The impact on cash flows of excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans decreased to $52.2 million from $103.2 million in 2006 due to fewer stock option exercises in 2007 compared with 2006. The favorable non cash resolution of a legacy tax matter in the second quarter of 2007 negatively impacted operating cash flow by $52.3 million compared to net income. Operating cash flow in 2006 included a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys former headquarters building. The $67.2 million reduction in cash flows from changes in other current assets is primarily due to the receipt of approximately $16 million from New D&B related to issuer based stock compensation tax deductions in 2006 and an approximate $40 million overpayment of 2007 state income taxes offset by an $8.5 million increase related to a receivable from the IRS for a legacy tax matter classified as a current asset in 2007. Furthermore, the $55.5 million change in cash flows associated with other assets is primarily due to a deposit made in the first quarter of 2006 of approximately $40 million with the IRS relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating cash flow decreased by $87.5 million due to reductions in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. This is primarily due to a decrease in net accrued income taxes of approximately $76.5 million, decreases in accrued incentive compensation of approximately $27 million and decreases in accounts payable of approximately $17 million, due to timing of payments offset by approximately $33 million in restructuring liabilities. Increases in FIN No. 48 and other non current tax and related liabilities increased cash flow from operations by approximately $83 million. Additionally, increases in the deferred rent liability contributed approximately $47 million to cash flow from operations relating primarily to the free rent period and tenant allowance on the 7WTC lease. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 increased by $44.6 million compared with 2005. Growth in net income contributed $193.1 million to cash provided by operating activities. The 2006 cash flows include a decrease relating to excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans of $103.2 million that are now classified as a cash flow from financing activities as required under SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation was presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an operating cash flow, along with other tax cash flows. The operating cash flow includes a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys headquarters building. The cash proceeds are reported as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. The change in accounts receivable is attributable to increases in revenue offset by improved collection. Additionally, Moodys deposited approximately $40 million with the IRS in the first quarter of 2006 relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. This deposit was recorded in other assets. Tax payments increased by $53 million in 2006 versus 2005 offset by increases in income taxes payable due to growth in pre tax net income. An increase in deferred revenue increased cash flow from operations by $28 million which is due to increased volume in annual and initial fees in both the ratings and research businesses. Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities was ($124.7) million, $116.1 million and ($150.4) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net maturities (investments) in short term investments, net of purchases, totaled $61.5 million, $22.5 million and ($88.9) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Capital expenditures, primarily for leasehold improvements and internal use software, totaled $181.8 million, $31.1 million and $31.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 increase relates primarily to the build out of the Companys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. The 2006 spending on acquisitions 32 was $39.2 million, which related primarily to the purchase of a 49% share in China Cheng Xin International Credit Rating Co. Ltd and the acquisition of Wall Street Analytics, Inc., net of cash acquired. The 2005 spending on acquisitions primarily related to the acquisition of Economy.com, net of cash acquired, and a contingent payment made in the second quarter of 2005 related to Korea Investors Service. The net proceeds received from the sale of the Companys former Corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006 were $163.9 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $861.5 million, $965.2 million and $666.5 million for years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company borrowed $547.4 million under its commercial paper program in 2007 to support share repurchases, build out of the new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. Additionally, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction $300.0 million aggregate principal Series 2007 1 Notes in the third quarter of 2007. Spending for share repurchases totaled $1,738.4 million, $1,093.6 million and $691.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Dividends paid were $85.2 million, $79.5 million and $60.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in dividends reflects a quarterly dividend paid of $0.08 per share 2007 versus a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in 2006 and $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in the subsequent quarters per share in 2005. These amounts were offset in part by proceeds from employee stock based compensation plans of $65.9 million, $105.3 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans were $52.2 million and $103.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decreases in proceeds from stock plans and the excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation plans is due primarily to a decrease in stock option exercise activity in 2007 compared to the same period in 2006. Future Cash Requirements The Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months and expects to have positive operating cash flow for fiscal year 2008. Cash requirements for periods beyond the next twelve months will depend, among other things, on the Companys profitability and its ability to manage working capital requirements. The Company currently expects to use a significant portion of its cash flow to continue its share repurchase program. The Company implemented a systematic share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2005 through an SEC Rule 10b5 1 program. Moodys may also purchase opportunistically when conditions warrant. The Companys intent is to return capital to shareholders in a way that serves their long term interests. As a result, Moodys share repurchase activity will continue to vary from quarter to quarter. The Company may borrow from various sources to fund share repurchases. On June 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program of which Moodys has approximately $24 million remaining at December 31, 2007. On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase program that the Company will begin utilizing upon completion of the 2006 authority. There is no established expiration date for either of these authorizations. At December 31,2007 the Company had $551.9 million, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million, of outstanding commercial paper and issued $300.0 million of 6.06% Series 2007 1 Notes, as described in the Indebtedness section below, to support share repurchases, the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. The Company entered into an operating lease agreement (the Lease) commencing on October 20, 2006 with 7 World Trade Center, LLC for 589,945 square feet of an office building located at 7WTC at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, which is serving as Moodys new headquarters. The Lease has an initial term of approximately 21 years with a total of 20 years of renewal options. The total base rent of the lease over its initial 21 year term is approximately $536 million including rent credits from the World Trade Center Rent Reduction Program promulgated by the Empire State Development Corporation. On March 28, 2007, the lease agreement was amended for the Company to lease an additional 78,568 square feet at 7WTC. The additional base rent is approximately $106 million over a 20 year term. The Company plans to incur approximately $21 million of costs to complete the build out its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC over the next year. On October 24, 2007, the Company announced a restructuring plan that would reduce global headcount, terminate certain technology contracts and consolidate certain corporate functions in response to the Companys reorganization announced on August 7, 2007 and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors. Included in the $50.0 million restructuring charge is $7.0 million of non cash settlements relating to pension curtailments and stock based compensation award modifications for certain terminated employees. During 2007, the Company made cash payments of $1.8 million relating to the $43.0 million cash component of the restructuring liability and expects cash outlays of approximately $31 million and $2 million during 2008 and 2009, respectively. The remaining liability of $8.1 million relates to annuity payments that will be made in connection with the Companys 33 pension and other post retirement benefit plans for certain terminated employees, which will commence when the employees reach retirement age beginning in 2009 and continue until all payments have been made. The Company also intends to use a portion of its cash flow to pay dividends. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at this rate, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company will from time to time consider cash outlays for acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses, products, services and technologies. The Company may also be required to make future cash outlays to pay to New D&B its share of potential liabilities related to the legacy tax and legal contingencies that are discussed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Contingencies. These potential cash outlays could be material and might affect liquidity requirements, and they could cause the Company to pursue additional financing. There can be no assurance that financing to meet cash requirements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. Indebtedness The following table summarizes total indebtedness as of December 31: 2007 2006 Notes payable: Senior notes, due 2015, 4.98% $ 300.0 $ 300.0 Senior notes, due 2017, 6.06% 300.0 Commercial paper, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million 551.9 Total 1,151.9 300.0 Less: current portion (551.9 ) Total long term debt $ 600.0 $ 300.0 Notes Payable On September 7, 2007, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.06% Series 2007 1 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017 (Series 2007 1 Notes) pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement (2007 Agreement). The Series 2007 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 6.06%, payable semi annually on March 7 and September 7 of each year. Under the terms of the 2007 Agreement, the Company may, from time to time within five years, in its sole discretion, issue additional series of senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million pursuant to one or more supplements to the 2007 Agreement. The Company may prepay the Series 2007 1 Notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a prepayment premium based on the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled payments, over the prepaid principal (Make Whole Amount). The 2007 Agreement contains covenants that limit the ability of the Company, and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: enter into transactions with affiliates, dispose of assets, incur or create liens, enter into any sale leaseback transactions, or merge with any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets. The Company must also not permit its total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio to exceed 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement (2005 Agreement) and issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Series 2005 1 Senior Unsecured Notes (Series 2005 1 Notes). The Series 2005 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.98%, payable semi annually on March 30 and September 30. The proceeds from the sale of the Series 2005 1 Notes were used to refinance $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding 7.61% Senior Notes which matured on September 30, 2005. In the event that Moodys pays all, or part, of the Series 2005 1 Notes in advance of their maturity (the Prepaid Principal), such prepayment will be subject to a penalty based on the Make Whole Amount. The Series 2005 1 Notes are subject to certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreements. 34 Commercial Paper On October 3, 2007, the Company entered into a commercial paper program (the Program) on a private placement basis under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes (the CP Notes) up to a maximum amount outstanding at any time of $1.0 billion. Amounts available under the Program may be re borrowed. The Program is supported by the Companys 2007 Facility (see Credit Facilities section below), if at any time funds are not available on favorable terms under the Program. The maturities of the CP Notes will vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The CP Notes will be sold at a discount from par or, alternatively, will be sold at par and bear interest at rates that will vary based upon market conditions at the time of the issuance. The rates of interest will depend on whether the CP Notes will be a fixed or floating rate. The interest on a floating rate may be based on the following: (a) certificate of deposit rate; (b) commercial paper rate; (c) the federal funds rate; (d) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR); (e) prime rate; (f) treasury rate; or (g) such other base rate as may be specified in a supplement. The Program contains certain events of default including, among other things: non payment of principal, interest or fees; violation of covenants; invalidity of any loan document; material judgments; and bankruptcy and insolvency events, subject in certain instances to cure periods. Credit Facilities On September 28, 2007, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion five year senior, unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2007 Facility), expiring in September 2012, which replaces both the $500.0 million Interim Facility, which was set to expire in February 2008 as well as the $500.0 million five year revolving credit facility entered into on September 1, 2004 and scheduled to expire in September 2009. The 2007 Facility will serve, in part, to support the commercial paper program discussed above. Interest on borrowings is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 16.0 to 40.0 basis points of the facility amount depending on the Companys ratio of total indebtedness to EBITDA (Earnings Coverage Ratio). The Company also pays quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the 2007 Facility. The quarterly fees for the 2007 Facility can range from 4.0 to 10.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also pays a utilization fee of 5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeds 50% of the total facility. The 2007 Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreement. The 2007 Facility also contains financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain an Earnings Coverage Ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the 2007 Facility. On August 8, 2007, the Company entered into an interim loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million that was to expire on February 8, 2008 (the Interim Facility). Interest on borrowings was payable at rates that were based on LIBOR plus a premium that could range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points of the Interim Facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the Interim Facility. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the Interim Facility and repaid the $100.0 million outstanding balance. On September 1, 2004, Moodys entered into a five year senior, unsecured bank revolving credit facility (the 2004 Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $160.0 million that was scheduled to expire in September 2009. Interest on the borrowings under the 2004 Facility was payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio, as defined in the related agreement. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeded 50% of the total facility. In October 2006, Moodys amended the 2004 Facility by increasing the limit on sale proceeds resulting from a sale leaseback transaction of its former corporate headquarters building from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. Additionally, the restriction on liens to secure indebtedness related to the building sale was also increased from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. The Company also increased the expansion feature of the 2004 Facility from $80.0 million to $340.0 million, subject to obtaining commitments for the incremental capacity at the time of draw down from the existing lenders. In April 2007, after receipt of all necessary approvals relating to the execution of the expansion feature, borrowing capacity under the 2004 Facility was increased to $500.0 million. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of the 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the 2004 Facility and repaid the $400.0 million outstanding balance. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all covenants contained within the note agreements and the 2007 Facility described above. 35 Interest (expense) income, net Interest (expense) income, net consists of: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Income $ 19.3 $ 18.2 $ 26.0 Expense on borrowings (40.7 ) (15.2 ) (21.0 ) Expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities (21.5 ) Reversal of interest (a) 17.5 Capitalized 1.1 Interest (expense) income, net $ (24.3 ) $ 3.0 $ 5.0 (a) Represents a reversal of accrued interest related to the favorable resolution of a legacy tax matter, as further discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Interest paid on all borrowings was $32.5 million, $14.9 million and $22.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Management may consider pursuing additional long term financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for operations, share repurchase and other strategic opportunities, which would result in higher financing costs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Moodys did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities where Moodys is the primary beneficiary, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, Moodys is not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if it had engaged in such relationships. Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due under the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less Than 1Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Over 5Years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 1,071.1 $ 72.6 $ 113.7 $ 105.3 $ 779.5 Notes payable (2) 910.6 33.2 66.2 66.2 745.0 Purchase obligations (3) 39.0 30.1 7.9 1.0 Borrowings under commercial paper program (4) 552.6 552.6 Capital lease obligations 4.5 1.7 2.8 Other (5) 59.9 2.6 12.1 9.2 36.0 Total (6) $ 2,637.7 $ 692.8 $ 202.7 $ 181.7 $ 1,560.5 (1) Includes rent payments relating to the 165,000 square foot, 17.5 year operating lease agreement entered into on February 6, 2008 to occupy six floors of an office tower in the Canary Wharf section of London, England. The Company will begin making rent payments in March 2011. (2) Includes $9.3 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2007 and $301.3 million of interest that will accrue and be due from January 1, 2008 through September 30, 2015 and 2017, when the Series 2005 1 Notes and the Series 2007 1 Notes mature, respectively. (3) Purchase obligations include approximately $21 million, excluding approximately $0.8 million of accrued liabilities, related to the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. Purchase obligations also include contracts for professional services, data processing and telecommunication services, and data back up facilities. (4) Includes $1.3 million of interest related to CP Notes outstanding under its commercial paper program at December 31, 2007 that will be due and paid at various times through December 31, 2008. As of February 27, 2008, the Company had approximately $746 million of CP Notes outstanding under the Program. See Indebtedness for further information. 36 (5) Includes $59.9 million of projected benefit payments relating to the Companys unfunded Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefit Plans described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. (6) The table above does not include the Companys net long term tax liabilities of $118.3 million, since the expected cash outflow of such amounts by period cannot be reasonably estimated. 2008 Outlook Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including Moodys KMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys new initiatives in fixed income pricing and valuations will also be captured within Moodys Analytics. Moodys outlook for 2008 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors, including interest rates, corporate profitability and business investment spending, merger and acquisition activity, consumer spending, residential mortgage borrowing and refinancing activity, securitization levels and capital markets issuance. There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and, if actual conditions differ from these assumptions, Moodys results for the year may differ from our current outlook. For Moodys overall, full year 2008 revenue is expected to decline in the low double digit percent range. This decline assumes foreign currency translation in 2008 at current exchange rates. The Company anticipates a weak first half of 2008 with improvement in market liquidity and issuance conditions later in the year. Under this scenario, Moodys first half 2008 performance is likely to reflect unusually weak market conditions, as well as challenging year on year comparisons against the first half of 2007 when the Company delivered record performance. The Company expects the full year 2008 operating margin to decline to the mid to high forties percent range, due primarily to lower ratings revenue. Full year expenses are expected to decrease approximately 5%, primarily due to the 2007 restructuring charge of $50.0 million, as well as expense savings from the restructuring actions, partially offset by investments in the growth areas of our business. Earnings per share for 2008 are projected in a range from $2.17 to $2.25, which reflects the estimated impact of share buy backs under the Companys share repurchase program. For the global Moodys Investors Service business, the Company expects revenue for the full year 2008 to decline in the mid to high teens percent range. Within the U.S., the Company projects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the mid twenties percent range for the full year 2008. In the U.S. structured finance business, Moodys expects revenue for the year to decline in the low to mid forties percent range, reflecting double digit percent declines in most asset classes, led by residential mortgage backed securities and credit derivatives ratings. In the U.S. corporate finance business, the Company expects revenue to decrease in the low teens percent range for the year driven by declines across all asset classes. In both the U.S. financial institutions and public, project and infrastructure finance sectors, Moodys projects revenue in 2008 to grow in the low single digit percent range. Outside the U.S. the Company expects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the low single digit percent range. Good growth from rating financial institutions; public, project and infrastructure finance; and corporate securities is expected to be more than offset by a decline in structured finance ratings revenue, primarily in Europe. For Moodys Analytics, the Company expects revenue growth in the mid teens percent range. In the U.S., growth is projected to be in the low teens percent range while outside the U.S., revenue is expected to increase in the high teens percent range. Growth in the subscription businesses is expected in the mid teens range, reflecting continued demand for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics, and the impact of our newly formed pricing and valuation business. In the consulting business, Moodys anticipates very strong growth, reflecting a robust pipeline of professional services engagements and credit training projects. There is considerable demand for Moodys expertise in credit education, risk modeling, and scorecard development as customers implement more sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. In the software business, the Company expects revenue to be flat versus 2007, as customers begin to migrate to new generation software platforms. 37 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value, and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is expected to increase the consistency of fair value measurements and applies only to those measurements that are already required or permitted to be measured at fair value by other accounting standards. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 2 (FSP FAS 157 2), which partially defers the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company has implemented the deferral provisions of FSP FAS 157 2 and as a result has partially implemented the provisions of SFAS No. 157 as of January 1, 2008. The partial implementation of SFAS 157 does not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations and the Company will apply, as of January 1, 2009, the provisions of SFAS No, 157 to its non financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination and not subsequently remeasured at fair value, non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value for a goodwill impairment assessment, nonfinancial long lived assets measured at fair value for an asset impairment assessment, and asset retirement obligations initially measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards which require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each reporting period. Items eligible for fair value election include recognized financial assets and liabilities such as equity method investments and investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values, written loan commitments, and certain warranties and insurance contracts where a warrantor or insurer is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, the election must be applied to individual instruments with certain restrictions, is irrevocable and must be applied to an entire instrument. Any upfront costs and fees related to the item elected for fair value must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred. At the implementation date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the implementation of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2008. The Company is currently determining the impact, if any, that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No.141R). SFAS No. 141R extends its applicability to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses and establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non controlling interest in the acquiree, and the goodwill acquired. SFAS 141R also expands disclosure requirements to improve the statement users abilities to evaluate the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of implementing SFAS No. 141R will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No.160). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parents ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS No. 160 also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners and requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be reported as equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of implementing SFAS No. 160 will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Contingencies From time to time, Moodys is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation that are incidental to the Companys business, including claims based on ratings assigned by Moodys. Moodys is also subject to ongoing tax audits in the normal course of business. Management periodically assesses the Companys liabilities and contingencies based upon the latest information available. 38 Moodys discloses material pending legal proceedings, other than routine litigation incidental to Moodys business, material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities and other pending matters that it may determine to be appropriate. For matters, except those related to income taxes, where it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company has recorded liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and periodically adjusts these as appropriate. When sufficient uncertainties exist, related to the outcome and or the amount or range of loss, management does not record a liability but discloses the contingency if significant. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities accordingly. For income tax matters, the Company employs the prescribed methodology of FIN No. 48, implemented as of January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained, based on its technical merits, as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities and is cooperating with those inquiries. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described below, in the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, although it is possible that the effect could be material to the Companys consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Legacy Contingencies Moodys continues to have exposure to certain potential liabilities assumed in connection with the 2000 Distribution (Legacy Contingencies). The following description of the relationships among Moodys, New D&B and their predecessor entities is important in understanding the Legacy Contingencies that relate to tax matters (Legacy Tax Matters). In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, ACNielsen Corporation and Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant). In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into two separate public companies: Old D&B and R.H. Donnelley Corporation. During 1998, Cognizant separated into two separate public companies: IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (NMR). In September 2000, Old D&B separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moodys, as further described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in the normal course of business, including through tax free restructurings of both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to normal review by tax authorities. Old D&B and its predecessors also entered into a series of agreements covering the sharing of any liabilities for payment of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on certain tax matters, and certain other potential tax liabilities, all as described in such agreements. Further, in connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moodys have agreed on the financial responsibility for any potential liabilities related to Legacy Tax Matters. Settlement agreements were executed with the IRS in 2005 regarding Legacy Tax Matters for the years 1989 1990 and 1993 1996. As of December 31, 2007, the Company continues to carry a liability of $1.8 million with respect to these matters. With respect to these settlement agreements, Moodys and New D&B believe that IMS Health and NMR did not pay their full share of the liability to the IRS pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements among the parties. Moodys and New D&B paid these amounts to the IRS on their behalf, and have been unable to resolve this dispute with IMS Health and NMR. As a result, Moodys and New D&B have commenced arbitration proceedings against IMS Health and NMR to collect a total of approximately $11 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1989 1990 matter. Moodys and New D&B may also commence an arbitration proceeding to collect a total of $14.5 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1993 1996 matter. Moodys cannot predict the outcome of these matters with any certainty. Amortization Expense Deductions and 1997 2002 IRS Deficiency Notices (the Notices) This legacy tax matter, which was affected by developments in June 2007 as further described below, involves a partnership transaction which resulted in amortization expense deductions on the tax returns of Old D&B since 1997. IRS audits of Old D&Bs and New D&Bs tax returns for the years 1997 through 2002 concluded in June 2007 without any disallowance of the amortization expense deductions, or any other adjustments to income related to this partnership 39 transaction. These audits did result in the IRS issuing the Notices for other tax issues for the 1997 2000 years aggregating $9.5 million in tax and penalties, plus statutory interest of approximately $7 million, which will be apportioned among Moodys, New D&B, IMS Health and NMR pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements. Moodys share of this assessment is anticipated to be $7.2 million including interest, net of tax. In November 2007, the IRS assessed the tax and penalties and used a portion of the deposit discussed below to satisfy the assessment, together with interest. The Company believes it has meritorious grounds to challenge the IRSs actions and is evaluating its alternatives for further actions to recover these amounts The absence of any tax deficiencies in the Notices for the amortization expense deductions for the years 1997 through 2000 and in companion Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002, combined with the expiration of the statute of limitations for 1997 through 2002, for issues not assessed, resulted in Moodys recording an earnings benefit of $52.3 million in its second quarter. This is comprised of two components, as follows: (i) a reversal of a tax liability of $27.3 million related to the period from 1997 through the Distribution Date, reducing the provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007; and (ii) a reduction of accrued interest expense of $17.5 million ($10.6 million, net of tax) and an increase in other non operating income of $14.4 million, relating to amounts due to New D&B, for the year ended December 31, 2007. On the Distribution Date in 2000, New D&B paid Moodys $55.0 million for 50% of certain anticipated future tax benefits of New D&B through 2012. It is possible that IRS audits of New D&B for tax years after 2002 could result in income adjustments with respect to the amortization expense deductions of this partnership transaction. In the event these tax benefits are not claimed or otherwise not realized by New D&B, or there is an audit adjustment, Moodys would be required, pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, to repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted value of its share of the related future tax benefits and its share of any tax liability that New D&B incurs . As of December 31, 2007, Moodys liability with respect to this matter totaled $52.8 million. In March 2006, New D&B and Moodys each deposited $39.8 million with the IRS in order to stop the accrual of statutory interest on potential tax deficiencies with respect to the 1997 through 2002 tax years. In July 2007, New D&B and Moodys commenced procedures to recover approximately $56 million of these deposits ($24.4 million for New D&B and $31.6 million for Moodys), which represents the excess of the original deposits over the total of the deficiencies asserted in the Notices and in companion Statutory Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002. As noted above, in November 2007 the IRS used $7.9 million of Moodys portion of the deposit to satisfy an assessment and related interest. Additionally, in January 2008 the IRS paid Moodys $8.5 million in connection with this matter. At December 31, 2007, Moodys has recorded liabilities for Legacy Tax Matters totaling $56.7 million. This includes liabilities and accrued interest due to New D&B arising from the 2000 Distribution Agreement. It is possible that the ultimate liability for Legacy Tax Matters could be greater than the liabilities recorded by the Company, which could result in additional charges that may be material to Moodys future reported results, financial position and cash flows. Dividends During 2007, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.32 during the year. During 2006, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.28 during the year. During 2005, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in each of the three subsequent quarters, per share of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.2025 during the year. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at the rate noted above, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 40 Common Stock Information The Companys common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol MCO. The table below indicates the high and low sales price of the Companys common stock and the dividends declared for the periods shown. The number of registered shareholders of record at January 31, 2008 was 3,522. Price Per Share DividendsDeclaredPer Share High Low 2006: First quarter $ 71.95 $ 61.09 $ 0.07 Second quarter 73.29 49.77 0.07 Third quarter 65.84 49.76 0.07 Fourth quarter 71.70 60.60 0.08 Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 0.29 2007: First quarter $ 76.09 $ 58.65 $ 0.08 Second quarter 73.69 60.60 0.08 Third quarter 63.70 42.42 0.08 Fourth quarter 55.99 35.05 0.10 Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 0.34 Forward Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and prospects for the Companys business and operations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. Those statements appear at various places throughout this annual report on Form 10 K, including in the sections entitled Outlook and Contingencies under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, commencing on page 17 of this annual report on Form 10 K, under Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10 K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, will, predict, potential, continue, strategy, aspire, target, forecast, project, estimate, should, could, may and similar expressions or words and variations thereof relating to the Companys views on future events, trends and contingencies. Stockholders and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. The forward looking statements and other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10 K, and the Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly supplement, update or revise such statements on a going forward basis, whether as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying examples of factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated by these forward looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, matters that could affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and or global capital markets, including credit quality concerns, changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets; concerns in the marketplace affecting our credibility or otherwise affecting market perceptions of the integrity or utility of independent agency ratings; increased pricing pressure from competitors and or customers; the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; the impact of regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and the potential for new U.S., state and local legislation and regulations; the potential for increased competition and regulation in foreign jurisdictions; exposure to litigation related to our rating opinions, as well as any other litigation to which the Company may be subject from time to time; the possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures; failures or malfunctions of our operations and infrastructure; the outcome of any review by controlling tax authorities of the Companys global tax planning initiatives; the outcome of those legacy tax and legal contingencies that relate to the Company, its predecessors and their affiliated companies for which Moodys has assumed portions of the financial responsibility; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by financial institutions. These factors, risks and uncertainties as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause Moodys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements are described in greater detail under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10 K, elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other filings made by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated herein or therein. Stockholders and investors 41 are cautioned that the occurrence of any of these factors, risks and uncertainties may cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. New factors may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict new factors, nor can the Company assess the potential effect of any new factors on it. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption Market Risk in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K. 42 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies, commencing on page 17 of this annual report on Form 10 K, is incorporated into this Item 3 by reference. Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities and is cooperating with those inquiries. Based on its review of the latest information available, in the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of the Company for the unresolved matters referred to above is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial condition, although it is possible that the effect could be material to the Companys consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. This opinion is subject to the contingencies described in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this annual report on Form 10 K, no matter was submitted to a vote of security holders. 13 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Information in response to this Item is set forth under the captions Common Stock Information and Dividends in Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K, and under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information in the Companys definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held on April 22, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference. MOODYS PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES For the Three Months Ended December 31, 2007 Period Total Number ofShares Purchased Average PricePaid per Share Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly AnnouncedProgram Approximate Dollar Value ofShares That May yet bePurchased Under theProgram (2) October 1 31 1,231,601 (1) $ 48.46 1,231,491 $ 2,275.8 million November 1 30 1,596,717 39.30 1,596,717 2,213.0 million December 1 31 4,921,449 (1) 38.39 4,920,689 2,024.1 million Total 7,749,767 7,748,897 (1) Includes the surrender to the Company of 110 and 760 shares in October and December, respectively, of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees. (2) As of the last day of each of the months. On June 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, of which $24 million remains at December 31, 2007. On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase program. The Company will begin repurchasing shares under the new program upon completion of the $2.0 billion program authorized in June 2006. There is no established expiration date for either of these authorizations During the fourth quarter of 2007, Moodys repurchased 7.7 million shares of its common stock, at an aggregate cost of $311.4 million, and issued 0.8 million shares under employee stock based compensation plans. 14 PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph compares the total cumulative shareholder return of the Company to the performance of Standard & Poors Stock 500 Index (the S&P 500) and an index of performance peer group companies (the Performance Peer Group). The Company does not believe there are any publicly traded companies that represent strict peers. However, each of the companies in the Performance Peer Group offers business information products in one or more segments of its business. The Performance Peer Group consists of Dow Jones & Company, Inc., The McGraw Hill Companies, Pearson PLC, Reuters Group PLC, Thomson Corporation and Wolters Kluwer nv. The comparison assumes that $100.00 was invested in the Companys common stock (the Common Stock) and in each of the foregoing indices on December 31, 2002. The comparison also assumes the reinvestment of dividends, if any. The total return for the Common Stock was 77% during the performance period as compared with a total return during the same period of 83% for the S&P 500 and 106% for the Performance Peer Group. COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN SINCE DECEMBER 31, 2002 MOODYS CORPORATION, S&P COMPOSITE INDEX AND PEER GROUP INDEX PERIOD ENDING 12/31/2002 12/31/2003 12/31/2004 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 Moodys Corporation $ 100.00 $ 147.17 $ 212.01 $ 301.54 $ 340.58 $ 177.12 Peer Group Index 100.00 131.99 155.63 163.38 206.20 205.53 S&P Composite Index 100.00 128.68 142.69 149.70 173.34 182.87 The comparisons in the graph above are provided in response to disclosure requirements of the SEC and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of future performance of the Common Stock. 15 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The Companys selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Year Ended December 31, amounts in millions, except per share data 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Results of operations Revenue $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 $ 1,438.3 $ 1,246.6 Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses 1,035.1 898.7 756.8 617.8 550.9 Depreciation and amortization 42.9 39.5 35.2 34.1 32.6 Restructuring charge 50.0 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) Operating income 1,131.0 1,259.5 939.6 786.4 663.1 Non operating (expense) income, net (1) (14.3 ) 1.0 (4.9 ) (15.1 ) (6.7 ) Income before provision for income taxes 1,116.7 1,260.5 934.7 771.3 656.4 Provision for income taxes (2) 415.2 506.6 373.9 346.2 292.5 Net income $ 701.5 $ 753.9 $ 560.8 $ 425.1 $ 363.9 Earnings per share Basic $ 2.63 $ 2.65 $ 1.88 $ 1.43 $ 1.22 Diluted $ 2.58 $ 2.58 $ 1.84 $ 1.40 $ 1.19 Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 266.4 284.2 297.7 297.0 297.8 Diluted 272.2 291.9 305.6 304.7 304.6 Dividends declared per share $ 0.34 $ 0.29 $ 0.24 $ 0.15 $ 0.11 Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance sheet data Total assets $ 1,714.6 $ 1,497.7 $ 1,457.2 $ 1,389.3 $ 959.9 Long term debt (3) $ 600.0 $ 300.0 $ 300.0 $ $ 300.0 Shareholders (deficit) equity $ (783.6 ) $ 167.4 $ 309.4 $ 317.5 $ (32.1 ) (1) The 2007 amount includes a $31.9 million benefit related to the resolution of certain legacy tax matters, and the 2003 amount includes a gain of $13.6 million on an insurance recovery related to the September 11th tragedy. (2) The 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounts include net benefits of $20.4 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively and the 2004 and 2003 amounts include expenses of $30.0 million and $16.2 million, respectively, relating to certain legacy tax matters. (3) At December 31, 2004, the notes payable scheduled to mature in September 2005 were classified as a current liability and the 2007 amount includes the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes issued in September 2007. 16 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10 K. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains Forward Looking Statements. See Forward Looking Statements commencing on page 41 and Item 1A. Risk Factors commencing on page 10 for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and other factors associated with these statements. The Company Except where otherwise indicated, the terms Moodys and the Company refer to Moodys Corporation and its subsidiaries. Moodys is a provider of (i) credit ratings and related research, data and analytical tools, (ii) quantitative credit risk measures, risk scoring software, and credit portfolio management solutions and (iii) beginning in January 2008, fixed income pricing data and valuation models. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and Moodys KMV (MKMV). Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys Investors Service publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit obligors and credit obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. It also publishes investor oriented credit information, research and economic commentary, including in depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, special comments and credit opinion handbooks. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Prior to September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Old D&B). On September 8, 2000, the Board of Directors of Old D&B approved a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies the Company and The New D&B Corporation (New D&B). On September 30, 2000 (the Distribution Date), Old D&B distributed to its shareholders all of the outstanding shares of New D&B common stock (the 2000 Distribution). New D&B comprised the business of Old D&Bs Dun & Bradstreet operating company (the D&B Business). The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management services (the Moodys Business) and was renamed Moodys Corporation. New D&B is the accounting successor to Old D&B, which was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on April 8, 1998. Old D&B began operating as an independent publicly owned corporation on July 1, 1998 as a result of its June 30, 1998 spin off (the 1998 Distribution) from the corporation now known as R.H. Donnelley Corporation and previously known as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Donnelley). Old D&B became the accounting successor to Donnelley at the time of the 1998 Distribution. Prior to the 1998 Distribution, Donnelley was the parent holding company for subsidiaries then engaged in the businesses currently conducted by New D&B, Moodys and Donnelley. Prior to November 1, 1996, it also was the parent holding company of subsidiaries conducting business under the names Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant) and ACNielsen Corporation (ACNielsen). On that date Donnelley effected a spin off of the capital stock of Cognizant and ACNielsen to its stockholders (the 1996 Distribution). Cognizant subsequently changed its name to Nielsen Media Research, Inc. in connection with its 1998 spin off of the capital stock of IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health). For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a distribution agreement, tax allocation agreement, employee benefits agreement, shared transaction services agreement, insurance and risk management services agreement, data services agreement and transition services agreement. Detailed descriptions of the 1996, 1998 and 2000 Distributions are contained in the Companys 2000 annual report on Form 10 K, filed on March 15, 2001. 17 Critical Accounting Estimates Moodys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based on the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires Moodys to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These estimates are based on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, Moodys evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable allowances, contingencies, goodwill and intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefits and stock based compensation. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting estimates are considered critical because they are particularly dependent on managements judgment about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made and changes to those estimates could have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Revenue Recognition In recognizing revenue related to ratings, Moodys uses judgments to allocate billed revenue between ratings and the future monitoring of ratings in cases where the Company does not charge ongoing monitoring fees for a particular issuer. These judgments are not dependent on the outcome of future uncertainties, but rather relate to allocating revenue across accounting periods. In such cases, the Company defers portions of rating fees that it estimates will be attributed to future monitoring activities and recognizes the deferred revenue ratably over the estimated monitoring periods. The portion of the revenue to be deferred is based upon a number of factors, including the estimated fair market value of the monitoring services charged for similar securities or issuers. The monitoring period over which the deferred revenue will be recognized is determined based on factors such as the estimated lives of the rated securities. Currently, the estimated monitoring periods range from one to ten years. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue included approximately $54 million, $47 million and $36 million, respectively, related to such monitoring fees. Additionally, in the case of commercial mortgage backed securities, derivatives, international residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities, issuers can elect to pay the monitoring fees upfront. These fees are deferred and recognized over the future monitoring periods, ranging from nine to 46 years, which are based on the expected lives of the rated securities. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue related to these securities was approximately $86 million, $72 million and $57 million, respectively. Moodys estimates revenue for ratings of commercial paper for which, in addition to a fixed annual monitoring fee, issuers are billed quarterly based on amounts outstanding. Revenue is accrued each quarter based on estimated amounts outstanding and is billed when actual data is available. The estimate is determined based on the issuers most recent reported quarterly data. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, accounts receivable included approximately $38 million, $34 million and $31 million, respectively, related to accrued commercial paper revenue. Historically, the Company has not had material differences between the estimated revenue and the actual billings. Accounts Receivable Allowance Moodys records, as reductions of revenue, provisions for estimated future adjustments to customer billings based on historical experience and current conditions. Such provisions are reflected as additions to the accounts receivable allowance. Adjustments to and write offs of accounts receivable are charged against the allowance. Moodys evaluates its accounts receivable by reviewing and assessing historical collection and adjustment experience and the current status of customer accounts. Moodys also considers the economic environment of the customers, both from an industry and geographic perspective, in evaluating the need for allowances. Based on its reviews, Moodys establishes or adjusts allowances as considered appropriate in the circumstance. This process involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and could involve significant dollar amounts. Accordingly, Moodys results of operations can be affected by adjustments to the allowance. Management believes that the allowance for uncollectible accounts is adequate to cover anticipated adjustments and write offs under current conditions. However, significant changes in any of the above factors, or actual write offs or adjustments that differ from the estimated amounts could result in revenue adjustments that are greater or less than Moodys estimates. In each of 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company adjusted its provision rates and its allowances to reflect its current estimate of the appropriate level of accounts receivable allowance. Contingencies Accounting for contingencies, including those matters described in the Contingencies section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations, commencing on page 38 is highly subjective 18 and requires the use of judgments and estimates in assessing their magnitude and likely outcome. In many cases, the outcomes of such matters will be determined by third parties, including governmental or judicial bodies. The provisions made in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the related disclosures, represent managements best estimates of the then current status of such matters and their potential outcome based on a review of the facts and in consultation with outside legal counsel where deemed appropriate. The Company regularly reviews contingencies and as additional information becomes available may, in the future, adjust its associated liabilities. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on Moodys future reported results and financial position. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the provision for income taxes reflected credits of $27.3 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, due to changes in the Companys liabilities for legacy income tax exposures that were assumed by Moodys in connection with its separation from Old D&B in October 2000. These tax matters are more fully described under the caption Legacy Contingencies within Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Moodys evaluates its goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill requires that the Company make important assumptions and judgments about future operating results and cash flows as well as terminal values and discount rates. In estimating future operating results and cash flows, Moodys considers internal budgets and strategic plans, expected long term growth rates, and the effects of external factors and market conditions. If actual future operating results and cash flows or external conditions differ from the Companys judgments, or if changes in assumed terminal values or discount rates are made, an impairment charge may be necessary to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, which charge could be material to the Companys financial position and results of operations. Amortizable intangible assets are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Restructuring Charge The Company has engaged, and may continue to engage, in restructuring actions, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee benefit costs, contract termination costs and asset impairments. If the actual amounts differ from these estimates, the amount of the restructuring charge could be impacted. For a full description of Moodys restructuring actions, refer to the Results of Operations section below and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefits The expenses, assets, liabilities and obligations that Moodys reports for pension and other post retirement benefits are dependent on many assumptions concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These assumptions include the following: future compensation increases, based on the Companys long term actual experience and future outlook long term return on pension plan assets, based on historical portfolio results and the expected future average annual return for each major asset class within the plans portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed income investments) future healthcare cost trends, based on historical market data, near term outlooks and assessments of likely long term trends discount rates, based on current yields on high grade corporate long term bonds The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Companys benefit obligations as of December 31, 2007 was derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares the plans projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank pension discount curve. The cash flows are then discounted back to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. Moodys major assumptions vary by plan and assumptions used are set forth in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. In determining these assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries and other advisors as deemed appropriate. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in its calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions could have a significant effect on the expenses, assets and liabilities related to the Companys pension and other post retirement benefits. 19 When actual plan experience differs from the assumptions used, actuarial gains or losses arise. To the extent the total outstanding gain or loss exceeds a corridor threshold as defined in SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87), the excess is subject to amortization in annual expense over the estimated average future working lifetime of active plan participants. For Moodys pension and other post retirement benefit plans, the total losses as of December 31, 2007 which have not been recognized in annual expense are $19.0 million and in 2008, Moodys expects amortization of actuarial losses to be immaterial. For Moodys funded pension plan, the differences between the expected long term rate of return assumption and actual experience could also affect the net periodic pension expense. As permitted under SFAS No. 87, the Company spreads the impact of asset experience over a five year period for purposes of calculating the market related value of assets which is used in determining the expected return on assets component of annual expense and in calculating the total unrecognized gain or loss subject to amortization. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has an unrecognized asset gain of $4.1 million, of which $1.7 million will be recognized in the market related value of assets that is used to calculate the expected return on assets component of 2009 expense. The table below shows the estimated effect that a one percentage point decrease in each of these assumptions will have on Moodys 2008 operating income (dollars in millions). These effects have been calculated using the Companys current projections of 2008 assets, liabilities, obligations and expenses related to pension and other post retirement plans, which could change as updated data becomes available. Assumption Used for2008 Estimated Impact on2008 Operating Income (Decrease)/Increase Discount Rate* 6.45% / 6.35 % $ (5.8 ) Weighted Average Assumed Compensation Growth Rate 4.00 % $ 0.7 Assumed Long Term Rate of Return on Pension Assets 8.35 % $ (1.2 ) * Discount rates of 6.45% and 6.35% are used for pension plans and other post retirement plans, respectively. A one percentage point increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates will not affect 2008 projected expenses. Based on current projections, the Company estimates that expenses related to pension and post retirement plans will be approximately $13 million in 2008 compared with $16.2 million in 2007, excluding the costs of curtailment and special termination benefits of $10.8 million in 2007. The expected expense decrease in 2008 reflects the effects of higher discount rates, lower amortization of actuarial losses and reduction in workforce due to restructuring, which are partially offset by lower plan asset gains. Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, the Company implemented, under the modified prospective application method, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R). Under this pronouncement, companies are required to record compensation expense for all share based payment award transactions granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. This includes shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. Previously, on January 1, 2003, the Company implemented, on a prospective basis, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model that uses assumptions and estimates that the Company believes are reasonable. Some of the assumptions and estimates, such as share price volatility and expected option holding period, are based in part on Moodys experience during the period since becoming a public company, which is limited. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could produce materially different estimated fair values for option awards and related expense. An increase in the following assumptions would have had the following estimated effect on operating income in 2007 (dollars in millions): Assumption Used Increase inAssumption Estimated Impact onOperating Income in 2007Increase/(Decrease) Average Expected Dividend Yield 2003 2007 grants 0.41% 0.52% 0.10 % $ 1.2 Average Expected Share Price Volatility 2003 2007 grants 23% 30% 5 % $ (4.6 ) Expected Option Holding Period 2003 2007 grants 5.0 6.0 years 1.0 year $ (3.9 ) 20 Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The Companys tax assets and liabilities are affected by the amounts charged for service provided and expenses incurred as well as other tax matters such as inter company transactions. The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Therefore, income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. Moodys is subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions which involve legacy and other tax matters. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of such audits in order to determine the appropriateness of its FIN No. 48 tax liabilities. On January 1, 2007, upon the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company implemented the accounting policy to classify interest related to income taxes as a component of interest expense in the Companys consolidated financial statements and to classify associated penalties, if any, as part of other non operating expenses. Prior to the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company had classified interest related to income taxes and associated penalties as components of income tax expense. In accordance with FIN No. 48, prior period financial statements have not been reclassified for this change. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Upon the initial implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company recorded a reduction of its January 1, 2007 retained earnings of $43.3 million, which is comprised of $32.9 million of tax and accrued interest of $17.3 million ($10.4 million, net of tax). As the determination of FIN No. 48 liabilities and associated interest and penalties requires significant estimates to be made by the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and thus, the eventual outcomes could have a material impact on the Companys net income or financial condition. Other Estimates In addition, there are other accounting estimates within Moodys consolidated financial statements, including recoverability of deferred tax assets, anticipated dividend distributions from non U.S. subsidiaries and valuation of investments in affiliates. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on Moodys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact Moodys. Operating Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. See Reorganization and New Segments section below. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and MKMV. Moodys Investors Service consisted of (i) four rating groups structured finance, corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign risk, and public finance that generate revenue principally from the assignment of credit ratings to issuers and issues of fixed income obligations in the debt markets, and (ii) research, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of investor oriented credit information research, data and other analytical tools that are produced principally by the rating groups. For presentation purposes, Europe represents Europe, the Middle East and Africa and public finance represents U.S. public finance. Given the dominance of Moodys Investors Service to Moodys overall results, the Company does not separately measure or report corporate expenses, nor are such expenses allocated between the Companys business segments. Accordingly, all corporate expenses are included in operating income of the Moodys Investors Service segment and none have been allocated to the MKMV segment. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services, including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. 21 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Company Results Moodys revenue for 2007 totaled $2,259.0 million, an increase of $221.9 million, or 10.9%, from $2,037.1 million for the same period in 2006. The main contributors to this growth were the corporate finance and research lines of business, which increased $85.3 million, or 22.4%, and $69.8 million, or 27.4%, respectively. MKMV revenue contributed 5.4% of the Companys year over year growth, driven by the software and risk subscriptions businesses. Revenue in the United States was $1,361.8 million in 2007, an increase of $84.0 million, or 6.6%, from $1,277.8 million in 2006. Corporate finance and research revenue achieved strong growth of $51.7 million and $33.8 million, respectively, partially offset by a $29.4 million decline in structured finance, resulting from the significant slow down in the credit securitization markets. International revenue was $897.2 million in 2007, an increase of $137.9 million, or 18.2%, from $759.3 million in 2006. Revenue from the structured finance, research and corporate finance lines of business contributed approximately $39 million, $36 million and $34 million, respectively, to the increase. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $39 million of international revenue growth. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the Plan) in response to the Companys reorganization and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors, as more fully described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. A restructuring charge of $50.0 million was recorded in 2007, which consisted of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs, and $4.1 million for contract termination costs. Moodys operating and selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) of $1,035.1 million in 2007 were $136.4 million, or 15.2%, more than $898.7 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately 70% of total operating and SG&A expenses, representing approximately $77 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of approximately 3,500 employees during the year ended December 31, 2007 was approximately 13% higher than during 2006. This increase reflects the impact of hiring from late 2006 and the first half of 2007 to support business growth mainly in the U.S., Asian and European ratings businesses offset by a partial completion of the workforce reductions relating to the restructuring actions implemented in the fourth quarter of 2007. The table below shows Moodys global staffing by operating segment and geographic area at December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,869 1,284 3,153 1,843 1,106 2,949 Moodys KMV 297 122 419 304 97 401 Total 2,166 1,406 3,572 2,147 1,203 3,350 Operating expenses were $584.0 million in 2007, an increase of $44.6 million, or 8.3%, from $539.4 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised approximately 77% of the growth, reflecting normal salary increases coupled with higher staffing levels compared to prior year, partially offset by lower incentive compensation. The staffing level increase reflects hiring in the first half of 2007 to support business growth, primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount increased by approximately 14% over 2006. Non compensation expenses of $96.8 million increased $10.2 million primarily from professional service costs associated with technology investments. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $451.1 million in 2007, an increase of $91.8 million, or 25.5%, from $359.3 million in 2006. Compensation expense of $238.8 million increased $46.5 million, or 24.2%, from 2006 reflecting increased staffing levels in the corporate compliance and technology support functions coupled with the increase in stock based compensation. Non compensation expense of $212.3 million was up $45.3 million, or 27.1%, over 2006 due to higher rent and occupancy costs of $39.3 million, or 88.2%, over 2006 primarily related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7 World Trade Center (7WTC) and an increase in professional service costs of $21.6 million relating to technology investment spending and legal matters. 22 Operating income in 2007 includes a $50.0 million restructuring charge consisting of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs and $4.1 million for contract termination costs, as further discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating income of $1,131.0 million decreased $128.5 million, or 10.2%, from $1,259.5 million in 2006, which reflects approximately $21 million of foreign currency translation gains. Moodys operating margin for 2007 was 50.1% compared to 61.8% in 2006. The restructuring charge in 2007 decreased the 2007 margin by approximately 220 basis points while the gain on building sale increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Interest and other non operating (expense) income, net was $(14.3) million in 2007 compared with $1.0 million in 2006. Interest expense on borrowings was $40.7 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase was due to borrowings under the Companys credit facilities, the issuance of the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes in September 2007, and issuance under the Companys commercial paper program which was established in October 2007. Interest expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities was $21.5 million in 2007. In 2006, before Fin No. 48 became effective, interest on tax liabilities was reported as part of income tax expense, net of Federal tax benefit. There was also a $17.5 million reduction of accrued interest expense and a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income both for amounts due to New D&B related to the Amortization Expense Deductions legacy tax matter more fully described in Contingencies Legacy Contingencies, below. Interest income earned on short term investments and invested cash balances was $19.3 million and $18.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Foreign exchange gains (losses) were immaterial in both 2007 and 2006. Moodys effective tax rate was 37.2% in 2007 compared to 40.2% in 2006. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates included benefits of $27.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally in 2007, there was a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income, which was not taxable, related to legacy tax matters. These matters favorably impacted the Companys 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates by approximately 295 basis points and 30 basis points, respectively. Net income was $701.5 million in 2007, a decrease of $52.4 million, or 7.0%, from $753.9 million in 2006. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2007 were $2.63 and $2.58, respectively, compared to $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, for 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge in 2007, the gain on building sale in 2006 and legacy tax adjustments in both years, net income increased $21.8 million, or 3.3%, and earnings per share increased $0.25, or 11.1%, to $2.50 per share. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $2,104.2 million, up $209.9 million, or 11.1%, from $1,894.3 million in 2006. Ratings revenue accounted for $140.1 million of the increase, with growth largely driven by global corporate finance, and financial institutions. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $32 million of ratings revenue growth. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $465.4 million in 2007, an increase of $85.3 million, or 22.4%, from $380.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $51.7 million, or 21.0%, primarily due to exceptionally strong growth in speculative grade and bank loans in the first half of 2007 offset by revenue declines in the second half of 2007 compared to the second half of 2006. In the second half of 2007, U.S. investment grade revenue increased 57.0% compared to a 7.7% increase in the first half of 2007. International revenue of $167.1 million increased $33.6 million, or 25.2%, largely driven by growth in European investment grade and speculative grade bond issuance as well as a 71.2% increase in bank loan revenue. Global financial institutions revenue was $303.1 million, up $36.3 million, or 13.6%, from $266.8 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $15.1 million, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $165.3 million grew $21.2 million, or 14.7%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $890.6 million for 2007, an increase of 1.1%, or $10.0 million, from $880.6 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S., decreased $29.4 million, or 5.0%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half, largely from the derivatives and commercial mortgage backed securities sectors, was offset by significant revenue declines in the second half of 2007 principally in residential and commercial mortgage backed securities as well as derivatives due to the 23 credit market turmoil which began early in the third quarter of 2007. Outside the U.S., revenue of $328.5 million increased $39.4 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.7 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. International growth was 40.4% in the first half of 2007 offset by a significant slowdown in the second half of 2007 due to the credit market turmoil. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $16 million. Public finance revenue was $120.8 million, an increase of $8.5 million, or 7.6%, from $112.3 million in 2006. Revenue growth was driven by a $4.4 million, or 12.4% increase in the housing, health care, higher education, and infrastructure sectors as well as a $3.0 million, or 11.3%, increase in the municipal structured products sector. Global research revenue of $324.3 million was $69.8 million, or 27.4%, higher than the $254.5 million in 2006, as a result of strong sales of core research products and analytic services to new and existing customers. U.S. revenue of $176.0 million increased $33.8 million, or 23.8%, and international revenue increased $36.0 million, or 32.1%, with 77.5% reflecting growth in Europe. Moodys Investors Service operating, and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $922.1 million, an increase of $133.0 million, or 16.9%, from $789.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised the largest portion of the 2007 expense growth, accounting for 50.8% of the increase from 2006, reflecting normal salary increases, higher staffing primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount grew approximately 16% from 2006, as well as in the corporate compliance and technology support functions. Stock based compensation expense also contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included increased rent and occupancy costs of $39.8 million related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs of approximately $25 million primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal expenses. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $17 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,105.4 million in 2007 was down $137.5 million, or 11.1%, from $1,242.9 million in 2006. Operating income included a $45.6 million restructuring charge in 2007 and a $160.6 million gain on the sale of the former corporate headquarters building in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge and gain on building sale, operating income increased $68.7 million, or 6.3%, with foreign currency translation contributing approximately $22 million of the growth. Moodys KMV Revenue at MKMV in 2007 was $154.8 million, up $12.0 million, or 8.4%, from $142.8 million in 2006. Global revenue was driven by growth in annualized risk subscriptions and software license fees of $8.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively. U.S. revenue of $66.8 million increased 6.9% from $62.5 million in 2006. Outside the U.S., revenue increased $7.7 million, or 9.6%, over prior year. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses in 2007 including the $4.4 million restructuring charge, were $117.4 million, an increase of $7.8 million, or 7.1%, from $109.6 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased $9.9 million primarily reflecting normal salary increases coupled with increased staffing as well as an approximate $2 million reduction of certain employee obligations reflected in 2006. MKMV operating income was $25.6 million for 2007, an increase of $9.0 million, or 54.2%, compared with $16.6 million in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge, MKMVs 2007 operating income increased $13.4 million, or 80.7%, from 2006. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Total Company Results Moodys revenue in 2006 was $2,037.1 million, an increase of $305.5 million, or 17.6%, from $1,731.6 million for the same period of 2005. Moodys achieved strong revenue growth above the rate of the overall corporation in global structured finance, corporate finance and research, and below the corporate rate in financial institutions and MKMV, with a decline in revenue from public finance. 24 Revenue in the United States was $1,277.8 million in 2006, an increase of $192.4 million, or 17.7%, from $1,085.4 million in 2005. Approximately 80% of the U.S. growth was driven by structured finance and corporate finance, reflecting strong issuance across most structured asset classes as well as corporate bonds and bank loans. Research, financial institutions and MKMV contributed to year over year growth as well. Moodys international revenue was $759.3 million in 2006, an increase of $113.1 million, or 17.5%, from $646.2 million in 2005. International ratings revenue grew approximately $96 million versus the prior year, with about 80% of the growth in Europe where credit derivatives, corporate finance, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors were primary drivers of growth. European research and MKMV contributed to growth as well. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Moodys operating and SG&A expenses of $898.7 million in 2006 were $141.9 million, or 18.8%, more than $756.8 million in 2005. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately $103 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of more than 3,100 employees during the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately 15% higher than during the same prior year period. This increase includes hiring to support business growth mainly in the U.S. and European ratings businesses. The table below shows Moodys staffing at year end 2006 compared with year end 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,843 1,106 2,949 1,600 919 2,519 Moodys KMV 304 97 401 303 74 377 Total 2,147 1,203 3,350 1,903 993 2,896 Operating expenses were $539.4 million in 2006, an increase of $86.5 million, or 19.1%, from $452.9 million in 2005. The largest contributor to this increase was growth in compensation and benefits expense of approximately $76 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing and higher stock based compensation expense. Moodys global staffing reflected hiring primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses to support business growth. Stock based compensation expense increased $16.3 million year over year due, in part, to the final year of phasing in of expense over the current four year equity plan vesting period and the effects of a higher share price on the value of the 2006 equity grants versus 2005, offset by additional expense recorded in the first quarter of 2005 related to the accelerated expensing of equity grants for employees at or near retirement eligibility. Expenses for 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $359.3 million in 2006, an increase of $55.4 million, or 18.2%, from $303.9 million in 2005. Year over year expense increases included growth in compensation and benefits of $27 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing in technology support and finance functions and $6.0 million related to stock based compensation as discussed above. Additional 2006 expenses included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $12 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Operating income of $1,259.5 million in 2006, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006, rose $319.9 million, or 34.0%, from $939.6 million in 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, operating income increased 17.0%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year over year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys operating margin for 2006 was 61.8% compared to 54.3% in 2005. The gain on the sale of the building increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Moodys reported $1.0 million of interest and other non operating income (expense), net in 2006 compared with ($4.9) million in 2005. Interest expense was $15.2 million in 2006 and $21.0 million in 2005. The amounts included $14.9 million and $20.9 million of interest expense on Moodys $300 million of notes payable for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest income was $18.2 million in 2006 compared to $26.0 million in 2005. The decrease was attributed to the liquidation of investment portfolios to finance share repurchases. Foreign exchange losses were immaterial in 2006 compared to $8.2 million in 2005. The year over year change was primarily due to the British pound and euro appreciating to the U.S. dollar. Moodys effective tax rate was 40.2% in 2006 compared to 40.0% in 2005. The 2006 and 2005 effective tax rates were reduced by benefits of $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally, Moodys recognized a tax benefit of approximately $3 million related to additional foreign tax credits in the fourth quarter of 2006 and a tax benefit of $3.6 million in 2005 related to the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The 2006 rate was also favorably impacted by approximately 30 basis points due to the settlement of state tax audits. 25 Net income was $753.9 million in 2006, an increase of $193.1 million or 34.4% from $560.8 million in 2005. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2006 were $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, compared to basic and diluted earnings per share of $1.88 and $1.84, respectively, for 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, 2006 net income was $659.8 million, an increase of $99.0 million or 17.7%. Additionally, the gain contributed $0.33 and $0.32 relating to full year basic and diluted earnings per share, respectively. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,894.3 million, up $294.0 million, or 18.4%, from $1,600.3 million in 2005. Ratings revenue accounted for $254.8 million of growth with increased revenue in global structured finance, corporate finance and financial institutions and sovereign risk offsetting a decline in public finance. Double digit growth in research also contributed to the increase in revenue. Foreign currency translation positively impacted revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in revenue. Structured finance revenue was $880.6 million in 2006, an increase of $181.3 million, or 25.9%, from $699.3 million in the same period of 2005. Approximately $111 million of the increase was in the U.S., with the collateralized debt and commercial mortgage backed sectors contributing about 94% of the U.S. increase. Year over year issuance of collateralized loan obligations and cash flow resecuritizations grew, in part, to the increased repackaging of securitized assets such as consumer asset backed and mortgage backed securities, as well as bank loans in collateralized debt obligations. Strong growth in commercial real estate collateralized debt obligation issuance was a key driver of overall commercial mortgage backed issuance. International structured finance revenue grew approximately $70 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $61 million, where credit derivatives, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled approximately 87% of the European growth. Foreign currency translation for structured finance positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $3 million. Corporate finance revenue was $380.1 million in 2006, up $66.3 million, or 21.1%, from $313.8 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 20.8% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. Investment grade bond issuance increased approximately 17% and high yield bond issuance increased approximately 43%, primarily due to significant mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and second lien loan activity. International corporate finance revenue increased approximately $24 million or about 22% due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in global corporate finance revenue. Revenue in the financial institutions and sovereign risk group was $266.8 million in 2006, an increase of $12.2 million or 4.8% from $254.6 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue grew approximately $11 million, principally due to strength in insurance and real estate sectors. Internationally, revenue increased $1.4 million compared to the prior year period. Public finance revenue was $112.3 million in 2006, a decrease of $5.0 million, or 4.3%, from $117.3 million in 2005. Dollar volume issuance in the municipal bond market declined compared to 2005, primarily due to lower refinancing activity. Research revenue of $254.5 million in 2006 was $39.2 million, or 18.2%, higher than $215.3 million in 2005. Revenue grew by approximately $29 million in the U.S. and about $11 million internationally, with Europe accounting for approximately 57% of international growth. Research and analytics services accounted for approximately $17 million of global revenue growth primarily from credit research on the corporate finance, financial institutions and the structured finance related businesses. Revenue from the licensing of Moodys information to financial customers for internal use and redistribution was approximately $57 million in 2006, an increase of approximately $8 million, or about 17% higher than the prior year. Moodys Investors Service operating and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $789.1 million in 2006, an increase of $143.7 million, or 22.3%, from $645.4 million in 2005. The largest contributor to 2006 expenses was growth in compensation and benefits of approximately $110 million reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses and higher stock based compensation expense of $21.4 million. Furthermore, expenses in 2006 included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $11 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Additional increases were due to increased information technology investment spending of approximately $8 million offset by a decrease of approximately $6 million in legal fees. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Additionally, expenses in 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $4 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. 26 Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,242.9 million in 2006 was up $306.6 million or 32.7% from $936.3 million in 2005, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006. Excluding the gain, operating income increased 15.6%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year to year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys KMV MKMV revenue of $142.8 million in 2006 was $11.5 million or 8.8% more than the same period in 2005. MKMVs revenue growth reflected increased demand for credit decision making software and software related maintenance services, which grew approximately 10% or $2.7 million compared to 2005. Growth in subscriptions revenue related to credit risk assessment products grew approximately 5% or $4.9 million compared to prior year and risk services revenue increased approximately $4 million or about 36% compared to prior year. In 2006, international MKMV revenue accounted for 56% of its global revenue. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses were $109.6 million in 2006, a decrease of $1.8 million or 1.6% from $111.4 million in 2005. The 2006 expenses include a total of $3.5 million due to training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses. Additionally, 2006 expenses include a $2.2 million charge recorded in connection with a non income tax matter. The 2005 expenses included approximately $7 million related to severance costs, the write off of capitalized software development and a liability for unpaid overtime due to certain employees. MKMV operating income was $16.6 million for 2006 compared with $3.3 million in 2005. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Reorganization and New Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV, sales of credit research produced by Moodys Investors Service and the production and sales of other products and services, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics (Analytics). The aforementioned reorganization will result in the Company operating in two new reportable segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, beginning in January 2008. The tables below present operating results for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as if the new segment structure described above had been in place as of January 1, 2005. Revenue for MIS and expenses for Analytics includes an intersegment royalty charged to Analytics for the rights to use and distribute content, data and products developed by MIS. Additionally, overhead costs and corporate expenses of the Company, all of which were previously included in the former MIS segment, are allocated to each new segment based on a revenue split methodology. Overhead expenses include costs such as rent and occupancy, information technology and support staff such as finance, human resource, information technology and legal. Eliminations represents intersegment royalty revenue/expense. December 31, 2007 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1835.4 $ 479.1 $ (55.5 ) $ 2,259.0 Operating expenses 759.4 331.2 (55.5 ) 1,035.1 Restructuring charge 41.3 8.7 50.0 Depreciation and amortization 24.0 18.9 42.9 Operating income $ 1,010.7 $ 120.3 $ $ 1,131.0 27 December 31, 2006 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Corporate items/Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,685.6 $ 397.3 $ (45.8 ) $ 2,037.1 Operating expenses 666.1 278.4 (45.8 ) 898.7 Depreciation and amortization 17.3 22.2 39.5 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) (160.6 ) Operating income $ 1,002.2 $ 96.7 $ 160.6 $ 1,259.5 December 31, 2005 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,425.6 $ 346.7 $ (40.7 ) $ 1,731.6 Operating expenses 554.4 243.1 (40.7 ) 756.8 Depreciation and amortization 15.5 19.7 35.2 Operating income $ 855.7 $ 83.9 $ $ 939.6 The table below presents revenue by line of business within each new segment and the related intra segment realignment: Year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Moodys Investors Service: Structured Finance $ 885.9 $ 883.6 $ 708.7 Corporate Finance 411.5 335.9 277.4 Financial Institutions 261.7 222.1 214.0 Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance 220.8 198.2 184.8 Total third party revenue 1,779.9 1,639.8 1,384.9 Intersegment royalty 55.5 45.8 40.7 Total MIS $ 1,835.4 $ 1,685.6 $ 1,425.6 Moodys Analytics: Subscription 421.5 347.5 305.0 Consulting 18.1 13.5 8.1 Software 39.5 36.3 33.6 Total Analytics 479.1 397.3 346.7 Eliminations (55.5 ) (45.8 ) (40.7 ) Total Moodys Corporation $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 As part of the reorganization there were several realignments within the MIS lines of business. Sovereign and sub sovereign ratings which were previously part of financial institutions; infrastructure/utilities ratings, which were previously part of corporate finance; and project finance, which was previously part of structured finance, were combined with the Public Finance business to form a new line of business called Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance. In addition, real estate investment trust ratings were moved from corporate finance to the structured finance business. Within Moodys Analytics various aspects of the legacy MIS Research business and MKMV business were combined to form the subscriptions, software and consulting businesses. The subscriptions business includes credit and economic research, data and analytical models that are sold on a subscription basis; the software business includes license and maintenance fees for credit risk software products, and the consulting business includes professional services and credit training associated with risk modeling, credit scorecard development, and other specialized analytical projects, as well as credit education services that are typically sold on a per engagement basis. 28 The following is a discussion of the results of operations of the new segments, excluding the aforementioned intersegment royalty revenue and related expense, as if they were operating as of January 1, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $1,779.9 million, up $140.1 million, or 8.5%, from $1,639.8 million in 2006. Global corporate finance, financial institutions and the public, project and infrastructure finance business increased $75.6 million, $39.6 million, and $22.6 million, respectively. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $411.5 million in 2007, an increase of 22.5%, from $335.9 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $45.3 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased leveraged loan activities and growth in investment grade bond issuance. International revenue of $141.5 million increased $30.3 million, or 27.2%, largely driven by growth in European bond issuance. Global financial institutions revenue was $261.7 million, up $39.6 million or 17.8% from $222.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $18.9 million, or 18.4%, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $139.7 million grew $20.7 million, or 17.4%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $885.9 million for 2007, an increase of $2.3 million from $883.6 million in 2006. Revenue of $569.6 million in the U.S., decreased $35.5 million, or 5.9%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half of 2007, largely from the credit derivatives and commercial real estate finance sectors, which includes real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, which were offset in the second half of 2007 by declining revenue in the residential mortgage backed securities, derivatives and commercial real estate finance as a result of credit market turmoil which reduced ratable issuance volume. Outside the U.S., revenue of $316.3 million increased $37.7 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.8 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $220.8 million, an increase of $22.6 million, or 11.4%, from $198.2 million in 2006. Revenue from project and infrastructure finance of $76.1 million showed the strongest growth with an increase of $13.5 million or 21.6% over 2006, mostly from within the U.S. Revenue of $144.7 million from the public finance sector, including U.S. public finance, sovereign and sub sovereign, increased $9.1 million, or 6.7%, over prior year driven by growth in combined issuance and new money issuance. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses and a $41.3 million restructuring charge in 2007, were $800.7 million, an increase of $134.6 million, or 20.2%, from $666.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense was the largest contributor to the year over year growth reflecting increased staffing internationally to support business growth, as well as additional headcount in the corporate compliance group. Stock based compensation expense increased year over year primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included an increase in allocated expenses such as increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $955.2 million in 2007 was flat compared to 2006. Excluding the $41.3 million restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $996.5 million increased $40.1 million, or 4.2%, from $956.4 million in 2006. Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $479.1 million, an increase of $81.8 million, or 20.6%, from 2006. U.S. revenue of $242.8 million increased $38.1 million, or 18.6%, and international revenue increased $43.7 million, or 22.7%, with 90.3% of the growth from Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $421.5 million was up $74.0 million, or 21.3%, over $347.5 million in 2006, reflecting continued demand from new and existing customers for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics 29 and other offerings. Software revenue of $39.5 million increased $3.2 million, or 8.8%, from $36.3 million in 2006 primarily from additional license and maintenance fees for credit decisioning and analysis products. Revenue from consulting services grew $4.6 million, or 34.1%, due to increased demand for credit education, risk modeling and scorecard development among customers seeking to implement sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. Operating expenses in 2007 including allocated corporate expenses and the $8.7 million restructuring charge, were $284.4 million, an increase of $51.8 million, or 22.3%, from $232.6 million in 2006. The increase is a result of additional compensation due to headcount growth of 8% and higher sales commission expense resulting from better than expected revenue growth over 2006. It also reflects an increase in allocated expenses due to increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Analytics operating income of $175.8 million in 2007 increased $33.3 million, or 23.4%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Operating income included an $8.7 million restructuring charge in 2007. Excluding the restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $184.5 million increased $42.0 million, or 29.5%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,639.8 million, up $254.9 million or 18.4% from $1,384.9 million in 2005 with global structured and corporate finance accounting for $233.4 million, or 91.6%, of the growth. Structured finance revenue was $883.6 million in 2006, an increase of $174.9 million or 24.7% from $708.7 million in the same period of 2005. Revenue in the U.S. of $605.0 million increased $111.4 million, or 22.6%, with commercial real estate finance, consisting of real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, and credit derivatives contributing $22.2 million and $85.6 million of the increase, respectively. International structured finance revenue grew $63.4 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $58 million, where credit derivatives, commercial real estate finance and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled 91.7% of the European growth. Corporate finance revenue was $335.9 million in 2006, up $58.5 million or 21.1% from $277.4 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 22.3% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. International revenue of $111.2 million increased $17.5 million, or 18.7%, due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Financial institutions revenue was $222.1 million in 2006, an increase of $8.1 million or 3.8% from $214.0 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue of $103.0 million grew $8.2 million, or 8.6%, principally due to strength in the insurance sector. Internationally, revenue was relatively flat compared to 2006 with decreases in Europe being offset by increases in Asia and other international locations. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $198.2 million in 2006, an increase of $13.4 million or 7.3% from $184.8 million in 2005, reflecting good growth in the project and infrastructure sectors internationally. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $666.1 million in 2006, an increase of $111.7 million, or 20.1%, from $554.4 million in 2005. The increase is due to incentive compensation reflecting improved financial results over prior year, additional salaries and benefits expense relating to higher global staffing to support the business growth. Non compensation expense increased over 2006 reflecting additional travel, training and recruiting, as well as an increase in professional service fees associated with technology investment spending. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $956.4 million in 2006 was up $141.4 million, or 17.3%, from $815.0 million in 2005 mostly driven by the growth in revenue. 30 Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $397.3 million, an increase of $50.6 million, or 14.6%, from $346.7 million in 2005. U.S. revenue of $204.7 million increased $33.1 million, or 19.3%, and international revenue increased $17.6 million, or 10.1%, with 63.1% reflecting growth in Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $347.5 million was up $42.5 million, or 13.9%, over $305.0 million in 2005, benefiting from higher sales of core research and data services coupled with new customer growth and lower attrition. Software revenue of $36.3 million increased $2.7 million, or 8.0%, from $33.6 million in 2005 reflecting greater demand for risk products and credit decision making software and related maintenance services. Revenue from consulting services was $13.5 million, an increase of $5.4 million, or 66.7%, from $8.1 million in 2005 reflecting an increase in the risk management needs of customers and the completion of contractual milestones. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $232.6 million in 2006, an increase of $30.2 million, or 14.9%, from $202.4 million in 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits relating to sales commissions from higher revenue coupled with additional staffing over 2005. The increase also reflects additional training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses to support business growth, as well as a $2.2 million charge in 2006 relating to a non income tax related matter. Market Risk Moodys maintains operations in 27 countries outside the United States. Approximately 33% of the Companys revenue was billed in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. Approximately 42% of the Companys expenses were incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. As such, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 35% of Moodys assets were located outside the U.S. Of Moodys aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $426.3 million at December 31, 2007, approximately $348 million was located outside the United States (with $104 million and $88 million in Luxembourg and the U.K., respectively), making the Company susceptible to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Additionally, all of Moodys aggregate short term investments of $14.7 million were located outside the United States. The effects of changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar on assets and liabilities of non U.S. operations with non U.S. functional currencies are charged or credited to the cumulative translation adjustment account in shareholders equity. Moodys cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality investment grade securities within and outside the United States. The Company manages its credit risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market mutual funds and issuers of high grade commercial paper. Short term investments primarily consist of high quality investment grade corporate bonds in Korea. The Company manages its credit risk exposure on cash equivalents and short term investments by limiting the amount it can invest with any single issuer. A portion of the Companys future billings and related revenue is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily related to the euros and British pound. Under the Companys current foreign exchange hedging program, the Company hedges a portion of foreign exchange currency risk for the purpose of reducing volatility in the Companys cash flows related to future euro and British pound billings and related revenue. Foreign exchange options are currently utilized to hedge these exposures and have maturities between one and fifteen months. As of December 2007 all contracts were set to expire at various times through March 2009 and were deemed to be highly effective under SFAS No. 133 and related accounting pronouncements. No credit losses are anticipated as the counterparties to these agreements are major financial institutions. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Companys outstanding options was recorded as an asset of $2.3 million consisting of the following notional amounts: Currency Pair of Option* Notional amount * GBP/USD &pound; 7.9 million EUR/USD 16.7 million EUR/GBP 61.5 million * GBP(&pound;) Great Britain pounds; EUR() euros; USD($) U.S. dollars 31 Unrealized gains or losses will be recorded in other comprehensive income and, once realized, the gains or losses will be recognized as an adjustment to revenue when the billings are recognized in revenue. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the exposure to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates on Moodys foreign exchange options. A hypothetical 10% favorable change in the overall option currency portfolio would result in a gain of approximately $10 million as of December 31, 2007. The maximum loss related to an adverse change in the option currency portfolio would be $2.3 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow The Company is currently financing its operations, capital expenditures and share repurchases through cash flow from operations and from financing activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $984.0 million, $752.5 million and $707.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The Company borrowed $847.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 increased by $231.5 million compared with 2006. A decrease in net income of $52.4 million reduced cash provided by operating activities. The increase in stock based compensation expense positively impacted cash flow from operations by $13.1 million compared to net income. Accounts receivable decreased approximately 7% in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with an increase of approximately 13% for the year ended December 31, 2006 increasing cash flow from operations by $79.1 million compared to 2006. The impact on cash flows of excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans decreased to $52.2 million from $103.2 million in 2006 due to fewer stock option exercises in 2007 compared with 2006. The favorable non cash resolution of a legacy tax matter in the second quarter of 2007 negatively impacted operating cash flow by $52.3 million compared to net income. Operating cash flow in 2006 included a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys former headquarters building. The $67.2 million reduction in cash flows from changes in other current assets is primarily due to the receipt of approximately $16 million from New D&B related to issuer based stock compensation tax deductions in 2006 and an approximate $40 million overpayment of 2007 state income taxes offset by an $8.5 million increase related to a receivable from the IRS for a legacy tax matter classified as a current asset in 2007. Furthermore, the $55.5 million change in cash flows associated with other assets is primarily due to a deposit made in the first quarter of 2006 of approximately $40 million with the IRS relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating cash flow decreased by $87.5 million due to reductions in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. This is primarily due to a decrease in net accrued income taxes of approximately $76.5 million, decreases in accrued incentive compensation of approximately $27 million and decreases in accounts payable of approximately $17 million, due to timing of payments offset by approximately $33 million in restructuring liabilities. Increases in FIN No. 48 and other non current tax and related liabilities increased cash flow from operations by approximately $83 million. Additionally, increases in the deferred rent liability contributed approximately $47 million to cash flow from operations relating primarily to the free rent period and tenant allowance on the 7WTC lease. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 increased by $44.6 million compared with 2005. Growth in net income contributed $193.1 million to cash provided by operating activities. The 2006 cash flows include a decrease relating to excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans of $103.2 million that are now classified as a cash flow from financing activities as required under SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation was presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an operating cash flow, along with other tax cash flows. The operating cash flow includes a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys headquarters building. The cash proceeds are reported as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. The change in accounts receivable is attributable to increases in revenue offset by improved collection. Additionally, Moodys deposited approximately $40 million with the IRS in the first quarter of 2006 relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. This deposit was recorded in other assets. Tax payments increased by $53 million in 2006 versus 2005 offset by increases in income taxes payable due to growth in pre tax net income. An increase in deferred revenue increased cash flow from operations by $28 million which is due to increased volume in annual and initial fees in both the ratings and research businesses. Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities was ($124.7) million, $116.1 million and ($150.4) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net maturities (investments) in short term investments, net of purchases, totaled $61.5 million, $22.5 million and ($88.9) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Capital expenditures, primarily for leasehold improvements and internal use software, totaled $181.8 million, $31.1 million and $31.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 increase relates primarily to the build out of the Companys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. The 2006 spending on acquisitions 32 was $39.2 million, which related primarily to the purchase of a 49% share in China Cheng Xin International Credit Rating Co. Ltd and the acquisition of Wall Street Analytics, Inc., net of cash acquired. The 2005 spending on acquisitions primarily related to the acquisition of Economy.com, net of cash acquired, and a contingent payment made in the second quarter of 2005 related to Korea Investors Service. The net proceeds received from the sale of the Companys former Corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006 were $163.9 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $861.5 million, $965.2 million and $666.5 million for years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company borrowed $547.4 million under its commercial paper program in 2007 to support share repurchases, build out of the new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. Additionally, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction $300.0 million aggregate principal Series 2007 1 Notes in the third quarter of 2007. Spending for share repurchases totaled $1,738.4 million, $1,093.6 million and $691.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Dividends paid were $85.2 million, $79.5 million and $60.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in dividends reflects a quarterly dividend paid of $0.08 per share 2007 versus a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in 2006 and $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in the subsequent quarters per share in 2005. These amounts were offset in part by proceeds from employee stock based compensation plans of $65.9 million, $105.3 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans were $52.2 million and $103.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decreases in proceeds from stock plans and the excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation plans is due primarily to a decrease in stock option exercise activity in 2007 compared to the same period in 2006. Future Cash Requirements The Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months and expects to have positive operating cash flow for fiscal year 2008. Cash requirements for periods beyond the next twelve months will depend, among other things, on the Companys profitability and its ability to manage working capital requirements. The Company currently expects to use a significant portion of its cash flow to continue its share repurchase program. The Company implemented a systematic share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2005 through an SEC Rule 10b5 1 program. Moodys may also purchase opportunistically when conditions warrant. The Companys intent is to return capital to shareholders in a way that serves their long term interests. As a result, Moodys share repurchase activity will continue to vary from quarter to quarter. The Company may borrow from various sources to fund share repurchases. On June 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program of which Moodys has approximately $24 million remaining at December 31, 2007. On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase program that the Company will begin utilizing upon completion of the 2006 authority. There is no established expiration date for either of these authorizations. At December 31,2007 the Company had $551.9 million, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million, of outstanding commercial paper and issued $300.0 million of 6.06% Series 2007 1 Notes, as described in the Indebtedness section below, to support share repurchases, the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. The Company entered into an operating lease agreement (the Lease) commencing on October 20, 2006 with 7 World Trade Center, LLC for 589,945 square feet of an office building located at 7WTC at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, which is serving as Moodys new headquarters. The Lease has an initial term of approximately 21 years with a total of 20 years of renewal options. The total base rent of the lease over its initial 21 year term is approximately $536 million including rent credits from the World Trade Center Rent Reduction Program promulgated by the Empire State Development Corporation. On March 28, 2007, the lease agreement was amended for the Company to lease an additional 78,568 square feet at 7WTC. The additional base rent is approximately $106 million over a 20 year term. The Company plans to incur approximately $21 million of costs to complete the build out its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC over the next year. On October 24, 2007, the Company announced a restructuring plan that would reduce global headcount, terminate certain technology contracts and consolidate certain corporate functions in response to the Companys reorganization announced on August 7, 2007 and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors. Included in the $50.0 million restructuring charge is $7.0 million of non cash settlements relating to pension curtailments and stock based compensation award modifications for certain terminated employees. During 2007, the Company made cash payments of $1.8 million relating to the $43.0 million cash component of the restructuring liability and expects cash outlays of approximately $31 million and $2 million during 2008 and 2009, respectively. The remaining liability of $8.1 million relates to annuity payments that will be made in connection with the Companys 33 pension and other post retirement benefit plans for certain terminated employees, which will commence when the employees reach retirement age beginning in 2009 and continue until all payments have been made. The Company also intends to use a portion of its cash flow to pay dividends. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at this rate, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company will from time to time consider cash outlays for acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses, products, services and technologies. The Company may also be required to make future cash outlays to pay to New D&B its share of potential liabilities related to the legacy tax and legal contingencies that are discussed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Contingencies. These potential cash outlays could be material and might affect liquidity requirements, and they could cause the Company to pursue additional financing. There can be no assurance that financing to meet cash requirements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. Indebtedness The following table summarizes total indebtedness as of December 31: 2007 2006 Notes payable: Senior notes, due 2015, 4.98% $ 300.0 $ 300.0 Senior notes, due 2017, 6.06% 300.0 Commercial paper, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million 551.9 Total 1,151.9 300.0 Less: current portion (551.9 ) Total long term debt $ 600.0 $ 300.0 Notes Payable On September 7, 2007, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.06% Series 2007 1 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017 (Series 2007 1 Notes) pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement (2007 Agreement). The Series 2007 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 6.06%, payable semi annually on March 7 and September 7 of each year. Under the terms of the 2007 Agreement, the Company may, from time to time within five years, in its sole discretion, issue additional series of senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million pursuant to one or more supplements to the 2007 Agreement. The Company may prepay the Series 2007 1 Notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a prepayment premium based on the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled payments, over the prepaid principal (Make Whole Amount). The 2007 Agreement contains covenants that limit the ability of the Company, and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: enter into transactions with affiliates, dispose of assets, incur or create liens, enter into any sale leaseback transactions, or merge with any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets. The Company must also not permit its total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio to exceed 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement (2005 Agreement) and issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Series 2005 1 Senior Unsecured Notes (Series 2005 1 Notes). The Series 2005 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.98%, payable semi annually on March 30 and September 30. The proceeds from the sale of the Series 2005 1 Notes were used to refinance $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding 7.61% Senior Notes which matured on September 30, 2005. In the event that Moodys pays all, or part, of the Series 2005 1 Notes in advance of their maturity (the Prepaid Principal), such prepayment will be subject to a penalty based on the Make Whole Amount. The Series 2005 1 Notes are subject to certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreements. 34 Commercial Paper On October 3, 2007, the Company entered into a commercial paper program (the Program) on a private placement basis under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes (the CP Notes) up to a maximum amount outstanding at any time of $1.0 billion. Amounts available under the Program may be re borrowed. The Program is supported by the Companys 2007 Facility (see Credit Facilities section below), if at any time funds are not available on favorable terms under the Program. The maturities of the CP Notes will vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The CP Notes will be sold at a discount from par or, alternatively, will be sold at par and bear interest at rates that will vary based upon market conditions at the time of the issuance. The rates of interest will depend on whether the CP Notes will be a fixed or floating rate. The interest on a floating rate may be based on the following: (a) certificate of deposit rate; (b) commercial paper rate; (c) the federal funds rate; (d) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR); (e) prime rate; (f) treasury rate; or (g) such other base rate as may be specified in a supplement. The Program contains certain events of default including, among other things: non payment of principal, interest or fees; violation of covenants; invalidity of any loan document; material judgments; and bankruptcy and insolvency events, subject in certain instances to cure periods. Credit Facilities On September 28, 2007, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion five year senior, unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2007 Facility), expiring in September 2012, which replaces both the $500.0 million Interim Facility, which was set to expire in February 2008 as well as the $500.0 million five year revolving credit facility entered into on September 1, 2004 and scheduled to expire in September 2009. The 2007 Facility will serve, in part, to support the commercial paper program discussed above. Interest on borrowings is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 16.0 to 40.0 basis points of the facility amount depending on the Companys ratio of total indebtedness to EBITDA (Earnings Coverage Ratio). The Company also pays quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the 2007 Facility. The quarterly fees for the 2007 Facility can range from 4.0 to 10.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also pays a utilization fee of 5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeds 50% of the total facility. The 2007 Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreement. The 2007 Facility also contains financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain an Earnings Coverage Ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the 2007 Facility. On August 8, 2007, the Company entered into an interim loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million that was to expire on February 8, 2008 (the Interim Facility). Interest on borrowings was payable at rates that were based on LIBOR plus a premium that could range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points of the Interim Facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the Interim Facility. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the Interim Facility and repaid the $100.0 million outstanding balance. On September 1, 2004, Moodys entered into a five year senior, unsecured bank revolving credit facility (the 2004 Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $160.0 million that was scheduled to expire in September 2009. Interest on the borrowings under the 2004 Facility was payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio, as defined in the related agreement. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeded 50% of the total facility. In October 2006, Moodys amended the 2004 Facility by increasing the limit on sale proceeds resulting from a sale leaseback transaction of its former corporate headquarters building from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. Additionally, the restriction on liens to secure indebtedness related to the building sale was also increased from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. The Company also increased the expansion feature of the 2004 Facility from $80.0 million to $340.0 million, subject to obtaining commitments for the incremental capacity at the time of draw down from the existing lenders. In April 2007, after receipt of all necessary approvals relating to the execution of the expansion feature, borrowing capacity under the 2004 Facility was increased to $500.0 million. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of the 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the 2004 Facility and repaid the $400.0 million outstanding balance. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all covenants contained within the note agreements and the 2007 Facility described above. 35 Interest (expense) income, net Interest (expense) income, net consists of: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Income $ 19.3 $ 18.2 $ 26.0 Expense on borrowings (40.7 ) (15.2 ) (21.0 ) Expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities (21.5 ) Reversal of interest (a) 17.5 Capitalized 1.1 Interest (expense) income, net $ (24.3 ) $ 3.0 $ 5.0 (a) Represents a reversal of accrued interest related to the favorable resolution of a legacy tax matter, as further discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Interest paid on all borrowings was $32.5 million, $14.9 million and $22.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Management may consider pursuing additional long term financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for operations, share repurchase and other strategic opportunities, which would result in higher financing costs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Moodys did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities where Moodys is the primary beneficiary, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, Moodys is not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if it had engaged in such relationships. Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due under the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less Than 1Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Over 5Years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 1,071.1 $ 72.6 $ 113.7 $ 105.3 $ 779.5 Notes payable (2) 910.6 33.2 66.2 66.2 745.0 Purchase obligations (3) 39.0 30.1 7.9 1.0 Borrowings under commercial paper program (4) 552.6 552.6 Capital lease obligations 4.5 1.7 2.8 Other (5) 59.9 2.6 12.1 9.2 36.0 Total (6) $ 2,637.7 $ 692.8 $ 202.7 $ 181.7 $ 1,560.5 (1) Includes rent payments relating to the 165,000 square foot, 17.5 year operating lease agreement entered into on February 6, 2008 to occupy six floors of an office tower in the Canary Wharf section of London, England. The Company will begin making rent payments in March 2011. (2) Includes $9.3 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2007 and $301.3 million of interest that will accrue and be due from January 1, 2008 through September 30, 2015 and 2017, when the Series 2005 1 Notes and the Series 2007 1 Notes mature, respectively. (3) Purchase obligations include approximately $21 million, excluding approximately $0.8 million of accrued liabilities, related to the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. Purchase obligations also include contracts for professional services, data processing and telecommunication services, and data back up facilities. (4) Includes $1.3 million of interest related to CP Notes outstanding under its commercial paper program at December 31, 2007 that will be due and paid at various times through December 31, 2008. As of February 27, 2008, the Company had approximately $746 million of CP Notes outstanding under the Program. See Indebtedness for further information. 36 (5) Includes $59.9 million of projected benefit payments relating to the Companys unfunded Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefit Plans described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. (6) The table above does not include the Companys net long term tax liabilities of $118.3 million, since the expected cash outflow of such amounts by period cannot be reasonably estimated. 2008 Outlook Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including Moodys KMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys new initiatives in fixed income pricing and valuations will also be captured within Moodys Analytics. Moodys outlook for 2008 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors, including interest rates, corporate profitability and business investment spending, merger and acquisition activity, consumer spending, residential mortgage borrowing and refinancing activity, securitization levels and capital markets issuance. There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and, if actual conditions differ from these assumptions, Moodys results for the year may differ from our current outlook. For Moodys overall, full year 2008 revenue is expected to decline in the low double digit percent range. This decline assumes foreign currency translation in 2008 at current exchange rates. The Company anticipates a weak first half of 2008 with improvement in market liquidity and issuance conditions later in the year. Under this scenario, Moodys first half 2008 performance is likely to reflect unusually weak market conditions, as well as challenging year on year comparisons against the first half of 2007 when the Company delivered record performance. The Company expects the full year 2008 operating margin to decline to the mid to high forties percent range, due primarily to lower ratings revenue. Full year expenses are expected to decrease approximately 5%, primarily due to the 2007 restructuring charge of $50.0 million, as well as expense savings from the restructuring actions, partially offset by investments in the growth areas of our business. Earnings per share for 2008 are projected in a range from $2.17 to $2.25, which reflects the estimated impact of share buy backs under the Companys share repurchase program. For the global Moodys Investors Service business, the Company expects revenue for the full year 2008 to decline in the mid to high teens percent range. Within the U.S., the Company projects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the mid twenties percent range for the full year 2008. In the U.S. structured finance business, Moodys expects revenue for the year to decline in the low to mid forties percent range, reflecting double digit percent declines in most asset classes, led by residential mortgage backed securities and credit derivatives ratings. In the U.S. corporate finance business, the Company expects revenue to decrease in the low teens percent range for the year driven by declines across all asset classes. In both the U.S. financial institutions and public, project and infrastructure finance sectors, Moodys projects revenue in 2008 to grow in the low single digit percent range. Outside the U.S. the Company expects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the low single digit percent range. Good growth from rating financial institutions; public, project and infrastructure finance; and corporate securities is expected to be more than offset by a decline in structured finance ratings revenue, primarily in Europe. For Moodys Analytics, the Company expects revenue growth in the mid teens percent range. In the U.S., growth is projected to be in the low teens percent range while outside the U.S., revenue is expected to increase in the high teens percent range. Growth in the subscription businesses is expected in the mid teens range, reflecting continued demand for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics, and the impact of our newly formed pricing and valuation business. In the consulting business, Moodys anticipates very strong growth, reflecting a robust pipeline of professional services engagements and credit training projects. There is considerable demand for Moodys expertise in credit education, risk modeling, and scorecard development as customers implement more sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. In the software business, the Company expects revenue to be flat versus 2007, as customers begin to migrate to new generation software platforms. 37 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value, and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is expected to increase the consistency of fair value measurements and applies only to those measurements that are already required or permitted to be measured at fair value by other accounting standards. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 2 (FSP FAS 157 2), which partially defers the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company has implemented the deferral provisions of FSP FAS 157 2 and as a result has partially implemented the provisions of SFAS No. 157 as of January 1, 2008. The partial implementation of SFAS 157 does not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations and the Company will apply, as of January 1, 2009, the provisions of SFAS No, 157 to its non financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination and not subsequently remeasured at fair value, non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value for a goodwill impairment assessment, nonfinancial long lived assets measured at fair value for an asset impairment assessment, and asset retirement obligations initially measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards which require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each reporting period. Items eligible for fair value election include recognized financial assets and liabilities such as equity method investments and investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values, written loan commitments, and certain warranties and insurance contracts where a warrantor or insurer is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, the election must be applied to individual instruments with certain restrictions, is irrevocable and must be applied to an entire instrument. Any upfront costs and fees related to the item elected for fair value must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred. At the implementation date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the implementation of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2008. The Company is currently determining the impact, if any, that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No.141R). SFAS No. 141R extends its applicability to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses and establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non controlling interest in the acquiree, and the goodwill acquired. SFAS 141R also expands disclosure requirements to improve the statement users abilities to evaluate the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of implementing SFAS No. 141R will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No.160). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parents ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS No. 160 also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners and requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be reported as equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of implementing SFAS No. 160 will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Contingencies From time to time, Moodys is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation that are incidental to the Companys business, including claims based on ratings assigned by Moodys. Moodys is also subject to ongoing tax audits in the normal course of business. Management periodically assesses the Companys liabilities and contingencies based upon the latest information available. 38 Moodys discloses material pending legal proceedings, other than routine litigation incidental to Moodys business, material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities and other pending matters that it may determine to be appropriate. For matters, except those related to income taxes, where it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company has recorded liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and periodically adjusts these as appropriate. When sufficient uncertainties exist, related to the outcome and or the amount or range of loss, management does not record a liability but discloses the contingency if significant. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities accordingly. For income tax matters, the Company employs the prescribed methodology of FIN No. 48, implemented as of January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained, based on its technical merits, as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities and is cooperating with those inquiries. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described below, in the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, although it is possible that the effect could be material to the Companys consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Legacy Contingencies Moodys continues to have exposure to certain potential liabilities assumed in connection with the 2000 Distribution (Legacy Contingencies). The following description of the relationships among Moodys, New D&B and their predecessor entities is important in understanding the Legacy Contingencies that relate to tax matters (Legacy Tax Matters). In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, ACNielsen Corporation and Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant). In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into two separate public companies: Old D&B and R.H. Donnelley Corporation. During 1998, Cognizant separated into two separate public companies: IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (NMR). In September 2000, Old D&B separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moodys, as further described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in the normal course of business, including through tax free restructurings of both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to normal review by tax authorities. Old D&B and its predecessors also entered into a series of agreements covering the sharing of any liabilities for payment of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on certain tax matters, and certain other potential tax liabilities, all as described in such agreements. Further, in connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moodys have agreed on the financial responsibility for any potential liabilities related to Legacy Tax Matters. Settlement agreements were executed with the IRS in 2005 regarding Legacy Tax Matters for the years 1989 1990 and 1993 1996. As of December 31, 2007, the Company continues to carry a liability of $1.8 million with respect to these matters. With respect to these settlement agreements, Moodys and New D&B believe that IMS Health and NMR did not pay their full share of the liability to the IRS pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements among the parties. Moodys and New D&B paid these amounts to the IRS on their behalf, and have been unable to resolve this dispute with IMS Health and NMR. As a result, Moodys and New D&B have commenced arbitration proceedings against IMS Health and NMR to collect a total of approximately $11 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1989 1990 matter. Moodys and New D&B may also commence an arbitration proceeding to collect a total of $14.5 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1993 1996 matter. Moodys cannot predict the outcome of these matters with any certainty. Amortization Expense Deductions and 1997 2002 IRS Deficiency Notices (the Notices) This legacy tax matter, which was affected by developments in June 2007 as further described below, involves a partnership transaction which resulted in amortization expense deductions on the tax returns of Old D&B since 1997. IRS audits of Old D&Bs and New D&Bs tax returns for the years 1997 through 2002 concluded in June 2007 without any disallowance of the amortization expense deductions, or any other adjustments to income related to this partnership 39 transaction. These audits did result in the IRS issuing the Notices for other tax issues for the 1997 2000 years aggregating $9.5 million in tax and penalties, plus statutory interest of approximately $7 million, which will be apportioned among Moodys, New D&B, IMS Health and NMR pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements. Moodys share of this assessment is anticipated to be $7.2 million including interest, net of tax. In November 2007, the IRS assessed the tax and penalties and used a portion of the deposit discussed below to satisfy the assessment, together with interest. The Company believes it has meritorious grounds to challenge the IRSs actions and is evaluating its alternatives for further actions to recover these amounts The absence of any tax deficiencies in the Notices for the amortization expense deductions for the years 1997 through 2000 and in companion Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002, combined with the expiration of the statute of limitations for 1997 through 2002, for issues not assessed, resulted in Moodys recording an earnings benefit of $52.3 million in its second quarter. This is comprised of two components, as follows: (i) a reversal of a tax liability of $27.3 million related to the period from 1997 through the Distribution Date, reducing the provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007; and (ii) a reduction of accrued interest expense of $17.5 million ($10.6 million, net of tax) and an increase in other non operating income of $14.4 million, relating to amounts due to New D&B, for the year ended December 31, 2007. On the Distribution Date in 2000, New D&B paid Moodys $55.0 million for 50% of certain anticipated future tax benefits of New D&B through 2012. It is possible that IRS audits of New D&B for tax years after 2002 could result in income adjustments with respect to the amortization expense deductions of this partnership transaction. In the event these tax benefits are not claimed or otherwise not realized by New D&B, or there is an audit adjustment, Moodys would be required, pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, to repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted value of its share of the related future tax benefits and its share of any tax liability that New D&B incurs . As of December 31, 2007, Moodys liability with respect to this matter totaled $52.8 million. In March 2006, New D&B and Moodys each deposited $39.8 million with the IRS in order to stop the accrual of statutory interest on potential tax deficiencies with respect to the 1997 through 2002 tax years. In July 2007, New D&B and Moodys commenced procedures to recover approximately $56 million of these deposits ($24.4 million for New D&B and $31.6 million for Moodys), which represents the excess of the original deposits over the total of the deficiencies asserted in the Notices and in companion Statutory Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002. As noted above, in November 2007 the IRS used $7.9 million of Moodys portion of the deposit to satisfy an assessment and related interest. Additionally, in January 2008 the IRS paid Moodys $8.5 million in connection with this matter. At December 31, 2007, Moodys has recorded liabilities for Legacy Tax Matters totaling $56.7 million. This includes liabilities and accrued interest due to New D&B arising from the 2000 Distribution Agreement. It is possible that the ultimate liability for Legacy Tax Matters could be greater than the liabilities recorded by the Company, which could result in additional charges that may be material to Moodys future reported results, financial position and cash flows. Dividends During 2007, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.32 during the year. During 2006, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.28 during the year. During 2005, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in each of the three subsequent quarters, per share of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.2025 during the year. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at the rate noted above, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 40 Common Stock Information The Companys common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol MCO. The table below indicates the high and low sales price of the Companys common stock and the dividends declared for the periods shown. The number of registered shareholders of record at January 31, 2008 was 3,522. Price Per Share DividendsDeclaredPer Share High Low 2006: First quarter $ 71.95 $ 61.09 $ 0.07 Second quarter 73.29 49.77 0.07 Third quarter 65.84 49.76 0.07 Fourth quarter 71.70 60.60 0.08 Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 0.29 2007: First quarter $ 76.09 $ 58.65 $ 0.08 Second quarter 73.69 60.60 0.08 Third quarter 63.70 42.42 0.08 Fourth quarter 55.99 35.05 0.10 Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 0.34 Forward Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and prospects for the Companys business and operations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. Those statements appear at various places throughout this annual report on Form 10 K, including in the sections entitled Outlook and Contingencies under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, commencing on page 17 of this annual report on Form 10 K, under Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10 K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, will, predict, potential, continue, strategy, aspire, target, forecast, project, estimate, should, could, may and similar expressions or words and variations thereof relating to the Companys views on future events, trends and contingencies. Stockholders and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. The forward looking statements and other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10 K, and the Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly supplement, update or revise such statements on a going forward basis, whether as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying examples of factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated by these forward looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, matters that could affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and or global capital markets, including credit quality concerns, changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets; concerns in the marketplace affecting our credibility or otherwise affecting market perceptions of the integrity or utility of independent agency ratings; increased pricing pressure from competitors and or customers; the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; the impact of regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and the potential for new U.S., state and local legislation and regulations; the potential for increased competition and regulation in foreign jurisdictions; exposure to litigation related to our rating opinions, as well as any other litigation to which the Company may be subject from time to time; the possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures; failures or malfunctions of our operations and infrastructure; the outcome of any review by controlling tax authorities of the Companys global tax planning initiatives; the outcome of those legacy tax and legal contingencies that relate to the Company, its predecessors and their affiliated companies for which Moodys has assumed portions of the financial responsibility; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by financial institutions. These factors, risks and uncertainties as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause Moodys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements are described in greater detail under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10 K, elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other filings made by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated herein or therein. Stockholders and investors 41 are cautioned that the occurrence of any of these factors, risks and uncertainties may cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. New factors may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict new factors, nor can the Company assess the potential effect of any new factors on it. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption Market Risk in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K. 42 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this annual report on Form 10 K, no matter was submitted to a vote of security holders. 13 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES. Information in response to this Item is set forth under the captions Common Stock Information and Dividends in Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K, and under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information in the Companys definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held on April 22, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference. MOODYS PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES For the Three Months Ended December 31, 2007 Period Total Number ofShares Purchased Average PricePaid per Share Total Number of SharesPurchased as Part ofPublicly AnnouncedProgram Approximate Dollar Value ofShares That May yet bePurchased Under theProgram (2) October 1 31 1,231,601 (1) $ 48.46 1,231,491 $ 2,275.8 million November 1 30 1,596,717 39.30 1,596,717 2,213.0 million December 1 31 4,921,449 (1) 38.39 4,920,689 2,024.1 million Total 7,749,767 7,748,897 (1) Includes the surrender to the Company of 110 and 760 shares in October and December, respectively, of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees. (2) As of the last day of each of the months. On June 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, of which $24 million remains at December 31, 2007. On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase program. The Company will begin repurchasing shares under the new program upon completion of the $2.0 billion program authorized in June 2006. There is no established expiration date for either of these authorizations During the fourth quarter of 2007, Moodys repurchased 7.7 million shares of its common stock, at an aggregate cost of $311.4 million, and issued 0.8 million shares under employee stock based compensation plans. 14 PERFORMANCE GRAPH The following graph compares the total cumulative shareholder return of the Company to the performance of Standard & Poors Stock 500 Index (the S&P 500) and an index of performance peer group companies (the Performance Peer Group). The Company does not believe there are any publicly traded companies that represent strict peers. However, each of the companies in the Performance Peer Group offers business information products in one or more segments of its business. The Performance Peer Group consists of Dow Jones & Company, Inc., The McGraw Hill Companies, Pearson PLC, Reuters Group PLC, Thomson Corporation and Wolters Kluwer nv. The comparison assumes that $100.00 was invested in the Companys common stock (the Common Stock) and in each of the foregoing indices on December 31, 2002. The comparison also assumes the reinvestment of dividends, if any. The total return for the Common Stock was 77% during the performance period as compared with a total return during the same period of 83% for the S&P 500 and 106% for the Performance Peer Group. COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN SINCE DECEMBER 31, 2002 MOODYS CORPORATION, S&P COMPOSITE INDEX AND PEER GROUP INDEX PERIOD ENDING 12/31/2002 12/31/2003 12/31/2004 12/31/2005 12/31/2006 12/31/2007 Moodys Corporation $ 100.00 $ 147.17 $ 212.01 $ 301.54 $ 340.58 $ 177.12 Peer Group Index 100.00 131.99 155.63 163.38 206.20 205.53 S&P Composite Index 100.00 128.68 142.69 149.70 173.34 182.87 The comparisons in the graph above are provided in response to disclosure requirements of the SEC and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of future performance of the Common Stock. 15 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The Companys selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Year Ended December 31, amounts in millions, except per share data 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Results of operations Revenue $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 $ 1,438.3 $ 1,246.6 Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses 1,035.1 898.7 756.8 617.8 550.9 Depreciation and amortization 42.9 39.5 35.2 34.1 32.6 Restructuring charge 50.0 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) Operating income 1,131.0 1,259.5 939.6 786.4 663.1 Non operating (expense) income, net (1) (14.3 ) 1.0 (4.9 ) (15.1 ) (6.7 ) Income before provision for income taxes 1,116.7 1,260.5 934.7 771.3 656.4 Provision for income taxes (2) 415.2 506.6 373.9 346.2 292.5 Net income $ 701.5 $ 753.9 $ 560.8 $ 425.1 $ 363.9 Earnings per share Basic $ 2.63 $ 2.65 $ 1.88 $ 1.43 $ 1.22 Diluted $ 2.58 $ 2.58 $ 1.84 $ 1.40 $ 1.19 Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 266.4 284.2 297.7 297.0 297.8 Diluted 272.2 291.9 305.6 304.7 304.6 Dividends declared per share $ 0.34 $ 0.29 $ 0.24 $ 0.15 $ 0.11 Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance sheet data Total assets $ 1,714.6 $ 1,497.7 $ 1,457.2 $ 1,389.3 $ 959.9 Long term debt (3) $ 600.0 $ 300.0 $ 300.0 $ $ 300.0 Shareholders (deficit) equity $ (783.6 ) $ 167.4 $ 309.4 $ 317.5 $ (32.1 ) (1) The 2007 amount includes a $31.9 million benefit related to the resolution of certain legacy tax matters, and the 2003 amount includes a gain of $13.6 million on an insurance recovery related to the September 11th tragedy. (2) The 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounts include net benefits of $20.4 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively and the 2004 and 2003 amounts include expenses of $30.0 million and $16.2 million, respectively, relating to certain legacy tax matters. (3) At December 31, 2004, the notes payable scheduled to mature in September 2005 were classified as a current liability and the 2007 amount includes the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes issued in September 2007. 16 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10 K. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains Forward Looking Statements. See Forward Looking Statements commencing on page 41 and Item 1A. Risk Factors commencing on page 10 for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and other factors associated with these statements. The Company Except where otherwise indicated, the terms Moodys and the Company refer to Moodys Corporation and its subsidiaries. Moodys is a provider of (i) credit ratings and related research, data and analytical tools, (ii) quantitative credit risk measures, risk scoring software, and credit portfolio management solutions and (iii) beginning in January 2008, fixed income pricing data and valuation models. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and Moodys KMV (MKMV). Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys Investors Service publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit obligors and credit obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. It also publishes investor oriented credit information, research and economic commentary, including in depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, special comments and credit opinion handbooks. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Prior to September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Old D&B). On September 8, 2000, the Board of Directors of Old D&B approved a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies the Company and The New D&B Corporation (New D&B). On September 30, 2000 (the Distribution Date), Old D&B distributed to its shareholders all of the outstanding shares of New D&B common stock (the 2000 Distribution). New D&B comprised the business of Old D&Bs Dun & Bradstreet operating company (the D&B Business). The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management services (the Moodys Business) and was renamed Moodys Corporation. New D&B is the accounting successor to Old D&B, which was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on April 8, 1998. Old D&B began operating as an independent publicly owned corporation on July 1, 1998 as a result of its June 30, 1998 spin off (the 1998 Distribution) from the corporation now known as R.H. Donnelley Corporation and previously known as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Donnelley). Old D&B became the accounting successor to Donnelley at the time of the 1998 Distribution. Prior to the 1998 Distribution, Donnelley was the parent holding company for subsidiaries then engaged in the businesses currently conducted by New D&B, Moodys and Donnelley. Prior to November 1, 1996, it also was the parent holding company of subsidiaries conducting business under the names Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant) and ACNielsen Corporation (ACNielsen). On that date Donnelley effected a spin off of the capital stock of Cognizant and ACNielsen to its stockholders (the 1996 Distribution). Cognizant subsequently changed its name to Nielsen Media Research, Inc. in connection with its 1998 spin off of the capital stock of IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health). For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a distribution agreement, tax allocation agreement, employee benefits agreement, shared transaction services agreement, insurance and risk management services agreement, data services agreement and transition services agreement. Detailed descriptions of the 1996, 1998 and 2000 Distributions are contained in the Companys 2000 annual report on Form 10 K, filed on March 15, 2001. 17 Critical Accounting Estimates Moodys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based on the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires Moodys to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These estimates are based on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, Moodys evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable allowances, contingencies, goodwill and intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefits and stock based compensation. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting estimates are considered critical because they are particularly dependent on managements judgment about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made and changes to those estimates could have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Revenue Recognition In recognizing revenue related to ratings, Moodys uses judgments to allocate billed revenue between ratings and the future monitoring of ratings in cases where the Company does not charge ongoing monitoring fees for a particular issuer. These judgments are not dependent on the outcome of future uncertainties, but rather relate to allocating revenue across accounting periods. In such cases, the Company defers portions of rating fees that it estimates will be attributed to future monitoring activities and recognizes the deferred revenue ratably over the estimated monitoring periods. The portion of the revenue to be deferred is based upon a number of factors, including the estimated fair market value of the monitoring services charged for similar securities or issuers. The monitoring period over which the deferred revenue will be recognized is determined based on factors such as the estimated lives of the rated securities. Currently, the estimated monitoring periods range from one to ten years. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue included approximately $54 million, $47 million and $36 million, respectively, related to such monitoring fees. Additionally, in the case of commercial mortgage backed securities, derivatives, international residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities, issuers can elect to pay the monitoring fees upfront. These fees are deferred and recognized over the future monitoring periods, ranging from nine to 46 years, which are based on the expected lives of the rated securities. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue related to these securities was approximately $86 million, $72 million and $57 million, respectively. Moodys estimates revenue for ratings of commercial paper for which, in addition to a fixed annual monitoring fee, issuers are billed quarterly based on amounts outstanding. Revenue is accrued each quarter based on estimated amounts outstanding and is billed when actual data is available. The estimate is determined based on the issuers most recent reported quarterly data. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, accounts receivable included approximately $38 million, $34 million and $31 million, respectively, related to accrued commercial paper revenue. Historically, the Company has not had material differences between the estimated revenue and the actual billings. Accounts Receivable Allowance Moodys records, as reductions of revenue, provisions for estimated future adjustments to customer billings based on historical experience and current conditions. Such provisions are reflected as additions to the accounts receivable allowance. Adjustments to and write offs of accounts receivable are charged against the allowance. Moodys evaluates its accounts receivable by reviewing and assessing historical collection and adjustment experience and the current status of customer accounts. Moodys also considers the economic environment of the customers, both from an industry and geographic perspective, in evaluating the need for allowances. Based on its reviews, Moodys establishes or adjusts allowances as considered appropriate in the circumstance. This process involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and could involve significant dollar amounts. Accordingly, Moodys results of operations can be affected by adjustments to the allowance. Management believes that the allowance for uncollectible accounts is adequate to cover anticipated adjustments and write offs under current conditions. However, significant changes in any of the above factors, or actual write offs or adjustments that differ from the estimated amounts could result in revenue adjustments that are greater or less than Moodys estimates. In each of 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company adjusted its provision rates and its allowances to reflect its current estimate of the appropriate level of accounts receivable allowance. Contingencies Accounting for contingencies, including those matters described in the Contingencies section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations, commencing on page 38 is highly subjective 18 and requires the use of judgments and estimates in assessing their magnitude and likely outcome. In many cases, the outcomes of such matters will be determined by third parties, including governmental or judicial bodies. The provisions made in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the related disclosures, represent managements best estimates of the then current status of such matters and their potential outcome based on a review of the facts and in consultation with outside legal counsel where deemed appropriate. The Company regularly reviews contingencies and as additional information becomes available may, in the future, adjust its associated liabilities. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on Moodys future reported results and financial position. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the provision for income taxes reflected credits of $27.3 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, due to changes in the Companys liabilities for legacy income tax exposures that were assumed by Moodys in connection with its separation from Old D&B in October 2000. These tax matters are more fully described under the caption Legacy Contingencies within Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Moodys evaluates its goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill requires that the Company make important assumptions and judgments about future operating results and cash flows as well as terminal values and discount rates. In estimating future operating results and cash flows, Moodys considers internal budgets and strategic plans, expected long term growth rates, and the effects of external factors and market conditions. If actual future operating results and cash flows or external conditions differ from the Companys judgments, or if changes in assumed terminal values or discount rates are made, an impairment charge may be necessary to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, which charge could be material to the Companys financial position and results of operations. Amortizable intangible assets are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Restructuring Charge The Company has engaged, and may continue to engage, in restructuring actions, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee benefit costs, contract termination costs and asset impairments. If the actual amounts differ from these estimates, the amount of the restructuring charge could be impacted. For a full description of Moodys restructuring actions, refer to the Results of Operations section below and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefits The expenses, assets, liabilities and obligations that Moodys reports for pension and other post retirement benefits are dependent on many assumptions concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These assumptions include the following: future compensation increases, based on the Companys long term actual experience and future outlook long term return on pension plan assets, based on historical portfolio results and the expected future average annual return for each major asset class within the plans portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed income investments) future healthcare cost trends, based on historical market data, near term outlooks and assessments of likely long term trends discount rates, based on current yields on high grade corporate long term bonds The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Companys benefit obligations as of December 31, 2007 was derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares the plans projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank pension discount curve. The cash flows are then discounted back to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. Moodys major assumptions vary by plan and assumptions used are set forth in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. In determining these assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries and other advisors as deemed appropriate. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in its calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions could have a significant effect on the expenses, assets and liabilities related to the Companys pension and other post retirement benefits. 19 When actual plan experience differs from the assumptions used, actuarial gains or losses arise. To the extent the total outstanding gain or loss exceeds a corridor threshold as defined in SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87), the excess is subject to amortization in annual expense over the estimated average future working lifetime of active plan participants. For Moodys pension and other post retirement benefit plans, the total losses as of December 31, 2007 which have not been recognized in annual expense are $19.0 million and in 2008, Moodys expects amortization of actuarial losses to be immaterial. For Moodys funded pension plan, the differences between the expected long term rate of return assumption and actual experience could also affect the net periodic pension expense. As permitted under SFAS No. 87, the Company spreads the impact of asset experience over a five year period for purposes of calculating the market related value of assets which is used in determining the expected return on assets component of annual expense and in calculating the total unrecognized gain or loss subject to amortization. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has an unrecognized asset gain of $4.1 million, of which $1.7 million will be recognized in the market related value of assets that is used to calculate the expected return on assets component of 2009 expense. The table below shows the estimated effect that a one percentage point decrease in each of these assumptions will have on Moodys 2008 operating income (dollars in millions). These effects have been calculated using the Companys current projections of 2008 assets, liabilities, obligations and expenses related to pension and other post retirement plans, which could change as updated data becomes available. Assumption Used for2008 Estimated Impact on2008 Operating Income (Decrease)/Increase Discount Rate* 6.45% / 6.35 % $ (5.8 ) Weighted Average Assumed Compensation Growth Rate 4.00 % $ 0.7 Assumed Long Term Rate of Return on Pension Assets 8.35 % $ (1.2 ) * Discount rates of 6.45% and 6.35% are used for pension plans and other post retirement plans, respectively. A one percentage point increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates will not affect 2008 projected expenses. Based on current projections, the Company estimates that expenses related to pension and post retirement plans will be approximately $13 million in 2008 compared with $16.2 million in 2007, excluding the costs of curtailment and special termination benefits of $10.8 million in 2007. The expected expense decrease in 2008 reflects the effects of higher discount rates, lower amortization of actuarial losses and reduction in workforce due to restructuring, which are partially offset by lower plan asset gains. Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, the Company implemented, under the modified prospective application method, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R). Under this pronouncement, companies are required to record compensation expense for all share based payment award transactions granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. This includes shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. Previously, on January 1, 2003, the Company implemented, on a prospective basis, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model that uses assumptions and estimates that the Company believes are reasonable. Some of the assumptions and estimates, such as share price volatility and expected option holding period, are based in part on Moodys experience during the period since becoming a public company, which is limited. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could produce materially different estimated fair values for option awards and related expense. An increase in the following assumptions would have had the following estimated effect on operating income in 2007 (dollars in millions): Assumption Used Increase inAssumption Estimated Impact onOperating Income in 2007Increase/(Decrease) Average Expected Dividend Yield 2003 2007 grants 0.41% 0.52% 0.10 % $ 1.2 Average Expected Share Price Volatility 2003 2007 grants 23% 30% 5 % $ (4.6 ) Expected Option Holding Period 2003 2007 grants 5.0 6.0 years 1.0 year $ (3.9 ) 20 Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The Companys tax assets and liabilities are affected by the amounts charged for service provided and expenses incurred as well as other tax matters such as inter company transactions. The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Therefore, income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. Moodys is subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions which involve legacy and other tax matters. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of such audits in order to determine the appropriateness of its FIN No. 48 tax liabilities. On January 1, 2007, upon the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company implemented the accounting policy to classify interest related to income taxes as a component of interest expense in the Companys consolidated financial statements and to classify associated penalties, if any, as part of other non operating expenses. Prior to the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company had classified interest related to income taxes and associated penalties as components of income tax expense. In accordance with FIN No. 48, prior period financial statements have not been reclassified for this change. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Upon the initial implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company recorded a reduction of its January 1, 2007 retained earnings of $43.3 million, which is comprised of $32.9 million of tax and accrued interest of $17.3 million ($10.4 million, net of tax). As the determination of FIN No. 48 liabilities and associated interest and penalties requires significant estimates to be made by the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and thus, the eventual outcomes could have a material impact on the Companys net income or financial condition. Other Estimates In addition, there are other accounting estimates within Moodys consolidated financial statements, including recoverability of deferred tax assets, anticipated dividend distributions from non U.S. subsidiaries and valuation of investments in affiliates. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on Moodys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact Moodys. Operating Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. See Reorganization and New Segments section below. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and MKMV. Moodys Investors Service consisted of (i) four rating groups structured finance, corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign risk, and public finance that generate revenue principally from the assignment of credit ratings to issuers and issues of fixed income obligations in the debt markets, and (ii) research, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of investor oriented credit information research, data and other analytical tools that are produced principally by the rating groups. For presentation purposes, Europe represents Europe, the Middle East and Africa and public finance represents U.S. public finance. Given the dominance of Moodys Investors Service to Moodys overall results, the Company does not separately measure or report corporate expenses, nor are such expenses allocated between the Companys business segments. Accordingly, all corporate expenses are included in operating income of the Moodys Investors Service segment and none have been allocated to the MKMV segment. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services, including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. 21 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Company Results Moodys revenue for 2007 totaled $2,259.0 million, an increase of $221.9 million, or 10.9%, from $2,037.1 million for the same period in 2006. The main contributors to this growth were the corporate finance and research lines of business, which increased $85.3 million, or 22.4%, and $69.8 million, or 27.4%, respectively. MKMV revenue contributed 5.4% of the Companys year over year growth, driven by the software and risk subscriptions businesses. Revenue in the United States was $1,361.8 million in 2007, an increase of $84.0 million, or 6.6%, from $1,277.8 million in 2006. Corporate finance and research revenue achieved strong growth of $51.7 million and $33.8 million, respectively, partially offset by a $29.4 million decline in structured finance, resulting from the significant slow down in the credit securitization markets. International revenue was $897.2 million in 2007, an increase of $137.9 million, or 18.2%, from $759.3 million in 2006. Revenue from the structured finance, research and corporate finance lines of business contributed approximately $39 million, $36 million and $34 million, respectively, to the increase. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $39 million of international revenue growth. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the Plan) in response to the Companys reorganization and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors, as more fully described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. A restructuring charge of $50.0 million was recorded in 2007, which consisted of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs, and $4.1 million for contract termination costs. Moodys operating and selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) of $1,035.1 million in 2007 were $136.4 million, or 15.2%, more than $898.7 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately 70% of total operating and SG&A expenses, representing approximately $77 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of approximately 3,500 employees during the year ended December 31, 2007 was approximately 13% higher than during 2006. This increase reflects the impact of hiring from late 2006 and the first half of 2007 to support business growth mainly in the U.S., Asian and European ratings businesses offset by a partial completion of the workforce reductions relating to the restructuring actions implemented in the fourth quarter of 2007. The table below shows Moodys global staffing by operating segment and geographic area at December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,869 1,284 3,153 1,843 1,106 2,949 Moodys KMV 297 122 419 304 97 401 Total 2,166 1,406 3,572 2,147 1,203 3,350 Operating expenses were $584.0 million in 2007, an increase of $44.6 million, or 8.3%, from $539.4 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised approximately 77% of the growth, reflecting normal salary increases coupled with higher staffing levels compared to prior year, partially offset by lower incentive compensation. The staffing level increase reflects hiring in the first half of 2007 to support business growth, primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount increased by approximately 14% over 2006. Non compensation expenses of $96.8 million increased $10.2 million primarily from professional service costs associated with technology investments. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $451.1 million in 2007, an increase of $91.8 million, or 25.5%, from $359.3 million in 2006. Compensation expense of $238.8 million increased $46.5 million, or 24.2%, from 2006 reflecting increased staffing levels in the corporate compliance and technology support functions coupled with the increase in stock based compensation. Non compensation expense of $212.3 million was up $45.3 million, or 27.1%, over 2006 due to higher rent and occupancy costs of $39.3 million, or 88.2%, over 2006 primarily related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7 World Trade Center (7WTC) and an increase in professional service costs of $21.6 million relating to technology investment spending and legal matters. 22 Operating income in 2007 includes a $50.0 million restructuring charge consisting of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs and $4.1 million for contract termination costs, as further discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating income of $1,131.0 million decreased $128.5 million, or 10.2%, from $1,259.5 million in 2006, which reflects approximately $21 million of foreign currency translation gains. Moodys operating margin for 2007 was 50.1% compared to 61.8% in 2006. The restructuring charge in 2007 decreased the 2007 margin by approximately 220 basis points while the gain on building sale increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Interest and other non operating (expense) income, net was $(14.3) million in 2007 compared with $1.0 million in 2006. Interest expense on borrowings was $40.7 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase was due to borrowings under the Companys credit facilities, the issuance of the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes in September 2007, and issuance under the Companys commercial paper program which was established in October 2007. Interest expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities was $21.5 million in 2007. In 2006, before Fin No. 48 became effective, interest on tax liabilities was reported as part of income tax expense, net of Federal tax benefit. There was also a $17.5 million reduction of accrued interest expense and a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income both for amounts due to New D&B related to the Amortization Expense Deductions legacy tax matter more fully described in Contingencies Legacy Contingencies, below. Interest income earned on short term investments and invested cash balances was $19.3 million and $18.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Foreign exchange gains (losses) were immaterial in both 2007 and 2006. Moodys effective tax rate was 37.2% in 2007 compared to 40.2% in 2006. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates included benefits of $27.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally in 2007, there was a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income, which was not taxable, related to legacy tax matters. These matters favorably impacted the Companys 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates by approximately 295 basis points and 30 basis points, respectively. Net income was $701.5 million in 2007, a decrease of $52.4 million, or 7.0%, from $753.9 million in 2006. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2007 were $2.63 and $2.58, respectively, compared to $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, for 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge in 2007, the gain on building sale in 2006 and legacy tax adjustments in both years, net income increased $21.8 million, or 3.3%, and earnings per share increased $0.25, or 11.1%, to $2.50 per share. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $2,104.2 million, up $209.9 million, or 11.1%, from $1,894.3 million in 2006. Ratings revenue accounted for $140.1 million of the increase, with growth largely driven by global corporate finance, and financial institutions. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $32 million of ratings revenue growth. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $465.4 million in 2007, an increase of $85.3 million, or 22.4%, from $380.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $51.7 million, or 21.0%, primarily due to exceptionally strong growth in speculative grade and bank loans in the first half of 2007 offset by revenue declines in the second half of 2007 compared to the second half of 2006. In the second half of 2007, U.S. investment grade revenue increased 57.0% compared to a 7.7% increase in the first half of 2007. International revenue of $167.1 million increased $33.6 million, or 25.2%, largely driven by growth in European investment grade and speculative grade bond issuance as well as a 71.2% increase in bank loan revenue. Global financial institutions revenue was $303.1 million, up $36.3 million, or 13.6%, from $266.8 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $15.1 million, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $165.3 million grew $21.2 million, or 14.7%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $890.6 million for 2007, an increase of 1.1%, or $10.0 million, from $880.6 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S., decreased $29.4 million, or 5.0%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half, largely from the derivatives and commercial mortgage backed securities sectors, was offset by significant revenue declines in the second half of 2007 principally in residential and commercial mortgage backed securities as well as derivatives due to the 23 credit market turmoil which began early in the third quarter of 2007. Outside the U.S., revenue of $328.5 million increased $39.4 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.7 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. International growth was 40.4% in the first half of 2007 offset by a significant slowdown in the second half of 2007 due to the credit market turmoil. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $16 million. Public finance revenue was $120.8 million, an increase of $8.5 million, or 7.6%, from $112.3 million in 2006. Revenue growth was driven by a $4.4 million, or 12.4% increase in the housing, health care, higher education, and infrastructure sectors as well as a $3.0 million, or 11.3%, increase in the municipal structured products sector. Global research revenue of $324.3 million was $69.8 million, or 27.4%, higher than the $254.5 million in 2006, as a result of strong sales of core research products and analytic services to new and existing customers. U.S. revenue of $176.0 million increased $33.8 million, or 23.8%, and international revenue increased $36.0 million, or 32.1%, with 77.5% reflecting growth in Europe. Moodys Investors Service operating, and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $922.1 million, an increase of $133.0 million, or 16.9%, from $789.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised the largest portion of the 2007 expense growth, accounting for 50.8% of the increase from 2006, reflecting normal salary increases, higher staffing primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount grew approximately 16% from 2006, as well as in the corporate compliance and technology support functions. Stock based compensation expense also contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included increased rent and occupancy costs of $39.8 million related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs of approximately $25 million primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal expenses. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $17 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,105.4 million in 2007 was down $137.5 million, or 11.1%, from $1,242.9 million in 2006. Operating income included a $45.6 million restructuring charge in 2007 and a $160.6 million gain on the sale of the former corporate headquarters building in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge and gain on building sale, operating income increased $68.7 million, or 6.3%, with foreign currency translation contributing approximately $22 million of the growth. Moodys KMV Revenue at MKMV in 2007 was $154.8 million, up $12.0 million, or 8.4%, from $142.8 million in 2006. Global revenue was driven by growth in annualized risk subscriptions and software license fees of $8.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively. U.S. revenue of $66.8 million increased 6.9% from $62.5 million in 2006. Outside the U.S., revenue increased $7.7 million, or 9.6%, over prior year. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses in 2007 including the $4.4 million restructuring charge, were $117.4 million, an increase of $7.8 million, or 7.1%, from $109.6 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased $9.9 million primarily reflecting normal salary increases coupled with increased staffing as well as an approximate $2 million reduction of certain employee obligations reflected in 2006. MKMV operating income was $25.6 million for 2007, an increase of $9.0 million, or 54.2%, compared with $16.6 million in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge, MKMVs 2007 operating income increased $13.4 million, or 80.7%, from 2006. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Total Company Results Moodys revenue in 2006 was $2,037.1 million, an increase of $305.5 million, or 17.6%, from $1,731.6 million for the same period of 2005. Moodys achieved strong revenue growth above the rate of the overall corporation in global structured finance, corporate finance and research, and below the corporate rate in financial institutions and MKMV, with a decline in revenue from public finance. 24 Revenue in the United States was $1,277.8 million in 2006, an increase of $192.4 million, or 17.7%, from $1,085.4 million in 2005. Approximately 80% of the U.S. growth was driven by structured finance and corporate finance, reflecting strong issuance across most structured asset classes as well as corporate bonds and bank loans. Research, financial institutions and MKMV contributed to year over year growth as well. Moodys international revenue was $759.3 million in 2006, an increase of $113.1 million, or 17.5%, from $646.2 million in 2005. International ratings revenue grew approximately $96 million versus the prior year, with about 80% of the growth in Europe where credit derivatives, corporate finance, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors were primary drivers of growth. European research and MKMV contributed to growth as well. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Moodys operating and SG&A expenses of $898.7 million in 2006 were $141.9 million, or 18.8%, more than $756.8 million in 2005. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately $103 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of more than 3,100 employees during the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately 15% higher than during the same prior year period. This increase includes hiring to support business growth mainly in the U.S. and European ratings businesses. The table below shows Moodys staffing at year end 2006 compared with year end 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,843 1,106 2,949 1,600 919 2,519 Moodys KMV 304 97 401 303 74 377 Total 2,147 1,203 3,350 1,903 993 2,896 Operating expenses were $539.4 million in 2006, an increase of $86.5 million, or 19.1%, from $452.9 million in 2005. The largest contributor to this increase was growth in compensation and benefits expense of approximately $76 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing and higher stock based compensation expense. Moodys global staffing reflected hiring primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses to support business growth. Stock based compensation expense increased $16.3 million year over year due, in part, to the final year of phasing in of expense over the current four year equity plan vesting period and the effects of a higher share price on the value of the 2006 equity grants versus 2005, offset by additional expense recorded in the first quarter of 2005 related to the accelerated expensing of equity grants for employees at or near retirement eligibility. Expenses for 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $359.3 million in 2006, an increase of $55.4 million, or 18.2%, from $303.9 million in 2005. Year over year expense increases included growth in compensation and benefits of $27 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing in technology support and finance functions and $6.0 million related to stock based compensation as discussed above. Additional 2006 expenses included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $12 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Operating income of $1,259.5 million in 2006, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006, rose $319.9 million, or 34.0%, from $939.6 million in 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, operating income increased 17.0%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year over year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys operating margin for 2006 was 61.8% compared to 54.3% in 2005. The gain on the sale of the building increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Moodys reported $1.0 million of interest and other non operating income (expense), net in 2006 compared with ($4.9) million in 2005. Interest expense was $15.2 million in 2006 and $21.0 million in 2005. The amounts included $14.9 million and $20.9 million of interest expense on Moodys $300 million of notes payable for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest income was $18.2 million in 2006 compared to $26.0 million in 2005. The decrease was attributed to the liquidation of investment portfolios to finance share repurchases. Foreign exchange losses were immaterial in 2006 compared to $8.2 million in 2005. The year over year change was primarily due to the British pound and euro appreciating to the U.S. dollar. Moodys effective tax rate was 40.2% in 2006 compared to 40.0% in 2005. The 2006 and 2005 effective tax rates were reduced by benefits of $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally, Moodys recognized a tax benefit of approximately $3 million related to additional foreign tax credits in the fourth quarter of 2006 and a tax benefit of $3.6 million in 2005 related to the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The 2006 rate was also favorably impacted by approximately 30 basis points due to the settlement of state tax audits. 25 Net income was $753.9 million in 2006, an increase of $193.1 million or 34.4% from $560.8 million in 2005. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2006 were $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, compared to basic and diluted earnings per share of $1.88 and $1.84, respectively, for 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, 2006 net income was $659.8 million, an increase of $99.0 million or 17.7%. Additionally, the gain contributed $0.33 and $0.32 relating to full year basic and diluted earnings per share, respectively. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,894.3 million, up $294.0 million, or 18.4%, from $1,600.3 million in 2005. Ratings revenue accounted for $254.8 million of growth with increased revenue in global structured finance, corporate finance and financial institutions and sovereign risk offsetting a decline in public finance. Double digit growth in research also contributed to the increase in revenue. Foreign currency translation positively impacted revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in revenue. Structured finance revenue was $880.6 million in 2006, an increase of $181.3 million, or 25.9%, from $699.3 million in the same period of 2005. Approximately $111 million of the increase was in the U.S., with the collateralized debt and commercial mortgage backed sectors contributing about 94% of the U.S. increase. Year over year issuance of collateralized loan obligations and cash flow resecuritizations grew, in part, to the increased repackaging of securitized assets such as consumer asset backed and mortgage backed securities, as well as bank loans in collateralized debt obligations. Strong growth in commercial real estate collateralized debt obligation issuance was a key driver of overall commercial mortgage backed issuance. International structured finance revenue grew approximately $70 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $61 million, where credit derivatives, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled approximately 87% of the European growth. Foreign currency translation for structured finance positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $3 million. Corporate finance revenue was $380.1 million in 2006, up $66.3 million, or 21.1%, from $313.8 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 20.8% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. Investment grade bond issuance increased approximately 17% and high yield bond issuance increased approximately 43%, primarily due to significant mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and second lien loan activity. International corporate finance revenue increased approximately $24 million or about 22% due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in global corporate finance revenue. Revenue in the financial institutions and sovereign risk group was $266.8 million in 2006, an increase of $12.2 million or 4.8% from $254.6 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue grew approximately $11 million, principally due to strength in insurance and real estate sectors. Internationally, revenue increased $1.4 million compared to the prior year period. Public finance revenue was $112.3 million in 2006, a decrease of $5.0 million, or 4.3%, from $117.3 million in 2005. Dollar volume issuance in the municipal bond market declined compared to 2005, primarily due to lower refinancing activity. Research revenue of $254.5 million in 2006 was $39.2 million, or 18.2%, higher than $215.3 million in 2005. Revenue grew by approximately $29 million in the U.S. and about $11 million internationally, with Europe accounting for approximately 57% of international growth. Research and analytics services accounted for approximately $17 million of global revenue growth primarily from credit research on the corporate finance, financial institutions and the structured finance related businesses. Revenue from the licensing of Moodys information to financial customers for internal use and redistribution was approximately $57 million in 2006, an increase of approximately $8 million, or about 17% higher than the prior year. Moodys Investors Service operating and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $789.1 million in 2006, an increase of $143.7 million, or 22.3%, from $645.4 million in 2005. The largest contributor to 2006 expenses was growth in compensation and benefits of approximately $110 million reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses and higher stock based compensation expense of $21.4 million. Furthermore, expenses in 2006 included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $11 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Additional increases were due to increased information technology investment spending of approximately $8 million offset by a decrease of approximately $6 million in legal fees. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Additionally, expenses in 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $4 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. 26 Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,242.9 million in 2006 was up $306.6 million or 32.7% from $936.3 million in 2005, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006. Excluding the gain, operating income increased 15.6%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year to year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys KMV MKMV revenue of $142.8 million in 2006 was $11.5 million or 8.8% more than the same period in 2005. MKMVs revenue growth reflected increased demand for credit decision making software and software related maintenance services, which grew approximately 10% or $2.7 million compared to 2005. Growth in subscriptions revenue related to credit risk assessment products grew approximately 5% or $4.9 million compared to prior year and risk services revenue increased approximately $4 million or about 36% compared to prior year. In 2006, international MKMV revenue accounted for 56% of its global revenue. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses were $109.6 million in 2006, a decrease of $1.8 million or 1.6% from $111.4 million in 2005. The 2006 expenses include a total of $3.5 million due to training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses. Additionally, 2006 expenses include a $2.2 million charge recorded in connection with a non income tax matter. The 2005 expenses included approximately $7 million related to severance costs, the write off of capitalized software development and a liability for unpaid overtime due to certain employees. MKMV operating income was $16.6 million for 2006 compared with $3.3 million in 2005. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Reorganization and New Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV, sales of credit research produced by Moodys Investors Service and the production and sales of other products and services, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics (Analytics). The aforementioned reorganization will result in the Company operating in two new reportable segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, beginning in January 2008. The tables below present operating results for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as if the new segment structure described above had been in place as of January 1, 2005. Revenue for MIS and expenses for Analytics includes an intersegment royalty charged to Analytics for the rights to use and distribute content, data and products developed by MIS. Additionally, overhead costs and corporate expenses of the Company, all of which were previously included in the former MIS segment, are allocated to each new segment based on a revenue split methodology. Overhead expenses include costs such as rent and occupancy, information technology and support staff such as finance, human resource, information technology and legal. Eliminations represents intersegment royalty revenue/expense. December 31, 2007 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1835.4 $ 479.1 $ (55.5 ) $ 2,259.0 Operating expenses 759.4 331.2 (55.5 ) 1,035.1 Restructuring charge 41.3 8.7 50.0 Depreciation and amortization 24.0 18.9 42.9 Operating income $ 1,010.7 $ 120.3 $ $ 1,131.0 27 December 31, 2006 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Corporate items/Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,685.6 $ 397.3 $ (45.8 ) $ 2,037.1 Operating expenses 666.1 278.4 (45.8 ) 898.7 Depreciation and amortization 17.3 22.2 39.5 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) (160.6 ) Operating income $ 1,002.2 $ 96.7 $ 160.6 $ 1,259.5 December 31, 2005 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,425.6 $ 346.7 $ (40.7 ) $ 1,731.6 Operating expenses 554.4 243.1 (40.7 ) 756.8 Depreciation and amortization 15.5 19.7 35.2 Operating income $ 855.7 $ 83.9 $ $ 939.6 The table below presents revenue by line of business within each new segment and the related intra segment realignment: Year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Moodys Investors Service: Structured Finance $ 885.9 $ 883.6 $ 708.7 Corporate Finance 411.5 335.9 277.4 Financial Institutions 261.7 222.1 214.0 Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance 220.8 198.2 184.8 Total third party revenue 1,779.9 1,639.8 1,384.9 Intersegment royalty 55.5 45.8 40.7 Total MIS $ 1,835.4 $ 1,685.6 $ 1,425.6 Moodys Analytics: Subscription 421.5 347.5 305.0 Consulting 18.1 13.5 8.1 Software 39.5 36.3 33.6 Total Analytics 479.1 397.3 346.7 Eliminations (55.5 ) (45.8 ) (40.7 ) Total Moodys Corporation $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 As part of the reorganization there were several realignments within the MIS lines of business. Sovereign and sub sovereign ratings which were previously part of financial institutions; infrastructure/utilities ratings, which were previously part of corporate finance; and project finance, which was previously part of structured finance, were combined with the Public Finance business to form a new line of business called Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance. In addition, real estate investment trust ratings were moved from corporate finance to the structured finance business. Within Moodys Analytics various aspects of the legacy MIS Research business and MKMV business were combined to form the subscriptions, software and consulting businesses. The subscriptions business includes credit and economic research, data and analytical models that are sold on a subscription basis; the software business includes license and maintenance fees for credit risk software products, and the consulting business includes professional services and credit training associated with risk modeling, credit scorecard development, and other specialized analytical projects, as well as credit education services that are typically sold on a per engagement basis. 28 The following is a discussion of the results of operations of the new segments, excluding the aforementioned intersegment royalty revenue and related expense, as if they were operating as of January 1, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $1,779.9 million, up $140.1 million, or 8.5%, from $1,639.8 million in 2006. Global corporate finance, financial institutions and the public, project and infrastructure finance business increased $75.6 million, $39.6 million, and $22.6 million, respectively. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $411.5 million in 2007, an increase of 22.5%, from $335.9 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $45.3 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased leveraged loan activities and growth in investment grade bond issuance. International revenue of $141.5 million increased $30.3 million, or 27.2%, largely driven by growth in European bond issuance. Global financial institutions revenue was $261.7 million, up $39.6 million or 17.8% from $222.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $18.9 million, or 18.4%, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $139.7 million grew $20.7 million, or 17.4%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $885.9 million for 2007, an increase of $2.3 million from $883.6 million in 2006. Revenue of $569.6 million in the U.S., decreased $35.5 million, or 5.9%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half of 2007, largely from the credit derivatives and commercial real estate finance sectors, which includes real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, which were offset in the second half of 2007 by declining revenue in the residential mortgage backed securities, derivatives and commercial real estate finance as a result of credit market turmoil which reduced ratable issuance volume. Outside the U.S., revenue of $316.3 million increased $37.7 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.8 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $220.8 million, an increase of $22.6 million, or 11.4%, from $198.2 million in 2006. Revenue from project and infrastructure finance of $76.1 million showed the strongest growth with an increase of $13.5 million or 21.6% over 2006, mostly from within the U.S. Revenue of $144.7 million from the public finance sector, including U.S. public finance, sovereign and sub sovereign, increased $9.1 million, or 6.7%, over prior year driven by growth in combined issuance and new money issuance. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses and a $41.3 million restructuring charge in 2007, were $800.7 million, an increase of $134.6 million, or 20.2%, from $666.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense was the largest contributor to the year over year growth reflecting increased staffing internationally to support business growth, as well as additional headcount in the corporate compliance group. Stock based compensation expense increased year over year primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included an increase in allocated expenses such as increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $955.2 million in 2007 was flat compared to 2006. Excluding the $41.3 million restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $996.5 million increased $40.1 million, or 4.2%, from $956.4 million in 2006. Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $479.1 million, an increase of $81.8 million, or 20.6%, from 2006. U.S. revenue of $242.8 million increased $38.1 million, or 18.6%, and international revenue increased $43.7 million, or 22.7%, with 90.3% of the growth from Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $421.5 million was up $74.0 million, or 21.3%, over $347.5 million in 2006, reflecting continued demand from new and existing customers for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics 29 and other offerings. Software revenue of $39.5 million increased $3.2 million, or 8.8%, from $36.3 million in 2006 primarily from additional license and maintenance fees for credit decisioning and analysis products. Revenue from consulting services grew $4.6 million, or 34.1%, due to increased demand for credit education, risk modeling and scorecard development among customers seeking to implement sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. Operating expenses in 2007 including allocated corporate expenses and the $8.7 million restructuring charge, were $284.4 million, an increase of $51.8 million, or 22.3%, from $232.6 million in 2006. The increase is a result of additional compensation due to headcount growth of 8% and higher sales commission expense resulting from better than expected revenue growth over 2006. It also reflects an increase in allocated expenses due to increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Analytics operating income of $175.8 million in 2007 increased $33.3 million, or 23.4%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Operating income included an $8.7 million restructuring charge in 2007. Excluding the restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $184.5 million increased $42.0 million, or 29.5%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,639.8 million, up $254.9 million or 18.4% from $1,384.9 million in 2005 with global structured and corporate finance accounting for $233.4 million, or 91.6%, of the growth. Structured finance revenue was $883.6 million in 2006, an increase of $174.9 million or 24.7% from $708.7 million in the same period of 2005. Revenue in the U.S. of $605.0 million increased $111.4 million, or 22.6%, with commercial real estate finance, consisting of real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, and credit derivatives contributing $22.2 million and $85.6 million of the increase, respectively. International structured finance revenue grew $63.4 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $58 million, where credit derivatives, commercial real estate finance and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled 91.7% of the European growth. Corporate finance revenue was $335.9 million in 2006, up $58.5 million or 21.1% from $277.4 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 22.3% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. International revenue of $111.2 million increased $17.5 million, or 18.7%, due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Financial institutions revenue was $222.1 million in 2006, an increase of $8.1 million or 3.8% from $214.0 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue of $103.0 million grew $8.2 million, or 8.6%, principally due to strength in the insurance sector. Internationally, revenue was relatively flat compared to 2006 with decreases in Europe being offset by increases in Asia and other international locations. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $198.2 million in 2006, an increase of $13.4 million or 7.3% from $184.8 million in 2005, reflecting good growth in the project and infrastructure sectors internationally. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $666.1 million in 2006, an increase of $111.7 million, or 20.1%, from $554.4 million in 2005. The increase is due to incentive compensation reflecting improved financial results over prior year, additional salaries and benefits expense relating to higher global staffing to support the business growth. Non compensation expense increased over 2006 reflecting additional travel, training and recruiting, as well as an increase in professional service fees associated with technology investment spending. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $956.4 million in 2006 was up $141.4 million, or 17.3%, from $815.0 million in 2005 mostly driven by the growth in revenue. 30 Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $397.3 million, an increase of $50.6 million, or 14.6%, from $346.7 million in 2005. U.S. revenue of $204.7 million increased $33.1 million, or 19.3%, and international revenue increased $17.6 million, or 10.1%, with 63.1% reflecting growth in Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $347.5 million was up $42.5 million, or 13.9%, over $305.0 million in 2005, benefiting from higher sales of core research and data services coupled with new customer growth and lower attrition. Software revenue of $36.3 million increased $2.7 million, or 8.0%, from $33.6 million in 2005 reflecting greater demand for risk products and credit decision making software and related maintenance services. Revenue from consulting services was $13.5 million, an increase of $5.4 million, or 66.7%, from $8.1 million in 2005 reflecting an increase in the risk management needs of customers and the completion of contractual milestones. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $232.6 million in 2006, an increase of $30.2 million, or 14.9%, from $202.4 million in 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits relating to sales commissions from higher revenue coupled with additional staffing over 2005. The increase also reflects additional training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses to support business growth, as well as a $2.2 million charge in 2006 relating to a non income tax related matter. Market Risk Moodys maintains operations in 27 countries outside the United States. Approximately 33% of the Companys revenue was billed in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. Approximately 42% of the Companys expenses were incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. As such, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 35% of Moodys assets were located outside the U.S. Of Moodys aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $426.3 million at December 31, 2007, approximately $348 million was located outside the United States (with $104 million and $88 million in Luxembourg and the U.K., respectively), making the Company susceptible to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Additionally, all of Moodys aggregate short term investments of $14.7 million were located outside the United States. The effects of changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar on assets and liabilities of non U.S. operations with non U.S. functional currencies are charged or credited to the cumulative translation adjustment account in shareholders equity. Moodys cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality investment grade securities within and outside the United States. The Company manages its credit risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market mutual funds and issuers of high grade commercial paper. Short term investments primarily consist of high quality investment grade corporate bonds in Korea. The Company manages its credit risk exposure on cash equivalents and short term investments by limiting the amount it can invest with any single issuer. A portion of the Companys future billings and related revenue is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily related to the euros and British pound. Under the Companys current foreign exchange hedging program, the Company hedges a portion of foreign exchange currency risk for the purpose of reducing volatility in the Companys cash flows related to future euro and British pound billings and related revenue. Foreign exchange options are currently utilized to hedge these exposures and have maturities between one and fifteen months. As of December 2007 all contracts were set to expire at various times through March 2009 and were deemed to be highly effective under SFAS No. 133 and related accounting pronouncements. No credit losses are anticipated as the counterparties to these agreements are major financial institutions. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Companys outstanding options was recorded as an asset of $2.3 million consisting of the following notional amounts: Currency Pair of Option* Notional amount * GBP/USD &pound; 7.9 million EUR/USD 16.7 million EUR/GBP 61.5 million * GBP(&pound;) Great Britain pounds; EUR() euros; USD($) U.S. dollars 31 Unrealized gains or losses will be recorded in other comprehensive income and, once realized, the gains or losses will be recognized as an adjustment to revenue when the billings are recognized in revenue. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the exposure to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates on Moodys foreign exchange options. A hypothetical 10% favorable change in the overall option currency portfolio would result in a gain of approximately $10 million as of December 31, 2007. The maximum loss related to an adverse change in the option currency portfolio would be $2.3 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow The Company is currently financing its operations, capital expenditures and share repurchases through cash flow from operations and from financing activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $984.0 million, $752.5 million and $707.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The Company borrowed $847.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 increased by $231.5 million compared with 2006. A decrease in net income of $52.4 million reduced cash provided by operating activities. The increase in stock based compensation expense positively impacted cash flow from operations by $13.1 million compared to net income. Accounts receivable decreased approximately 7% in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with an increase of approximately 13% for the year ended December 31, 2006 increasing cash flow from operations by $79.1 million compared to 2006. The impact on cash flows of excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans decreased to $52.2 million from $103.2 million in 2006 due to fewer stock option exercises in 2007 compared with 2006. The favorable non cash resolution of a legacy tax matter in the second quarter of 2007 negatively impacted operating cash flow by $52.3 million compared to net income. Operating cash flow in 2006 included a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys former headquarters building. The $67.2 million reduction in cash flows from changes in other current assets is primarily due to the receipt of approximately $16 million from New D&B related to issuer based stock compensation tax deductions in 2006 and an approximate $40 million overpayment of 2007 state income taxes offset by an $8.5 million increase related to a receivable from the IRS for a legacy tax matter classified as a current asset in 2007. Furthermore, the $55.5 million change in cash flows associated with other assets is primarily due to a deposit made in the first quarter of 2006 of approximately $40 million with the IRS relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating cash flow decreased by $87.5 million due to reductions in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. This is primarily due to a decrease in net accrued income taxes of approximately $76.5 million, decreases in accrued incentive compensation of approximately $27 million and decreases in accounts payable of approximately $17 million, due to timing of payments offset by approximately $33 million in restructuring liabilities. Increases in FIN No. 48 and other non current tax and related liabilities increased cash flow from operations by approximately $83 million. Additionally, increases in the deferred rent liability contributed approximately $47 million to cash flow from operations relating primarily to the free rent period and tenant allowance on the 7WTC lease. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 increased by $44.6 million compared with 2005. Growth in net income contributed $193.1 million to cash provided by operating activities. The 2006 cash flows include a decrease relating to excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans of $103.2 million that are now classified as a cash flow from financing activities as required under SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation was presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an operating cash flow, along with other tax cash flows. The operating cash flow includes a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys headquarters building. The cash proceeds are reported as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. The change in accounts receivable is attributable to increases in revenue offset by improved collection. Additionally, Moodys deposited approximately $40 million with the IRS in the first quarter of 2006 relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. This deposit was recorded in other assets. Tax payments increased by $53 million in 2006 versus 2005 offset by increases in income taxes payable due to growth in pre tax net income. An increase in deferred revenue increased cash flow from operations by $28 million which is due to increased volume in annual and initial fees in both the ratings and research businesses. Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities was ($124.7) million, $116.1 million and ($150.4) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net maturities (investments) in short term investments, net of purchases, totaled $61.5 million, $22.5 million and ($88.9) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Capital expenditures, primarily for leasehold improvements and internal use software, totaled $181.8 million, $31.1 million and $31.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 increase relates primarily to the build out of the Companys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. The 2006 spending on acquisitions 32 was $39.2 million, which related primarily to the purchase of a 49% share in China Cheng Xin International Credit Rating Co. Ltd and the acquisition of Wall Street Analytics, Inc., net of cash acquired. The 2005 spending on acquisitions primarily related to the acquisition of Economy.com, net of cash acquired, and a contingent payment made in the second quarter of 2005 related to Korea Investors Service. The net proceeds received from the sale of the Companys former Corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006 were $163.9 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $861.5 million, $965.2 million and $666.5 million for years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company borrowed $547.4 million under its commercial paper program in 2007 to support share repurchases, build out of the new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. Additionally, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction $300.0 million aggregate principal Series 2007 1 Notes in the third quarter of 2007. Spending for share repurchases totaled $1,738.4 million, $1,093.6 million and $691.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Dividends paid were $85.2 million, $79.5 million and $60.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in dividends reflects a quarterly dividend paid of $0.08 per share 2007 versus a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in 2006 and $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in the subsequent quarters per share in 2005. These amounts were offset in part by proceeds from employee stock based compensation plans of $65.9 million, $105.3 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans were $52.2 million and $103.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decreases in proceeds from stock plans and the excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation plans is due primarily to a decrease in stock option exercise activity in 2007 compared to the same period in 2006. Future Cash Requirements The Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months and expects to have positive operating cash flow for fiscal year 2008. Cash requirements for periods beyond the next twelve months will depend, among other things, on the Companys profitability and its ability to manage working capital requirements. The Company currently expects to use a significant portion of its cash flow to continue its share repurchase program. The Company implemented a systematic share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2005 through an SEC Rule 10b5 1 program. Moodys may also purchase opportunistically when conditions warrant. The Companys intent is to return capital to shareholders in a way that serves their long term interests. As a result, Moodys share repurchase activity will continue to vary from quarter to quarter. The Company may borrow from various sources to fund share repurchases. On June 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program of which Moodys has approximately $24 million remaining at December 31, 2007. On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase program that the Company will begin utilizing upon completion of the 2006 authority. There is no established expiration date for either of these authorizations. At December 31,2007 the Company had $551.9 million, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million, of outstanding commercial paper and issued $300.0 million of 6.06% Series 2007 1 Notes, as described in the Indebtedness section below, to support share repurchases, the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. The Company entered into an operating lease agreement (the Lease) commencing on October 20, 2006 with 7 World Trade Center, LLC for 589,945 square feet of an office building located at 7WTC at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, which is serving as Moodys new headquarters. The Lease has an initial term of approximately 21 years with a total of 20 years of renewal options. The total base rent of the lease over its initial 21 year term is approximately $536 million including rent credits from the World Trade Center Rent Reduction Program promulgated by the Empire State Development Corporation. On March 28, 2007, the lease agreement was amended for the Company to lease an additional 78,568 square feet at 7WTC. The additional base rent is approximately $106 million over a 20 year term. The Company plans to incur approximately $21 million of costs to complete the build out its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC over the next year. On October 24, 2007, the Company announced a restructuring plan that would reduce global headcount, terminate certain technology contracts and consolidate certain corporate functions in response to the Companys reorganization announced on August 7, 2007 and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors. Included in the $50.0 million restructuring charge is $7.0 million of non cash settlements relating to pension curtailments and stock based compensation award modifications for certain terminated employees. During 2007, the Company made cash payments of $1.8 million relating to the $43.0 million cash component of the restructuring liability and expects cash outlays of approximately $31 million and $2 million during 2008 and 2009, respectively. The remaining liability of $8.1 million relates to annuity payments that will be made in connection with the Companys 33 pension and other post retirement benefit plans for certain terminated employees, which will commence when the employees reach retirement age beginning in 2009 and continue until all payments have been made. The Company also intends to use a portion of its cash flow to pay dividends. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at this rate, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company will from time to time consider cash outlays for acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses, products, services and technologies. The Company may also be required to make future cash outlays to pay to New D&B its share of potential liabilities related to the legacy tax and legal contingencies that are discussed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Contingencies. These potential cash outlays could be material and might affect liquidity requirements, and they could cause the Company to pursue additional financing. There can be no assurance that financing to meet cash requirements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. Indebtedness The following table summarizes total indebtedness as of December 31: 2007 2006 Notes payable: Senior notes, due 2015, 4.98% $ 300.0 $ 300.0 Senior notes, due 2017, 6.06% 300.0 Commercial paper, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million 551.9 Total 1,151.9 300.0 Less: current portion (551.9 ) Total long term debt $ 600.0 $ 300.0 Notes Payable On September 7, 2007, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.06% Series 2007 1 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017 (Series 2007 1 Notes) pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement (2007 Agreement). The Series 2007 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 6.06%, payable semi annually on March 7 and September 7 of each year. Under the terms of the 2007 Agreement, the Company may, from time to time within five years, in its sole discretion, issue additional series of senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million pursuant to one or more supplements to the 2007 Agreement. The Company may prepay the Series 2007 1 Notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a prepayment premium based on the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled payments, over the prepaid principal (Make Whole Amount). The 2007 Agreement contains covenants that limit the ability of the Company, and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: enter into transactions with affiliates, dispose of assets, incur or create liens, enter into any sale leaseback transactions, or merge with any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets. The Company must also not permit its total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio to exceed 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement (2005 Agreement) and issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Series 2005 1 Senior Unsecured Notes (Series 2005 1 Notes). The Series 2005 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.98%, payable semi annually on March 30 and September 30. The proceeds from the sale of the Series 2005 1 Notes were used to refinance $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding 7.61% Senior Notes which matured on September 30, 2005. In the event that Moodys pays all, or part, of the Series 2005 1 Notes in advance of their maturity (the Prepaid Principal), such prepayment will be subject to a penalty based on the Make Whole Amount. The Series 2005 1 Notes are subject to certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreements. 34 Commercial Paper On October 3, 2007, the Company entered into a commercial paper program (the Program) on a private placement basis under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes (the CP Notes) up to a maximum amount outstanding at any time of $1.0 billion. Amounts available under the Program may be re borrowed. The Program is supported by the Companys 2007 Facility (see Credit Facilities section below), if at any time funds are not available on favorable terms under the Program. The maturities of the CP Notes will vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The CP Notes will be sold at a discount from par or, alternatively, will be sold at par and bear interest at rates that will vary based upon market conditions at the time of the issuance. The rates of interest will depend on whether the CP Notes will be a fixed or floating rate. The interest on a floating rate may be based on the following: (a) certificate of deposit rate; (b) commercial paper rate; (c) the federal funds rate; (d) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR); (e) prime rate; (f) treasury rate; or (g) such other base rate as may be specified in a supplement. The Program contains certain events of default including, among other things: non payment of principal, interest or fees; violation of covenants; invalidity of any loan document; material judgments; and bankruptcy and insolvency events, subject in certain instances to cure periods. Credit Facilities On September 28, 2007, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion five year senior, unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2007 Facility), expiring in September 2012, which replaces both the $500.0 million Interim Facility, which was set to expire in February 2008 as well as the $500.0 million five year revolving credit facility entered into on September 1, 2004 and scheduled to expire in September 2009. The 2007 Facility will serve, in part, to support the commercial paper program discussed above. Interest on borrowings is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 16.0 to 40.0 basis points of the facility amount depending on the Companys ratio of total indebtedness to EBITDA (Earnings Coverage Ratio). The Company also pays quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the 2007 Facility. The quarterly fees for the 2007 Facility can range from 4.0 to 10.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also pays a utilization fee of 5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeds 50% of the total facility. The 2007 Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreement. The 2007 Facility also contains financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain an Earnings Coverage Ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the 2007 Facility. On August 8, 2007, the Company entered into an interim loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million that was to expire on February 8, 2008 (the Interim Facility). Interest on borrowings was payable at rates that were based on LIBOR plus a premium that could range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points of the Interim Facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the Interim Facility. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the Interim Facility and repaid the $100.0 million outstanding balance. On September 1, 2004, Moodys entered into a five year senior, unsecured bank revolving credit facility (the 2004 Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $160.0 million that was scheduled to expire in September 2009. Interest on the borrowings under the 2004 Facility was payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio, as defined in the related agreement. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeded 50% of the total facility. In October 2006, Moodys amended the 2004 Facility by increasing the limit on sale proceeds resulting from a sale leaseback transaction of its former corporate headquarters building from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. Additionally, the restriction on liens to secure indebtedness related to the building sale was also increased from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. The Company also increased the expansion feature of the 2004 Facility from $80.0 million to $340.0 million, subject to obtaining commitments for the incremental capacity at the time of draw down from the existing lenders. In April 2007, after receipt of all necessary approvals relating to the execution of the expansion feature, borrowing capacity under the 2004 Facility was increased to $500.0 million. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of the 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the 2004 Facility and repaid the $400.0 million outstanding balance. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all covenants contained within the note agreements and the 2007 Facility described above. 35 Interest (expense) income, net Interest (expense) income, net consists of: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Income $ 19.3 $ 18.2 $ 26.0 Expense on borrowings (40.7 ) (15.2 ) (21.0 ) Expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities (21.5 ) Reversal of interest (a) 17.5 Capitalized 1.1 Interest (expense) income, net $ (24.3 ) $ 3.0 $ 5.0 (a) Represents a reversal of accrued interest related to the favorable resolution of a legacy tax matter, as further discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Interest paid on all borrowings was $32.5 million, $14.9 million and $22.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Management may consider pursuing additional long term financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for operations, share repurchase and other strategic opportunities, which would result in higher financing costs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Moodys did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities where Moodys is the primary beneficiary, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, Moodys is not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if it had engaged in such relationships. Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due under the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less Than 1Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Over 5Years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 1,071.1 $ 72.6 $ 113.7 $ 105.3 $ 779.5 Notes payable (2) 910.6 33.2 66.2 66.2 745.0 Purchase obligations (3) 39.0 30.1 7.9 1.0 Borrowings under commercial paper program (4) 552.6 552.6 Capital lease obligations 4.5 1.7 2.8 Other (5) 59.9 2.6 12.1 9.2 36.0 Total (6) $ 2,637.7 $ 692.8 $ 202.7 $ 181.7 $ 1,560.5 (1) Includes rent payments relating to the 165,000 square foot, 17.5 year operating lease agreement entered into on February 6, 2008 to occupy six floors of an office tower in the Canary Wharf section of London, England. The Company will begin making rent payments in March 2011. (2) Includes $9.3 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2007 and $301.3 million of interest that will accrue and be due from January 1, 2008 through September 30, 2015 and 2017, when the Series 2005 1 Notes and the Series 2007 1 Notes mature, respectively. (3) Purchase obligations include approximately $21 million, excluding approximately $0.8 million of accrued liabilities, related to the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. Purchase obligations also include contracts for professional services, data processing and telecommunication services, and data back up facilities. (4) Includes $1.3 million of interest related to CP Notes outstanding under its commercial paper program at December 31, 2007 that will be due and paid at various times through December 31, 2008. As of February 27, 2008, the Company had approximately $746 million of CP Notes outstanding under the Program. See Indebtedness for further information. 36 (5) Includes $59.9 million of projected benefit payments relating to the Companys unfunded Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefit Plans described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. (6) The table above does not include the Companys net long term tax liabilities of $118.3 million, since the expected cash outflow of such amounts by period cannot be reasonably estimated. 2008 Outlook Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including Moodys KMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys new initiatives in fixed income pricing and valuations will also be captured within Moodys Analytics. Moodys outlook for 2008 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors, including interest rates, corporate profitability and business investment spending, merger and acquisition activity, consumer spending, residential mortgage borrowing and refinancing activity, securitization levels and capital markets issuance. There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and, if actual conditions differ from these assumptions, Moodys results for the year may differ from our current outlook. For Moodys overall, full year 2008 revenue is expected to decline in the low double digit percent range. This decline assumes foreign currency translation in 2008 at current exchange rates. The Company anticipates a weak first half of 2008 with improvement in market liquidity and issuance conditions later in the year. Under this scenario, Moodys first half 2008 performance is likely to reflect unusually weak market conditions, as well as challenging year on year comparisons against the first half of 2007 when the Company delivered record performance. The Company expects the full year 2008 operating margin to decline to the mid to high forties percent range, due primarily to lower ratings revenue. Full year expenses are expected to decrease approximately 5%, primarily due to the 2007 restructuring charge of $50.0 million, as well as expense savings from the restructuring actions, partially offset by investments in the growth areas of our business. Earnings per share for 2008 are projected in a range from $2.17 to $2.25, which reflects the estimated impact of share buy backs under the Companys share repurchase program. For the global Moodys Investors Service business, the Company expects revenue for the full year 2008 to decline in the mid to high teens percent range. Within the U.S., the Company projects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the mid twenties percent range for the full year 2008. In the U.S. structured finance business, Moodys expects revenue for the year to decline in the low to mid forties percent range, reflecting double digit percent declines in most asset classes, led by residential mortgage backed securities and credit derivatives ratings. In the U.S. corporate finance business, the Company expects revenue to decrease in the low teens percent range for the year driven by declines across all asset classes. In both the U.S. financial institutions and public, project and infrastructure finance sectors, Moodys projects revenue in 2008 to grow in the low single digit percent range. Outside the U.S. the Company expects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the low single digit percent range. Good growth from rating financial institutions; public, project and infrastructure finance; and corporate securities is expected to be more than offset by a decline in structured finance ratings revenue, primarily in Europe. For Moodys Analytics, the Company expects revenue growth in the mid teens percent range. In the U.S., growth is projected to be in the low teens percent range while outside the U.S., revenue is expected to increase in the high teens percent range. Growth in the subscription businesses is expected in the mid teens range, reflecting continued demand for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics, and the impact of our newly formed pricing and valuation business. In the consulting business, Moodys anticipates very strong growth, reflecting a robust pipeline of professional services engagements and credit training projects. There is considerable demand for Moodys expertise in credit education, risk modeling, and scorecard development as customers implement more sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. In the software business, the Company expects revenue to be flat versus 2007, as customers begin to migrate to new generation software platforms. 37 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value, and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is expected to increase the consistency of fair value measurements and applies only to those measurements that are already required or permitted to be measured at fair value by other accounting standards. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 2 (FSP FAS 157 2), which partially defers the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company has implemented the deferral provisions of FSP FAS 157 2 and as a result has partially implemented the provisions of SFAS No. 157 as of January 1, 2008. The partial implementation of SFAS 157 does not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations and the Company will apply, as of January 1, 2009, the provisions of SFAS No, 157 to its non financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination and not subsequently remeasured at fair value, non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value for a goodwill impairment assessment, nonfinancial long lived assets measured at fair value for an asset impairment assessment, and asset retirement obligations initially measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards which require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each reporting period. Items eligible for fair value election include recognized financial assets and liabilities such as equity method investments and investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values, written loan commitments, and certain warranties and insurance contracts where a warrantor or insurer is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, the election must be applied to individual instruments with certain restrictions, is irrevocable and must be applied to an entire instrument. Any upfront costs and fees related to the item elected for fair value must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred. At the implementation date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the implementation of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2008. The Company is currently determining the impact, if any, that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No.141R). SFAS No. 141R extends its applicability to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses and establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non controlling interest in the acquiree, and the goodwill acquired. SFAS 141R also expands disclosure requirements to improve the statement users abilities to evaluate the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of implementing SFAS No. 141R will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No.160). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parents ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS No. 160 also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners and requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be reported as equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of implementing SFAS No. 160 will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Contingencies From time to time, Moodys is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation that are incidental to the Companys business, including claims based on ratings assigned by Moodys. Moodys is also subject to ongoing tax audits in the normal course of business. Management periodically assesses the Companys liabilities and contingencies based upon the latest information available. 38 Moodys discloses material pending legal proceedings, other than routine litigation incidental to Moodys business, material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities and other pending matters that it may determine to be appropriate. For matters, except those related to income taxes, where it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company has recorded liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and periodically adjusts these as appropriate. When sufficient uncertainties exist, related to the outcome and or the amount or range of loss, management does not record a liability but discloses the contingency if significant. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities accordingly. For income tax matters, the Company employs the prescribed methodology of FIN No. 48, implemented as of January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained, based on its technical merits, as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities and is cooperating with those inquiries. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described below, in the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, although it is possible that the effect could be material to the Companys consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Legacy Contingencies Moodys continues to have exposure to certain potential liabilities assumed in connection with the 2000 Distribution (Legacy Contingencies). The following description of the relationships among Moodys, New D&B and their predecessor entities is important in understanding the Legacy Contingencies that relate to tax matters (Legacy Tax Matters). In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, ACNielsen Corporation and Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant). In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into two separate public companies: Old D&B and R.H. Donnelley Corporation. During 1998, Cognizant separated into two separate public companies: IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (NMR). In September 2000, Old D&B separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moodys, as further described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in the normal course of business, including through tax free restructurings of both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to normal review by tax authorities. Old D&B and its predecessors also entered into a series of agreements covering the sharing of any liabilities for payment of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on certain tax matters, and certain other potential tax liabilities, all as described in such agreements. Further, in connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moodys have agreed on the financial responsibility for any potential liabilities related to Legacy Tax Matters. Settlement agreements were executed with the IRS in 2005 regarding Legacy Tax Matters for the years 1989 1990 and 1993 1996. As of December 31, 2007, the Company continues to carry a liability of $1.8 million with respect to these matters. With respect to these settlement agreements, Moodys and New D&B believe that IMS Health and NMR did not pay their full share of the liability to the IRS pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements among the parties. Moodys and New D&B paid these amounts to the IRS on their behalf, and have been unable to resolve this dispute with IMS Health and NMR. As a result, Moodys and New D&B have commenced arbitration proceedings against IMS Health and NMR to collect a total of approximately $11 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1989 1990 matter. Moodys and New D&B may also commence an arbitration proceeding to collect a total of $14.5 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1993 1996 matter. Moodys cannot predict the outcome of these matters with any certainty. Amortization Expense Deductions and 1997 2002 IRS Deficiency Notices (the Notices) This legacy tax matter, which was affected by developments in June 2007 as further described below, involves a partnership transaction which resulted in amortization expense deductions on the tax returns of Old D&B since 1997. IRS audits of Old D&Bs and New D&Bs tax returns for the years 1997 through 2002 concluded in June 2007 without any disallowance of the amortization expense deductions, or any other adjustments to income related to this partnership 39 transaction. These audits did result in the IRS issuing the Notices for other tax issues for the 1997 2000 years aggregating $9.5 million in tax and penalties, plus statutory interest of approximately $7 million, which will be apportioned among Moodys, New D&B, IMS Health and NMR pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements. Moodys share of this assessment is anticipated to be $7.2 million including interest, net of tax. In November 2007, the IRS assessed the tax and penalties and used a portion of the deposit discussed below to satisfy the assessment, together with interest. The Company believes it has meritorious grounds to challenge the IRSs actions and is evaluating its alternatives for further actions to recover these amounts The absence of any tax deficiencies in the Notices for the amortization expense deductions for the years 1997 through 2000 and in companion Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002, combined with the expiration of the statute of limitations for 1997 through 2002, for issues not assessed, resulted in Moodys recording an earnings benefit of $52.3 million in its second quarter. This is comprised of two components, as follows: (i) a reversal of a tax liability of $27.3 million related to the period from 1997 through the Distribution Date, reducing the provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007; and (ii) a reduction of accrued interest expense of $17.5 million ($10.6 million, net of tax) and an increase in other non operating income of $14.4 million, relating to amounts due to New D&B, for the year ended December 31, 2007. On the Distribution Date in 2000, New D&B paid Moodys $55.0 million for 50% of certain anticipated future tax benefits of New D&B through 2012. It is possible that IRS audits of New D&B for tax years after 2002 could result in income adjustments with respect to the amortization expense deductions of this partnership transaction. In the event these tax benefits are not claimed or otherwise not realized by New D&B, or there is an audit adjustment, Moodys would be required, pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, to repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted value of its share of the related future tax benefits and its share of any tax liability that New D&B incurs . As of December 31, 2007, Moodys liability with respect to this matter totaled $52.8 million. In March 2006, New D&B and Moodys each deposited $39.8 million with the IRS in order to stop the accrual of statutory interest on potential tax deficiencies with respect to the 1997 through 2002 tax years. In July 2007, New D&B and Moodys commenced procedures to recover approximately $56 million of these deposits ($24.4 million for New D&B and $31.6 million for Moodys), which represents the excess of the original deposits over the total of the deficiencies asserted in the Notices and in companion Statutory Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002. As noted above, in November 2007 the IRS used $7.9 million of Moodys portion of the deposit to satisfy an assessment and related interest. Additionally, in January 2008 the IRS paid Moodys $8.5 million in connection with this matter. At December 31, 2007, Moodys has recorded liabilities for Legacy Tax Matters totaling $56.7 million. This includes liabilities and accrued interest due to New D&B arising from the 2000 Distribution Agreement. It is possible that the ultimate liability for Legacy Tax Matters could be greater than the liabilities recorded by the Company, which could result in additional charges that may be material to Moodys future reported results, financial position and cash flows. Dividends During 2007, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.32 during the year. During 2006, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.28 during the year. During 2005, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in each of the three subsequent quarters, per share of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.2025 during the year. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at the rate noted above, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 40 Common Stock Information The Companys common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol MCO. The table below indicates the high and low sales price of the Companys common stock and the dividends declared for the periods shown. The number of registered shareholders of record at January 31, 2008 was 3,522. Price Per Share DividendsDeclaredPer Share High Low 2006: First quarter $ 71.95 $ 61.09 $ 0.07 Second quarter 73.29 49.77 0.07 Third quarter 65.84 49.76 0.07 Fourth quarter 71.70 60.60 0.08 Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 0.29 2007: First quarter $ 76.09 $ 58.65 $ 0.08 Second quarter 73.69 60.60 0.08 Third quarter 63.70 42.42 0.08 Fourth quarter 55.99 35.05 0.10 Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 0.34 Forward Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and prospects for the Companys business and operations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. Those statements appear at various places throughout this annual report on Form 10 K, including in the sections entitled Outlook and Contingencies under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, commencing on page 17 of this annual report on Form 10 K, under Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10 K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, will, predict, potential, continue, strategy, aspire, target, forecast, project, estimate, should, could, may and similar expressions or words and variations thereof relating to the Companys views on future events, trends and contingencies. Stockholders and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. The forward looking statements and other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10 K, and the Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly supplement, update or revise such statements on a going forward basis, whether as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying examples of factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated by these forward looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, matters that could affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and or global capital markets, including credit quality concerns, changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets; concerns in the marketplace affecting our credibility or otherwise affecting market perceptions of the integrity or utility of independent agency ratings; increased pricing pressure from competitors and or customers; the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; the impact of regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and the potential for new U.S., state and local legislation and regulations; the potential for increased competition and regulation in foreign jurisdictions; exposure to litigation related to our rating opinions, as well as any other litigation to which the Company may be subject from time to time; the possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures; failures or malfunctions of our operations and infrastructure; the outcome of any review by controlling tax authorities of the Companys global tax planning initiatives; the outcome of those legacy tax and legal contingencies that relate to the Company, its predecessors and their affiliated companies for which Moodys has assumed portions of the financial responsibility; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by financial institutions. These factors, risks and uncertainties as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause Moodys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements are described in greater detail under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10 K, elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other filings made by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated herein or therein. Stockholders and investors 41 are cautioned that the occurrence of any of these factors, risks and uncertainties may cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. New factors may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict new factors, nor can the Company assess the potential effect of any new factors on it. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption Market Risk in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K. 42 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Year Ended December 31, amounts in millions, except per share data 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Results of operations Revenue $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 $ 1,438.3 $ 1,246.6 Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses 1,035.1 898.7 756.8 617.8 550.9 Depreciation and amortization 42.9 39.5 35.2 34.1 32.6 Restructuring charge 50.0 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) Operating income 1,131.0 1,259.5 939.6 786.4 663.1 Non operating (expense) income, net (1) (14.3 ) 1.0 (4.9 ) (15.1 ) (6.7 ) Income before provision for income taxes 1,116.7 1,260.5 934.7 771.3 656.4 Provision for income taxes (2) 415.2 506.6 373.9 346.2 292.5 Net income $ 701.5 $ 753.9 $ 560.8 $ 425.1 $ 363.9 Earnings per share Basic $ 2.63 $ 2.65 $ 1.88 $ 1.43 $ 1.22 Diluted $ 2.58 $ 2.58 $ 1.84 $ 1.40 $ 1.19 Weighted average shares outstanding Basic 266.4 284.2 297.7 297.0 297.8 Diluted 272.2 291.9 305.6 304.7 304.6 Dividends declared per share $ 0.34 $ 0.29 $ 0.24 $ 0.15 $ 0.11 Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Balance sheet data Total assets $ 1,714.6 $ 1,497.7 $ 1,457.2 $ 1,389.3 $ 959.9 Long term debt (3) $ 600.0 $ 300.0 $ 300.0 $ $ 300.0 Shareholders (deficit) equity $ (783.6 ) $ 167.4 $ 309.4 $ 317.5 $ (32.1 ) (1) The 2007 amount includes a $31.9 million benefit related to the resolution of certain legacy tax matters, and the 2003 amount includes a gain of $13.6 million on an insurance recovery related to the September 11th tragedy. (2) The 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounts include net benefits of $20.4 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively and the 2004 and 2003 amounts include expenses of $30.0 million and $16.2 million, respectively, relating to certain legacy tax matters. (3) At December 31, 2004, the notes payable scheduled to mature in September 2005 were classified as a current liability and the 2007 amount includes the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes issued in September 2007. 16 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10 K. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains Forward Looking Statements. See Forward Looking Statements commencing on page 41 and Item 1A. Risk Factors commencing on page 10 for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and other factors associated with these statements. The Company Except where otherwise indicated, the terms Moodys and the Company refer to Moodys Corporation and its subsidiaries. Moodys is a provider of (i) credit ratings and related research, data and analytical tools, (ii) quantitative credit risk measures, risk scoring software, and credit portfolio management solutions and (iii) beginning in January 2008, fixed income pricing data and valuation models. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and Moodys KMV (MKMV). Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys Investors Service publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit obligors and credit obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. It also publishes investor oriented credit information, research and economic commentary, including in depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, special comments and credit opinion handbooks. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Prior to September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Old D&B). On September 8, 2000, the Board of Directors of Old D&B approved a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies the Company and The New D&B Corporation (New D&B). On September 30, 2000 (the Distribution Date), Old D&B distributed to its shareholders all of the outstanding shares of New D&B common stock (the 2000 Distribution). New D&B comprised the business of Old D&Bs Dun & Bradstreet operating company (the D&B Business). The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management services (the Moodys Business) and was renamed Moodys Corporation. New D&B is the accounting successor to Old D&B, which was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on April 8, 1998. Old D&B began operating as an independent publicly owned corporation on July 1, 1998 as a result of its June 30, 1998 spin off (the 1998 Distribution) from the corporation now known as R.H. Donnelley Corporation and previously known as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Donnelley). Old D&B became the accounting successor to Donnelley at the time of the 1998 Distribution. Prior to the 1998 Distribution, Donnelley was the parent holding company for subsidiaries then engaged in the businesses currently conducted by New D&B, Moodys and Donnelley. Prior to November 1, 1996, it also was the parent holding company of subsidiaries conducting business under the names Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant) and ACNielsen Corporation (ACNielsen). On that date Donnelley effected a spin off of the capital stock of Cognizant and ACNielsen to its stockholders (the 1996 Distribution). Cognizant subsequently changed its name to Nielsen Media Research, Inc. in connection with its 1998 spin off of the capital stock of IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health). For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a distribution agreement, tax allocation agreement, employee benefits agreement, shared transaction services agreement, insurance and risk management services agreement, data services agreement and transition services agreement. Detailed descriptions of the 1996, 1998 and 2000 Distributions are contained in the Companys 2000 annual report on Form 10 K, filed on March 15, 2001. 17 Critical Accounting Estimates Moodys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based on the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires Moodys to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These estimates are based on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, Moodys evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable allowances, contingencies, goodwill and intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefits and stock based compensation. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting estimates are considered critical because they are particularly dependent on managements judgment about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made and changes to those estimates could have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Revenue Recognition In recognizing revenue related to ratings, Moodys uses judgments to allocate billed revenue between ratings and the future monitoring of ratings in cases where the Company does not charge ongoing monitoring fees for a particular issuer. These judgments are not dependent on the outcome of future uncertainties, but rather relate to allocating revenue across accounting periods. In such cases, the Company defers portions of rating fees that it estimates will be attributed to future monitoring activities and recognizes the deferred revenue ratably over the estimated monitoring periods. The portion of the revenue to be deferred is based upon a number of factors, including the estimated fair market value of the monitoring services charged for similar securities or issuers. The monitoring period over which the deferred revenue will be recognized is determined based on factors such as the estimated lives of the rated securities. Currently, the estimated monitoring periods range from one to ten years. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue included approximately $54 million, $47 million and $36 million, respectively, related to such monitoring fees. Additionally, in the case of commercial mortgage backed securities, derivatives, international residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities, issuers can elect to pay the monitoring fees upfront. These fees are deferred and recognized over the future monitoring periods, ranging from nine to 46 years, which are based on the expected lives of the rated securities. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue related to these securities was approximately $86 million, $72 million and $57 million, respectively. Moodys estimates revenue for ratings of commercial paper for which, in addition to a fixed annual monitoring fee, issuers are billed quarterly based on amounts outstanding. Revenue is accrued each quarter based on estimated amounts outstanding and is billed when actual data is available. The estimate is determined based on the issuers most recent reported quarterly data. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, accounts receivable included approximately $38 million, $34 million and $31 million, respectively, related to accrued commercial paper revenue. Historically, the Company has not had material differences between the estimated revenue and the actual billings. Accounts Receivable Allowance Moodys records, as reductions of revenue, provisions for estimated future adjustments to customer billings based on historical experience and current conditions. Such provisions are reflected as additions to the accounts receivable allowance. Adjustments to and write offs of accounts receivable are charged against the allowance. Moodys evaluates its accounts receivable by reviewing and assessing historical collection and adjustment experience and the current status of customer accounts. Moodys also considers the economic environment of the customers, both from an industry and geographic perspective, in evaluating the need for allowances. Based on its reviews, Moodys establishes or adjusts allowances as considered appropriate in the circumstance. This process involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and could involve significant dollar amounts. Accordingly, Moodys results of operations can be affected by adjustments to the allowance. Management believes that the allowance for uncollectible accounts is adequate to cover anticipated adjustments and write offs under current conditions. However, significant changes in any of the above factors, or actual write offs or adjustments that differ from the estimated amounts could result in revenue adjustments that are greater or less than Moodys estimates. In each of 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company adjusted its provision rates and its allowances to reflect its current estimate of the appropriate level of accounts receivable allowance. Contingencies Accounting for contingencies, including those matters described in the Contingencies section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations, commencing on page 38 is highly subjective 18 and requires the use of judgments and estimates in assessing their magnitude and likely outcome. In many cases, the outcomes of such matters will be determined by third parties, including governmental or judicial bodies. The provisions made in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the related disclosures, represent managements best estimates of the then current status of such matters and their potential outcome based on a review of the facts and in consultation with outside legal counsel where deemed appropriate. The Company regularly reviews contingencies and as additional information becomes available may, in the future, adjust its associated liabilities. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on Moodys future reported results and financial position. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the provision for income taxes reflected credits of $27.3 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, due to changes in the Companys liabilities for legacy income tax exposures that were assumed by Moodys in connection with its separation from Old D&B in October 2000. These tax matters are more fully described under the caption Legacy Contingencies within Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Moodys evaluates its goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill requires that the Company make important assumptions and judgments about future operating results and cash flows as well as terminal values and discount rates. In estimating future operating results and cash flows, Moodys considers internal budgets and strategic plans, expected long term growth rates, and the effects of external factors and market conditions. If actual future operating results and cash flows or external conditions differ from the Companys judgments, or if changes in assumed terminal values or discount rates are made, an impairment charge may be necessary to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, which charge could be material to the Companys financial position and results of operations. Amortizable intangible assets are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Restructuring Charge The Company has engaged, and may continue to engage, in restructuring actions, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee benefit costs, contract termination costs and asset impairments. If the actual amounts differ from these estimates, the amount of the restructuring charge could be impacted. For a full description of Moodys restructuring actions, refer to the Results of Operations section below and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefits The expenses, assets, liabilities and obligations that Moodys reports for pension and other post retirement benefits are dependent on many assumptions concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These assumptions include the following: future compensation increases, based on the Companys long term actual experience and future outlook long term return on pension plan assets, based on historical portfolio results and the expected future average annual return for each major asset class within the plans portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed income investments) future healthcare cost trends, based on historical market data, near term outlooks and assessments of likely long term trends discount rates, based on current yields on high grade corporate long term bonds The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Companys benefit obligations as of December 31, 2007 was derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares the plans projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank pension discount curve. The cash flows are then discounted back to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. Moodys major assumptions vary by plan and assumptions used are set forth in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. In determining these assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries and other advisors as deemed appropriate. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in its calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions could have a significant effect on the expenses, assets and liabilities related to the Companys pension and other post retirement benefits. 19 When actual plan experience differs from the assumptions used, actuarial gains or losses arise. To the extent the total outstanding gain or loss exceeds a corridor threshold as defined in SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87), the excess is subject to amortization in annual expense over the estimated average future working lifetime of active plan participants. For Moodys pension and other post retirement benefit plans, the total losses as of December 31, 2007 which have not been recognized in annual expense are $19.0 million and in 2008, Moodys expects amortization of actuarial losses to be immaterial. For Moodys funded pension plan, the differences between the expected long term rate of return assumption and actual experience could also affect the net periodic pension expense. As permitted under SFAS No. 87, the Company spreads the impact of asset experience over a five year period for purposes of calculating the market related value of assets which is used in determining the expected return on assets component of annual expense and in calculating the total unrecognized gain or loss subject to amortization. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has an unrecognized asset gain of $4.1 million, of which $1.7 million will be recognized in the market related value of assets that is used to calculate the expected return on assets component of 2009 expense. The table below shows the estimated effect that a one percentage point decrease in each of these assumptions will have on Moodys 2008 operating income (dollars in millions). These effects have been calculated using the Companys current projections of 2008 assets, liabilities, obligations and expenses related to pension and other post retirement plans, which could change as updated data becomes available. Assumption Used for2008 Estimated Impact on2008 Operating Income (Decrease)/Increase Discount Rate* 6.45% / 6.35 % $ (5.8 ) Weighted Average Assumed Compensation Growth Rate 4.00 % $ 0.7 Assumed Long Term Rate of Return on Pension Assets 8.35 % $ (1.2 ) * Discount rates of 6.45% and 6.35% are used for pension plans and other post retirement plans, respectively. A one percentage point increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates will not affect 2008 projected expenses. Based on current projections, the Company estimates that expenses related to pension and post retirement plans will be approximately $13 million in 2008 compared with $16.2 million in 2007, excluding the costs of curtailment and special termination benefits of $10.8 million in 2007. The expected expense decrease in 2008 reflects the effects of higher discount rates, lower amortization of actuarial losses and reduction in workforce due to restructuring, which are partially offset by lower plan asset gains. Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, the Company implemented, under the modified prospective application method, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R). Under this pronouncement, companies are required to record compensation expense for all share based payment award transactions granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. This includes shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. Previously, on January 1, 2003, the Company implemented, on a prospective basis, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model that uses assumptions and estimates that the Company believes are reasonable. Some of the assumptions and estimates, such as share price volatility and expected option holding period, are based in part on Moodys experience during the period since becoming a public company, which is limited. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could produce materially different estimated fair values for option awards and related expense. An increase in the following assumptions would have had the following estimated effect on operating income in 2007 (dollars in millions): Assumption Used Increase inAssumption Estimated Impact onOperating Income in 2007Increase/(Decrease) Average Expected Dividend Yield 2003 2007 grants 0.41% 0.52% 0.10 % $ 1.2 Average Expected Share Price Volatility 2003 2007 grants 23% 30% 5 % $ (4.6 ) Expected Option Holding Period 2003 2007 grants 5.0 6.0 years 1.0 year $ (3.9 ) 20 Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The Companys tax assets and liabilities are affected by the amounts charged for service provided and expenses incurred as well as other tax matters such as inter company transactions. The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Therefore, income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. Moodys is subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions which involve legacy and other tax matters. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of such audits in order to determine the appropriateness of its FIN No. 48 tax liabilities. On January 1, 2007, upon the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company implemented the accounting policy to classify interest related to income taxes as a component of interest expense in the Companys consolidated financial statements and to classify associated penalties, if any, as part of other non operating expenses. Prior to the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company had classified interest related to income taxes and associated penalties as components of income tax expense. In accordance with FIN No. 48, prior period financial statements have not been reclassified for this change. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Upon the initial implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company recorded a reduction of its January 1, 2007 retained earnings of $43.3 million, which is comprised of $32.9 million of tax and accrued interest of $17.3 million ($10.4 million, net of tax). As the determination of FIN No. 48 liabilities and associated interest and penalties requires significant estimates to be made by the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and thus, the eventual outcomes could have a material impact on the Companys net income or financial condition. Other Estimates In addition, there are other accounting estimates within Moodys consolidated financial statements, including recoverability of deferred tax assets, anticipated dividend distributions from non U.S. subsidiaries and valuation of investments in affiliates. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on Moodys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact Moodys. Operating Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. See Reorganization and New Segments section below. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and MKMV. Moodys Investors Service consisted of (i) four rating groups structured finance, corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign risk, and public finance that generate revenue principally from the assignment of credit ratings to issuers and issues of fixed income obligations in the debt markets, and (ii) research, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of investor oriented credit information research, data and other analytical tools that are produced principally by the rating groups. For presentation purposes, Europe represents Europe, the Middle East and Africa and public finance represents U.S. public finance. Given the dominance of Moodys Investors Service to Moodys overall results, the Company does not separately measure or report corporate expenses, nor are such expenses allocated between the Companys business segments. Accordingly, all corporate expenses are included in operating income of the Moodys Investors Service segment and none have been allocated to the MKMV segment. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services, including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. 21 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Company Results Moodys revenue for 2007 totaled $2,259.0 million, an increase of $221.9 million, or 10.9%, from $2,037.1 million for the same period in 2006. The main contributors to this growth were the corporate finance and research lines of business, which increased $85.3 million, or 22.4%, and $69.8 million, or 27.4%, respectively. MKMV revenue contributed 5.4% of the Companys year over year growth, driven by the software and risk subscriptions businesses. Revenue in the United States was $1,361.8 million in 2007, an increase of $84.0 million, or 6.6%, from $1,277.8 million in 2006. Corporate finance and research revenue achieved strong growth of $51.7 million and $33.8 million, respectively, partially offset by a $29.4 million decline in structured finance, resulting from the significant slow down in the credit securitization markets. International revenue was $897.2 million in 2007, an increase of $137.9 million, or 18.2%, from $759.3 million in 2006. Revenue from the structured finance, research and corporate finance lines of business contributed approximately $39 million, $36 million and $34 million, respectively, to the increase. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $39 million of international revenue growth. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the Plan) in response to the Companys reorganization and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors, as more fully described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. A restructuring charge of $50.0 million was recorded in 2007, which consisted of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs, and $4.1 million for contract termination costs. Moodys operating and selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) of $1,035.1 million in 2007 were $136.4 million, or 15.2%, more than $898.7 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately 70% of total operating and SG&A expenses, representing approximately $77 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of approximately 3,500 employees during the year ended December 31, 2007 was approximately 13% higher than during 2006. This increase reflects the impact of hiring from late 2006 and the first half of 2007 to support business growth mainly in the U.S., Asian and European ratings businesses offset by a partial completion of the workforce reductions relating to the restructuring actions implemented in the fourth quarter of 2007. The table below shows Moodys global staffing by operating segment and geographic area at December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,869 1,284 3,153 1,843 1,106 2,949 Moodys KMV 297 122 419 304 97 401 Total 2,166 1,406 3,572 2,147 1,203 3,350 Operating expenses were $584.0 million in 2007, an increase of $44.6 million, or 8.3%, from $539.4 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised approximately 77% of the growth, reflecting normal salary increases coupled with higher staffing levels compared to prior year, partially offset by lower incentive compensation. The staffing level increase reflects hiring in the first half of 2007 to support business growth, primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount increased by approximately 14% over 2006. Non compensation expenses of $96.8 million increased $10.2 million primarily from professional service costs associated with technology investments. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $451.1 million in 2007, an increase of $91.8 million, or 25.5%, from $359.3 million in 2006. Compensation expense of $238.8 million increased $46.5 million, or 24.2%, from 2006 reflecting increased staffing levels in the corporate compliance and technology support functions coupled with the increase in stock based compensation. Non compensation expense of $212.3 million was up $45.3 million, or 27.1%, over 2006 due to higher rent and occupancy costs of $39.3 million, or 88.2%, over 2006 primarily related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7 World Trade Center (7WTC) and an increase in professional service costs of $21.6 million relating to technology investment spending and legal matters. 22 Operating income in 2007 includes a $50.0 million restructuring charge consisting of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs and $4.1 million for contract termination costs, as further discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating income of $1,131.0 million decreased $128.5 million, or 10.2%, from $1,259.5 million in 2006, which reflects approximately $21 million of foreign currency translation gains. Moodys operating margin for 2007 was 50.1% compared to 61.8% in 2006. The restructuring charge in 2007 decreased the 2007 margin by approximately 220 basis points while the gain on building sale increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Interest and other non operating (expense) income, net was $(14.3) million in 2007 compared with $1.0 million in 2006. Interest expense on borrowings was $40.7 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase was due to borrowings under the Companys credit facilities, the issuance of the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes in September 2007, and issuance under the Companys commercial paper program which was established in October 2007. Interest expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities was $21.5 million in 2007. In 2006, before Fin No. 48 became effective, interest on tax liabilities was reported as part of income tax expense, net of Federal tax benefit. There was also a $17.5 million reduction of accrued interest expense and a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income both for amounts due to New D&B related to the Amortization Expense Deductions legacy tax matter more fully described in Contingencies Legacy Contingencies, below. Interest income earned on short term investments and invested cash balances was $19.3 million and $18.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Foreign exchange gains (losses) were immaterial in both 2007 and 2006. Moodys effective tax rate was 37.2% in 2007 compared to 40.2% in 2006. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates included benefits of $27.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally in 2007, there was a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income, which was not taxable, related to legacy tax matters. These matters favorably impacted the Companys 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates by approximately 295 basis points and 30 basis points, respectively. Net income was $701.5 million in 2007, a decrease of $52.4 million, or 7.0%, from $753.9 million in 2006. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2007 were $2.63 and $2.58, respectively, compared to $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, for 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge in 2007, the gain on building sale in 2006 and legacy tax adjustments in both years, net income increased $21.8 million, or 3.3%, and earnings per share increased $0.25, or 11.1%, to $2.50 per share. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $2,104.2 million, up $209.9 million, or 11.1%, from $1,894.3 million in 2006. Ratings revenue accounted for $140.1 million of the increase, with growth largely driven by global corporate finance, and financial institutions. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $32 million of ratings revenue growth. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $465.4 million in 2007, an increase of $85.3 million, or 22.4%, from $380.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $51.7 million, or 21.0%, primarily due to exceptionally strong growth in speculative grade and bank loans in the first half of 2007 offset by revenue declines in the second half of 2007 compared to the second half of 2006. In the second half of 2007, U.S. investment grade revenue increased 57.0% compared to a 7.7% increase in the first half of 2007. International revenue of $167.1 million increased $33.6 million, or 25.2%, largely driven by growth in European investment grade and speculative grade bond issuance as well as a 71.2% increase in bank loan revenue. Global financial institutions revenue was $303.1 million, up $36.3 million, or 13.6%, from $266.8 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $15.1 million, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $165.3 million grew $21.2 million, or 14.7%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $890.6 million for 2007, an increase of 1.1%, or $10.0 million, from $880.6 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S., decreased $29.4 million, or 5.0%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half, largely from the derivatives and commercial mortgage backed securities sectors, was offset by significant revenue declines in the second half of 2007 principally in residential and commercial mortgage backed securities as well as derivatives due to the 23 credit market turmoil which began early in the third quarter of 2007. Outside the U.S., revenue of $328.5 million increased $39.4 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.7 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. International growth was 40.4% in the first half of 2007 offset by a significant slowdown in the second half of 2007 due to the credit market turmoil. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $16 million. Public finance revenue was $120.8 million, an increase of $8.5 million, or 7.6%, from $112.3 million in 2006. Revenue growth was driven by a $4.4 million, or 12.4% increase in the housing, health care, higher education, and infrastructure sectors as well as a $3.0 million, or 11.3%, increase in the municipal structured products sector. Global research revenue of $324.3 million was $69.8 million, or 27.4%, higher than the $254.5 million in 2006, as a result of strong sales of core research products and analytic services to new and existing customers. U.S. revenue of $176.0 million increased $33.8 million, or 23.8%, and international revenue increased $36.0 million, or 32.1%, with 77.5% reflecting growth in Europe. Moodys Investors Service operating, and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $922.1 million, an increase of $133.0 million, or 16.9%, from $789.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised the largest portion of the 2007 expense growth, accounting for 50.8% of the increase from 2006, reflecting normal salary increases, higher staffing primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount grew approximately 16% from 2006, as well as in the corporate compliance and technology support functions. Stock based compensation expense also contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included increased rent and occupancy costs of $39.8 million related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs of approximately $25 million primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal expenses. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $17 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,105.4 million in 2007 was down $137.5 million, or 11.1%, from $1,242.9 million in 2006. Operating income included a $45.6 million restructuring charge in 2007 and a $160.6 million gain on the sale of the former corporate headquarters building in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge and gain on building sale, operating income increased $68.7 million, or 6.3%, with foreign currency translation contributing approximately $22 million of the growth. Moodys KMV Revenue at MKMV in 2007 was $154.8 million, up $12.0 million, or 8.4%, from $142.8 million in 2006. Global revenue was driven by growth in annualized risk subscriptions and software license fees of $8.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively. U.S. revenue of $66.8 million increased 6.9% from $62.5 million in 2006. Outside the U.S., revenue increased $7.7 million, or 9.6%, over prior year. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses in 2007 including the $4.4 million restructuring charge, were $117.4 million, an increase of $7.8 million, or 7.1%, from $109.6 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased $9.9 million primarily reflecting normal salary increases coupled with increased staffing as well as an approximate $2 million reduction of certain employee obligations reflected in 2006. MKMV operating income was $25.6 million for 2007, an increase of $9.0 million, or 54.2%, compared with $16.6 million in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge, MKMVs 2007 operating income increased $13.4 million, or 80.7%, from 2006. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Total Company Results Moodys revenue in 2006 was $2,037.1 million, an increase of $305.5 million, or 17.6%, from $1,731.6 million for the same period of 2005. Moodys achieved strong revenue growth above the rate of the overall corporation in global structured finance, corporate finance and research, and below the corporate rate in financial institutions and MKMV, with a decline in revenue from public finance. 24 Revenue in the United States was $1,277.8 million in 2006, an increase of $192.4 million, or 17.7%, from $1,085.4 million in 2005. Approximately 80% of the U.S. growth was driven by structured finance and corporate finance, reflecting strong issuance across most structured asset classes as well as corporate bonds and bank loans. Research, financial institutions and MKMV contributed to year over year growth as well. Moodys international revenue was $759.3 million in 2006, an increase of $113.1 million, or 17.5%, from $646.2 million in 2005. International ratings revenue grew approximately $96 million versus the prior year, with about 80% of the growth in Europe where credit derivatives, corporate finance, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors were primary drivers of growth. European research and MKMV contributed to growth as well. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Moodys operating and SG&A expenses of $898.7 million in 2006 were $141.9 million, or 18.8%, more than $756.8 million in 2005. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately $103 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of more than 3,100 employees during the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately 15% higher than during the same prior year period. This increase includes hiring to support business growth mainly in the U.S. and European ratings businesses. The table below shows Moodys staffing at year end 2006 compared with year end 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,843 1,106 2,949 1,600 919 2,519 Moodys KMV 304 97 401 303 74 377 Total 2,147 1,203 3,350 1,903 993 2,896 Operating expenses were $539.4 million in 2006, an increase of $86.5 million, or 19.1%, from $452.9 million in 2005. The largest contributor to this increase was growth in compensation and benefits expense of approximately $76 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing and higher stock based compensation expense. Moodys global staffing reflected hiring primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses to support business growth. Stock based compensation expense increased $16.3 million year over year due, in part, to the final year of phasing in of expense over the current four year equity plan vesting period and the effects of a higher share price on the value of the 2006 equity grants versus 2005, offset by additional expense recorded in the first quarter of 2005 related to the accelerated expensing of equity grants for employees at or near retirement eligibility. Expenses for 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $359.3 million in 2006, an increase of $55.4 million, or 18.2%, from $303.9 million in 2005. Year over year expense increases included growth in compensation and benefits of $27 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing in technology support and finance functions and $6.0 million related to stock based compensation as discussed above. Additional 2006 expenses included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $12 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Operating income of $1,259.5 million in 2006, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006, rose $319.9 million, or 34.0%, from $939.6 million in 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, operating income increased 17.0%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year over year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys operating margin for 2006 was 61.8% compared to 54.3% in 2005. The gain on the sale of the building increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Moodys reported $1.0 million of interest and other non operating income (expense), net in 2006 compared with ($4.9) million in 2005. Interest expense was $15.2 million in 2006 and $21.0 million in 2005. The amounts included $14.9 million and $20.9 million of interest expense on Moodys $300 million of notes payable for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest income was $18.2 million in 2006 compared to $26.0 million in 2005. The decrease was attributed to the liquidation of investment portfolios to finance share repurchases. Foreign exchange losses were immaterial in 2006 compared to $8.2 million in 2005. The year over year change was primarily due to the British pound and euro appreciating to the U.S. dollar. Moodys effective tax rate was 40.2% in 2006 compared to 40.0% in 2005. The 2006 and 2005 effective tax rates were reduced by benefits of $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally, Moodys recognized a tax benefit of approximately $3 million related to additional foreign tax credits in the fourth quarter of 2006 and a tax benefit of $3.6 million in 2005 related to the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The 2006 rate was also favorably impacted by approximately 30 basis points due to the settlement of state tax audits. 25 Net income was $753.9 million in 2006, an increase of $193.1 million or 34.4% from $560.8 million in 2005. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2006 were $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, compared to basic and diluted earnings per share of $1.88 and $1.84, respectively, for 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, 2006 net income was $659.8 million, an increase of $99.0 million or 17.7%. Additionally, the gain contributed $0.33 and $0.32 relating to full year basic and diluted earnings per share, respectively. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,894.3 million, up $294.0 million, or 18.4%, from $1,600.3 million in 2005. Ratings revenue accounted for $254.8 million of growth with increased revenue in global structured finance, corporate finance and financial institutions and sovereign risk offsetting a decline in public finance. Double digit growth in research also contributed to the increase in revenue. Foreign currency translation positively impacted revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in revenue. Structured finance revenue was $880.6 million in 2006, an increase of $181.3 million, or 25.9%, from $699.3 million in the same period of 2005. Approximately $111 million of the increase was in the U.S., with the collateralized debt and commercial mortgage backed sectors contributing about 94% of the U.S. increase. Year over year issuance of collateralized loan obligations and cash flow resecuritizations grew, in part, to the increased repackaging of securitized assets such as consumer asset backed and mortgage backed securities, as well as bank loans in collateralized debt obligations. Strong growth in commercial real estate collateralized debt obligation issuance was a key driver of overall commercial mortgage backed issuance. International structured finance revenue grew approximately $70 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $61 million, where credit derivatives, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled approximately 87% of the European growth. Foreign currency translation for structured finance positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $3 million. Corporate finance revenue was $380.1 million in 2006, up $66.3 million, or 21.1%, from $313.8 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 20.8% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. Investment grade bond issuance increased approximately 17% and high yield bond issuance increased approximately 43%, primarily due to significant mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and second lien loan activity. International corporate finance revenue increased approximately $24 million or about 22% due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in global corporate finance revenue. Revenue in the financial institutions and sovereign risk group was $266.8 million in 2006, an increase of $12.2 million or 4.8% from $254.6 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue grew approximately $11 million, principally due to strength in insurance and real estate sectors. Internationally, revenue increased $1.4 million compared to the prior year period. Public finance revenue was $112.3 million in 2006, a decrease of $5.0 million, or 4.3%, from $117.3 million in 2005. Dollar volume issuance in the municipal bond market declined compared to 2005, primarily due to lower refinancing activity. Research revenue of $254.5 million in 2006 was $39.2 million, or 18.2%, higher than $215.3 million in 2005. Revenue grew by approximately $29 million in the U.S. and about $11 million internationally, with Europe accounting for approximately 57% of international growth. Research and analytics services accounted for approximately $17 million of global revenue growth primarily from credit research on the corporate finance, financial institutions and the structured finance related businesses. Revenue from the licensing of Moodys information to financial customers for internal use and redistribution was approximately $57 million in 2006, an increase of approximately $8 million, or about 17% higher than the prior year. Moodys Investors Service operating and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $789.1 million in 2006, an increase of $143.7 million, or 22.3%, from $645.4 million in 2005. The largest contributor to 2006 expenses was growth in compensation and benefits of approximately $110 million reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses and higher stock based compensation expense of $21.4 million. Furthermore, expenses in 2006 included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $11 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Additional increases were due to increased information technology investment spending of approximately $8 million offset by a decrease of approximately $6 million in legal fees. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Additionally, expenses in 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $4 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. 26 Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,242.9 million in 2006 was up $306.6 million or 32.7% from $936.3 million in 2005, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006. Excluding the gain, operating income increased 15.6%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year to year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys KMV MKMV revenue of $142.8 million in 2006 was $11.5 million or 8.8% more than the same period in 2005. MKMVs revenue growth reflected increased demand for credit decision making software and software related maintenance services, which grew approximately 10% or $2.7 million compared to 2005. Growth in subscriptions revenue related to credit risk assessment products grew approximately 5% or $4.9 million compared to prior year and risk services revenue increased approximately $4 million or about 36% compared to prior year. In 2006, international MKMV revenue accounted for 56% of its global revenue. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses were $109.6 million in 2006, a decrease of $1.8 million or 1.6% from $111.4 million in 2005. The 2006 expenses include a total of $3.5 million due to training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses. Additionally, 2006 expenses include a $2.2 million charge recorded in connection with a non income tax matter. The 2005 expenses included approximately $7 million related to severance costs, the write off of capitalized software development and a liability for unpaid overtime due to certain employees. MKMV operating income was $16.6 million for 2006 compared with $3.3 million in 2005. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Reorganization and New Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV, sales of credit research produced by Moodys Investors Service and the production and sales of other products and services, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics (Analytics). The aforementioned reorganization will result in the Company operating in two new reportable segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, beginning in January 2008. The tables below present operating results for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as if the new segment structure described above had been in place as of January 1, 2005. Revenue for MIS and expenses for Analytics includes an intersegment royalty charged to Analytics for the rights to use and distribute content, data and products developed by MIS. Additionally, overhead costs and corporate expenses of the Company, all of which were previously included in the former MIS segment, are allocated to each new segment based on a revenue split methodology. Overhead expenses include costs such as rent and occupancy, information technology and support staff such as finance, human resource, information technology and legal. Eliminations represents intersegment royalty revenue/expense. December 31, 2007 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1835.4 $ 479.1 $ (55.5 ) $ 2,259.0 Operating expenses 759.4 331.2 (55.5 ) 1,035.1 Restructuring charge 41.3 8.7 50.0 Depreciation and amortization 24.0 18.9 42.9 Operating income $ 1,010.7 $ 120.3 $ $ 1,131.0 27 December 31, 2006 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Corporate items/Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,685.6 $ 397.3 $ (45.8 ) $ 2,037.1 Operating expenses 666.1 278.4 (45.8 ) 898.7 Depreciation and amortization 17.3 22.2 39.5 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) (160.6 ) Operating income $ 1,002.2 $ 96.7 $ 160.6 $ 1,259.5 December 31, 2005 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,425.6 $ 346.7 $ (40.7 ) $ 1,731.6 Operating expenses 554.4 243.1 (40.7 ) 756.8 Depreciation and amortization 15.5 19.7 35.2 Operating income $ 855.7 $ 83.9 $ $ 939.6 The table below presents revenue by line of business within each new segment and the related intra segment realignment: Year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Moodys Investors Service: Structured Finance $ 885.9 $ 883.6 $ 708.7 Corporate Finance 411.5 335.9 277.4 Financial Institutions 261.7 222.1 214.0 Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance 220.8 198.2 184.8 Total third party revenue 1,779.9 1,639.8 1,384.9 Intersegment royalty 55.5 45.8 40.7 Total MIS $ 1,835.4 $ 1,685.6 $ 1,425.6 Moodys Analytics: Subscription 421.5 347.5 305.0 Consulting 18.1 13.5 8.1 Software 39.5 36.3 33.6 Total Analytics 479.1 397.3 346.7 Eliminations (55.5 ) (45.8 ) (40.7 ) Total Moodys Corporation $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 As part of the reorganization there were several realignments within the MIS lines of business. Sovereign and sub sovereign ratings which were previously part of financial institutions; infrastructure/utilities ratings, which were previously part of corporate finance; and project finance, which was previously part of structured finance, were combined with the Public Finance business to form a new line of business called Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance. In addition, real estate investment trust ratings were moved from corporate finance to the structured finance business. Within Moodys Analytics various aspects of the legacy MIS Research business and MKMV business were combined to form the subscriptions, software and consulting businesses. The subscriptions business includes credit and economic research, data and analytical models that are sold on a subscription basis; the software business includes license and maintenance fees for credit risk software products, and the consulting business includes professional services and credit training associated with risk modeling, credit scorecard development, and other specialized analytical projects, as well as credit education services that are typically sold on a per engagement basis. 28 The following is a discussion of the results of operations of the new segments, excluding the aforementioned intersegment royalty revenue and related expense, as if they were operating as of January 1, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $1,779.9 million, up $140.1 million, or 8.5%, from $1,639.8 million in 2006. Global corporate finance, financial institutions and the public, project and infrastructure finance business increased $75.6 million, $39.6 million, and $22.6 million, respectively. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $411.5 million in 2007, an increase of 22.5%, from $335.9 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $45.3 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased leveraged loan activities and growth in investment grade bond issuance. International revenue of $141.5 million increased $30.3 million, or 27.2%, largely driven by growth in European bond issuance. Global financial institutions revenue was $261.7 million, up $39.6 million or 17.8% from $222.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $18.9 million, or 18.4%, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $139.7 million grew $20.7 million, or 17.4%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $885.9 million for 2007, an increase of $2.3 million from $883.6 million in 2006. Revenue of $569.6 million in the U.S., decreased $35.5 million, or 5.9%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half of 2007, largely from the credit derivatives and commercial real estate finance sectors, which includes real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, which were offset in the second half of 2007 by declining revenue in the residential mortgage backed securities, derivatives and commercial real estate finance as a result of credit market turmoil which reduced ratable issuance volume. Outside the U.S., revenue of $316.3 million increased $37.7 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.8 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $220.8 million, an increase of $22.6 million, or 11.4%, from $198.2 million in 2006. Revenue from project and infrastructure finance of $76.1 million showed the strongest growth with an increase of $13.5 million or 21.6% over 2006, mostly from within the U.S. Revenue of $144.7 million from the public finance sector, including U.S. public finance, sovereign and sub sovereign, increased $9.1 million, or 6.7%, over prior year driven by growth in combined issuance and new money issuance. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses and a $41.3 million restructuring charge in 2007, were $800.7 million, an increase of $134.6 million, or 20.2%, from $666.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense was the largest contributor to the year over year growth reflecting increased staffing internationally to support business growth, as well as additional headcount in the corporate compliance group. Stock based compensation expense increased year over year primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included an increase in allocated expenses such as increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $955.2 million in 2007 was flat compared to 2006. Excluding the $41.3 million restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $996.5 million increased $40.1 million, or 4.2%, from $956.4 million in 2006. Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $479.1 million, an increase of $81.8 million, or 20.6%, from 2006. U.S. revenue of $242.8 million increased $38.1 million, or 18.6%, and international revenue increased $43.7 million, or 22.7%, with 90.3% of the growth from Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $421.5 million was up $74.0 million, or 21.3%, over $347.5 million in 2006, reflecting continued demand from new and existing customers for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics 29 and other offerings. Software revenue of $39.5 million increased $3.2 million, or 8.8%, from $36.3 million in 2006 primarily from additional license and maintenance fees for credit decisioning and analysis products. Revenue from consulting services grew $4.6 million, or 34.1%, due to increased demand for credit education, risk modeling and scorecard development among customers seeking to implement sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. Operating expenses in 2007 including allocated corporate expenses and the $8.7 million restructuring charge, were $284.4 million, an increase of $51.8 million, or 22.3%, from $232.6 million in 2006. The increase is a result of additional compensation due to headcount growth of 8% and higher sales commission expense resulting from better than expected revenue growth over 2006. It also reflects an increase in allocated expenses due to increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Analytics operating income of $175.8 million in 2007 increased $33.3 million, or 23.4%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Operating income included an $8.7 million restructuring charge in 2007. Excluding the restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $184.5 million increased $42.0 million, or 29.5%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,639.8 million, up $254.9 million or 18.4% from $1,384.9 million in 2005 with global structured and corporate finance accounting for $233.4 million, or 91.6%, of the growth. Structured finance revenue was $883.6 million in 2006, an increase of $174.9 million or 24.7% from $708.7 million in the same period of 2005. Revenue in the U.S. of $605.0 million increased $111.4 million, or 22.6%, with commercial real estate finance, consisting of real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, and credit derivatives contributing $22.2 million and $85.6 million of the increase, respectively. International structured finance revenue grew $63.4 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $58 million, where credit derivatives, commercial real estate finance and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled 91.7% of the European growth. Corporate finance revenue was $335.9 million in 2006, up $58.5 million or 21.1% from $277.4 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 22.3% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. International revenue of $111.2 million increased $17.5 million, or 18.7%, due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Financial institutions revenue was $222.1 million in 2006, an increase of $8.1 million or 3.8% from $214.0 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue of $103.0 million grew $8.2 million, or 8.6%, principally due to strength in the insurance sector. Internationally, revenue was relatively flat compared to 2006 with decreases in Europe being offset by increases in Asia and other international locations. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $198.2 million in 2006, an increase of $13.4 million or 7.3% from $184.8 million in 2005, reflecting good growth in the project and infrastructure sectors internationally. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $666.1 million in 2006, an increase of $111.7 million, or 20.1%, from $554.4 million in 2005. The increase is due to incentive compensation reflecting improved financial results over prior year, additional salaries and benefits expense relating to higher global staffing to support the business growth. Non compensation expense increased over 2006 reflecting additional travel, training and recruiting, as well as an increase in professional service fees associated with technology investment spending. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $956.4 million in 2006 was up $141.4 million, or 17.3%, from $815.0 million in 2005 mostly driven by the growth in revenue. 30 Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $397.3 million, an increase of $50.6 million, or 14.6%, from $346.7 million in 2005. U.S. revenue of $204.7 million increased $33.1 million, or 19.3%, and international revenue increased $17.6 million, or 10.1%, with 63.1% reflecting growth in Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $347.5 million was up $42.5 million, or 13.9%, over $305.0 million in 2005, benefiting from higher sales of core research and data services coupled with new customer growth and lower attrition. Software revenue of $36.3 million increased $2.7 million, or 8.0%, from $33.6 million in 2005 reflecting greater demand for risk products and credit decision making software and related maintenance services. Revenue from consulting services was $13.5 million, an increase of $5.4 million, or 66.7%, from $8.1 million in 2005 reflecting an increase in the risk management needs of customers and the completion of contractual milestones. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $232.6 million in 2006, an increase of $30.2 million, or 14.9%, from $202.4 million in 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits relating to sales commissions from higher revenue coupled with additional staffing over 2005. The increase also reflects additional training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses to support business growth, as well as a $2.2 million charge in 2006 relating to a non income tax related matter. Market Risk Moodys maintains operations in 27 countries outside the United States. Approximately 33% of the Companys revenue was billed in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. Approximately 42% of the Companys expenses were incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. As such, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 35% of Moodys assets were located outside the U.S. Of Moodys aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $426.3 million at December 31, 2007, approximately $348 million was located outside the United States (with $104 million and $88 million in Luxembourg and the U.K., respectively), making the Company susceptible to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Additionally, all of Moodys aggregate short term investments of $14.7 million were located outside the United States. The effects of changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar on assets and liabilities of non U.S. operations with non U.S. functional currencies are charged or credited to the cumulative translation adjustment account in shareholders equity. Moodys cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality investment grade securities within and outside the United States. The Company manages its credit risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market mutual funds and issuers of high grade commercial paper. Short term investments primarily consist of high quality investment grade corporate bonds in Korea. The Company manages its credit risk exposure on cash equivalents and short term investments by limiting the amount it can invest with any single issuer. A portion of the Companys future billings and related revenue is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily related to the euros and British pound. Under the Companys current foreign exchange hedging program, the Company hedges a portion of foreign exchange currency risk for the purpose of reducing volatility in the Companys cash flows related to future euro and British pound billings and related revenue. Foreign exchange options are currently utilized to hedge these exposures and have maturities between one and fifteen months. As of December 2007 all contracts were set to expire at various times through March 2009 and were deemed to be highly effective under SFAS No. 133 and related accounting pronouncements. No credit losses are anticipated as the counterparties to these agreements are major financial institutions. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Companys outstanding options was recorded as an asset of $2.3 million consisting of the following notional amounts: Currency Pair of Option* Notional amount * GBP/USD &pound; 7.9 million EUR/USD 16.7 million EUR/GBP 61.5 million * GBP(&pound;) Great Britain pounds; EUR() euros; USD($) U.S. dollars 31 Unrealized gains or losses will be recorded in other comprehensive income and, once realized, the gains or losses will be recognized as an adjustment to revenue when the billings are recognized in revenue. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the exposure to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates on Moodys foreign exchange options. A hypothetical 10% favorable change in the overall option currency portfolio would result in a gain of approximately $10 million as of December 31, 2007. The maximum loss related to an adverse change in the option currency portfolio would be $2.3 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow The Company is currently financing its operations, capital expenditures and share repurchases through cash flow from operations and from financing activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $984.0 million, $752.5 million and $707.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The Company borrowed $847.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 increased by $231.5 million compared with 2006. A decrease in net income of $52.4 million reduced cash provided by operating activities. The increase in stock based compensation expense positively impacted cash flow from operations by $13.1 million compared to net income. Accounts receivable decreased approximately 7% in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with an increase of approximately 13% for the year ended December 31, 2006 increasing cash flow from operations by $79.1 million compared to 2006. The impact on cash flows of excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans decreased to $52.2 million from $103.2 million in 2006 due to fewer stock option exercises in 2007 compared with 2006. The favorable non cash resolution of a legacy tax matter in the second quarter of 2007 negatively impacted operating cash flow by $52.3 million compared to net income. Operating cash flow in 2006 included a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys former headquarters building. The $67.2 million reduction in cash flows from changes in other current assets is primarily due to the receipt of approximately $16 million from New D&B related to issuer based stock compensation tax deductions in 2006 and an approximate $40 million overpayment of 2007 state income taxes offset by an $8.5 million increase related to a receivable from the IRS for a legacy tax matter classified as a current asset in 2007. Furthermore, the $55.5 million change in cash flows associated with other assets is primarily due to a deposit made in the first quarter of 2006 of approximately $40 million with the IRS relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating cash flow decreased by $87.5 million due to reductions in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. This is primarily due to a decrease in net accrued income taxes of approximately $76.5 million, decreases in accrued incentive compensation of approximately $27 million and decreases in accounts payable of approximately $17 million, due to timing of payments offset by approximately $33 million in restructuring liabilities. Increases in FIN No. 48 and other non current tax and related liabilities increased cash flow from operations by approximately $83 million. Additionally, increases in the deferred rent liability contributed approximately $47 million to cash flow from operations relating primarily to the free rent period and tenant allowance on the 7WTC lease. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 increased by $44.6 million compared with 2005. Growth in net income contributed $193.1 million to cash provided by operating activities. The 2006 cash flows include a decrease relating to excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans of $103.2 million that are now classified as a cash flow from financing activities as required under SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation was presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an operating cash flow, along with other tax cash flows. The operating cash flow includes a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys headquarters building. The cash proceeds are reported as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. The change in accounts receivable is attributable to increases in revenue offset by improved collection. Additionally, Moodys deposited approximately $40 million with the IRS in the first quarter of 2006 relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. This deposit was recorded in other assets. Tax payments increased by $53 million in 2006 versus 2005 offset by increases in income taxes payable due to growth in pre tax net income. An increase in deferred revenue increased cash flow from operations by $28 million which is due to increased volume in annual and initial fees in both the ratings and research businesses. Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities was ($124.7) million, $116.1 million and ($150.4) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net maturities (investments) in short term investments, net of purchases, totaled $61.5 million, $22.5 million and ($88.9) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Capital expenditures, primarily for leasehold improvements and internal use software, totaled $181.8 million, $31.1 million and $31.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 increase relates primarily to the build out of the Companys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. The 2006 spending on acquisitions 32 was $39.2 million, which related primarily to the purchase of a 49% share in China Cheng Xin International Credit Rating Co. Ltd and the acquisition of Wall Street Analytics, Inc., net of cash acquired. The 2005 spending on acquisitions primarily related to the acquisition of Economy.com, net of cash acquired, and a contingent payment made in the second quarter of 2005 related to Korea Investors Service. The net proceeds received from the sale of the Companys former Corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006 were $163.9 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $861.5 million, $965.2 million and $666.5 million for years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company borrowed $547.4 million under its commercial paper program in 2007 to support share repurchases, build out of the new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. Additionally, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction $300.0 million aggregate principal Series 2007 1 Notes in the third quarter of 2007. Spending for share repurchases totaled $1,738.4 million, $1,093.6 million and $691.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Dividends paid were $85.2 million, $79.5 million and $60.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in dividends reflects a quarterly dividend paid of $0.08 per share 2007 versus a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in 2006 and $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in the subsequent quarters per share in 2005. These amounts were offset in part by proceeds from employee stock based compensation plans of $65.9 million, $105.3 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans were $52.2 million and $103.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decreases in proceeds from stock plans and the excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation plans is due primarily to a decrease in stock option exercise activity in 2007 compared to the same period in 2006. Future Cash Requirements The Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months and expects to have positive operating cash flow for fiscal year 2008. Cash requirements for periods beyond the next twelve months will depend, among other things, on the Companys profitability and its ability to manage working capital requirements. The Company currently expects to use a significant portion of its cash flow to continue its share repurchase program. The Company implemented a systematic share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2005 through an SEC Rule 10b5 1 program. Moodys may also purchase opportunistically when conditions warrant. The Companys intent is to return capital to shareholders in a way that serves their long term interests. As a result, Moodys share repurchase activity will continue to vary from quarter to quarter. The Company may borrow from various sources to fund share repurchases. On June 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program of which Moodys has approximately $24 million remaining at December 31, 2007. On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase program that the Company will begin utilizing upon completion of the 2006 authority. There is no established expiration date for either of these authorizations. At December 31,2007 the Company had $551.9 million, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million, of outstanding commercial paper and issued $300.0 million of 6.06% Series 2007 1 Notes, as described in the Indebtedness section below, to support share repurchases, the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. The Company entered into an operating lease agreement (the Lease) commencing on October 20, 2006 with 7 World Trade Center, LLC for 589,945 square feet of an office building located at 7WTC at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, which is serving as Moodys new headquarters. The Lease has an initial term of approximately 21 years with a total of 20 years of renewal options. The total base rent of the lease over its initial 21 year term is approximately $536 million including rent credits from the World Trade Center Rent Reduction Program promulgated by the Empire State Development Corporation. On March 28, 2007, the lease agreement was amended for the Company to lease an additional 78,568 square feet at 7WTC. The additional base rent is approximately $106 million over a 20 year term. The Company plans to incur approximately $21 million of costs to complete the build out its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC over the next year. On October 24, 2007, the Company announced a restructuring plan that would reduce global headcount, terminate certain technology contracts and consolidate certain corporate functions in response to the Companys reorganization announced on August 7, 2007 and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors. Included in the $50.0 million restructuring charge is $7.0 million of non cash settlements relating to pension curtailments and stock based compensation award modifications for certain terminated employees. During 2007, the Company made cash payments of $1.8 million relating to the $43.0 million cash component of the restructuring liability and expects cash outlays of approximately $31 million and $2 million during 2008 and 2009, respectively. The remaining liability of $8.1 million relates to annuity payments that will be made in connection with the Companys 33 pension and other post retirement benefit plans for certain terminated employees, which will commence when the employees reach retirement age beginning in 2009 and continue until all payments have been made. The Company also intends to use a portion of its cash flow to pay dividends. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at this rate, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company will from time to time consider cash outlays for acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses, products, services and technologies. The Company may also be required to make future cash outlays to pay to New D&B its share of potential liabilities related to the legacy tax and legal contingencies that are discussed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Contingencies. These potential cash outlays could be material and might affect liquidity requirements, and they could cause the Company to pursue additional financing. There can be no assurance that financing to meet cash requirements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. Indebtedness The following table summarizes total indebtedness as of December 31: 2007 2006 Notes payable: Senior notes, due 2015, 4.98% $ 300.0 $ 300.0 Senior notes, due 2017, 6.06% 300.0 Commercial paper, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million 551.9 Total 1,151.9 300.0 Less: current portion (551.9 ) Total long term debt $ 600.0 $ 300.0 Notes Payable On September 7, 2007, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.06% Series 2007 1 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017 (Series 2007 1 Notes) pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement (2007 Agreement). The Series 2007 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 6.06%, payable semi annually on March 7 and September 7 of each year. Under the terms of the 2007 Agreement, the Company may, from time to time within five years, in its sole discretion, issue additional series of senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million pursuant to one or more supplements to the 2007 Agreement. The Company may prepay the Series 2007 1 Notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a prepayment premium based on the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled payments, over the prepaid principal (Make Whole Amount). The 2007 Agreement contains covenants that limit the ability of the Company, and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: enter into transactions with affiliates, dispose of assets, incur or create liens, enter into any sale leaseback transactions, or merge with any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets. The Company must also not permit its total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio to exceed 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement (2005 Agreement) and issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Series 2005 1 Senior Unsecured Notes (Series 2005 1 Notes). The Series 2005 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.98%, payable semi annually on March 30 and September 30. The proceeds from the sale of the Series 2005 1 Notes were used to refinance $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding 7.61% Senior Notes which matured on September 30, 2005. In the event that Moodys pays all, or part, of the Series 2005 1 Notes in advance of their maturity (the Prepaid Principal), such prepayment will be subject to a penalty based on the Make Whole Amount. The Series 2005 1 Notes are subject to certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreements. 34 Commercial Paper On October 3, 2007, the Company entered into a commercial paper program (the Program) on a private placement basis under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes (the CP Notes) up to a maximum amount outstanding at any time of $1.0 billion. Amounts available under the Program may be re borrowed. The Program is supported by the Companys 2007 Facility (see Credit Facilities section below), if at any time funds are not available on favorable terms under the Program. The maturities of the CP Notes will vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The CP Notes will be sold at a discount from par or, alternatively, will be sold at par and bear interest at rates that will vary based upon market conditions at the time of the issuance. The rates of interest will depend on whether the CP Notes will be a fixed or floating rate. The interest on a floating rate may be based on the following: (a) certificate of deposit rate; (b) commercial paper rate; (c) the federal funds rate; (d) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR); (e) prime rate; (f) treasury rate; or (g) such other base rate as may be specified in a supplement. The Program contains certain events of default including, among other things: non payment of principal, interest or fees; violation of covenants; invalidity of any loan document; material judgments; and bankruptcy and insolvency events, subject in certain instances to cure periods. Credit Facilities On September 28, 2007, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion five year senior, unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2007 Facility), expiring in September 2012, which replaces both the $500.0 million Interim Facility, which was set to expire in February 2008 as well as the $500.0 million five year revolving credit facility entered into on September 1, 2004 and scheduled to expire in September 2009. The 2007 Facility will serve, in part, to support the commercial paper program discussed above. Interest on borrowings is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 16.0 to 40.0 basis points of the facility amount depending on the Companys ratio of total indebtedness to EBITDA (Earnings Coverage Ratio). The Company also pays quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the 2007 Facility. The quarterly fees for the 2007 Facility can range from 4.0 to 10.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also pays a utilization fee of 5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeds 50% of the total facility. The 2007 Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreement. The 2007 Facility also contains financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain an Earnings Coverage Ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the 2007 Facility. On August 8, 2007, the Company entered into an interim loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million that was to expire on February 8, 2008 (the Interim Facility). Interest on borrowings was payable at rates that were based on LIBOR plus a premium that could range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points of the Interim Facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the Interim Facility. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the Interim Facility and repaid the $100.0 million outstanding balance. On September 1, 2004, Moodys entered into a five year senior, unsecured bank revolving credit facility (the 2004 Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $160.0 million that was scheduled to expire in September 2009. Interest on the borrowings under the 2004 Facility was payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio, as defined in the related agreement. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeded 50% of the total facility. In October 2006, Moodys amended the 2004 Facility by increasing the limit on sale proceeds resulting from a sale leaseback transaction of its former corporate headquarters building from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. Additionally, the restriction on liens to secure indebtedness related to the building sale was also increased from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. The Company also increased the expansion feature of the 2004 Facility from $80.0 million to $340.0 million, subject to obtaining commitments for the incremental capacity at the time of draw down from the existing lenders. In April 2007, after receipt of all necessary approvals relating to the execution of the expansion feature, borrowing capacity under the 2004 Facility was increased to $500.0 million. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of the 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the 2004 Facility and repaid the $400.0 million outstanding balance. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all covenants contained within the note agreements and the 2007 Facility described above. 35 Interest (expense) income, net Interest (expense) income, net consists of: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Income $ 19.3 $ 18.2 $ 26.0 Expense on borrowings (40.7 ) (15.2 ) (21.0 ) Expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities (21.5 ) Reversal of interest (a) 17.5 Capitalized 1.1 Interest (expense) income, net $ (24.3 ) $ 3.0 $ 5.0 (a) Represents a reversal of accrued interest related to the favorable resolution of a legacy tax matter, as further discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Interest paid on all borrowings was $32.5 million, $14.9 million and $22.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Management may consider pursuing additional long term financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for operations, share repurchase and other strategic opportunities, which would result in higher financing costs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Moodys did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities where Moodys is the primary beneficiary, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, Moodys is not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if it had engaged in such relationships. Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due under the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less Than 1Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Over 5Years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 1,071.1 $ 72.6 $ 113.7 $ 105.3 $ 779.5 Notes payable (2) 910.6 33.2 66.2 66.2 745.0 Purchase obligations (3) 39.0 30.1 7.9 1.0 Borrowings under commercial paper program (4) 552.6 552.6 Capital lease obligations 4.5 1.7 2.8 Other (5) 59.9 2.6 12.1 9.2 36.0 Total (6) $ 2,637.7 $ 692.8 $ 202.7 $ 181.7 $ 1,560.5 (1) Includes rent payments relating to the 165,000 square foot, 17.5 year operating lease agreement entered into on February 6, 2008 to occupy six floors of an office tower in the Canary Wharf section of London, England. The Company will begin making rent payments in March 2011. (2) Includes $9.3 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2007 and $301.3 million of interest that will accrue and be due from January 1, 2008 through September 30, 2015 and 2017, when the Series 2005 1 Notes and the Series 2007 1 Notes mature, respectively. (3) Purchase obligations include approximately $21 million, excluding approximately $0.8 million of accrued liabilities, related to the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. Purchase obligations also include contracts for professional services, data processing and telecommunication services, and data back up facilities. (4) Includes $1.3 million of interest related to CP Notes outstanding under its commercial paper program at December 31, 2007 that will be due and paid at various times through December 31, 2008. As of February 27, 2008, the Company had approximately $746 million of CP Notes outstanding under the Program. See Indebtedness for further information. 36 (5) Includes $59.9 million of projected benefit payments relating to the Companys unfunded Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefit Plans described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. (6) The table above does not include the Companys net long term tax liabilities of $118.3 million, since the expected cash outflow of such amounts by period cannot be reasonably estimated. 2008 Outlook Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including Moodys KMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys new initiatives in fixed income pricing and valuations will also be captured within Moodys Analytics. Moodys outlook for 2008 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors, including interest rates, corporate profitability and business investment spending, merger and acquisition activity, consumer spending, residential mortgage borrowing and refinancing activity, securitization levels and capital markets issuance. There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and, if actual conditions differ from these assumptions, Moodys results for the year may differ from our current outlook. For Moodys overall, full year 2008 revenue is expected to decline in the low double digit percent range. This decline assumes foreign currency translation in 2008 at current exchange rates. The Company anticipates a weak first half of 2008 with improvement in market liquidity and issuance conditions later in the year. Under this scenario, Moodys first half 2008 performance is likely to reflect unusually weak market conditions, as well as challenging year on year comparisons against the first half of 2007 when the Company delivered record performance. The Company expects the full year 2008 operating margin to decline to the mid to high forties percent range, due primarily to lower ratings revenue. Full year expenses are expected to decrease approximately 5%, primarily due to the 2007 restructuring charge of $50.0 million, as well as expense savings from the restructuring actions, partially offset by investments in the growth areas of our business. Earnings per share for 2008 are projected in a range from $2.17 to $2.25, which reflects the estimated impact of share buy backs under the Companys share repurchase program. For the global Moodys Investors Service business, the Company expects revenue for the full year 2008 to decline in the mid to high teens percent range. Within the U.S., the Company projects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the mid twenties percent range for the full year 2008. In the U.S. structured finance business, Moodys expects revenue for the year to decline in the low to mid forties percent range, reflecting double digit percent declines in most asset classes, led by residential mortgage backed securities and credit derivatives ratings. In the U.S. corporate finance business, the Company expects revenue to decrease in the low teens percent range for the year driven by declines across all asset classes. In both the U.S. financial institutions and public, project and infrastructure finance sectors, Moodys projects revenue in 2008 to grow in the low single digit percent range. Outside the U.S. the Company expects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the low single digit percent range. Good growth from rating financial institutions; public, project and infrastructure finance; and corporate securities is expected to be more than offset by a decline in structured finance ratings revenue, primarily in Europe. For Moodys Analytics, the Company expects revenue growth in the mid teens percent range. In the U.S., growth is projected to be in the low teens percent range while outside the U.S., revenue is expected to increase in the high teens percent range. Growth in the subscription businesses is expected in the mid teens range, reflecting continued demand for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics, and the impact of our newly formed pricing and valuation business. In the consulting business, Moodys anticipates very strong growth, reflecting a robust pipeline of professional services engagements and credit training projects. There is considerable demand for Moodys expertise in credit education, risk modeling, and scorecard development as customers implement more sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. In the software business, the Company expects revenue to be flat versus 2007, as customers begin to migrate to new generation software platforms. 37 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value, and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is expected to increase the consistency of fair value measurements and applies only to those measurements that are already required or permitted to be measured at fair value by other accounting standards. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 2 (FSP FAS 157 2), which partially defers the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company has implemented the deferral provisions of FSP FAS 157 2 and as a result has partially implemented the provisions of SFAS No. 157 as of January 1, 2008. The partial implementation of SFAS 157 does not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations and the Company will apply, as of January 1, 2009, the provisions of SFAS No, 157 to its non financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination and not subsequently remeasured at fair value, non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value for a goodwill impairment assessment, nonfinancial long lived assets measured at fair value for an asset impairment assessment, and asset retirement obligations initially measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards which require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each reporting period. Items eligible for fair value election include recognized financial assets and liabilities such as equity method investments and investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values, written loan commitments, and certain warranties and insurance contracts where a warrantor or insurer is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, the election must be applied to individual instruments with certain restrictions, is irrevocable and must be applied to an entire instrument. Any upfront costs and fees related to the item elected for fair value must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred. At the implementation date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the implementation of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2008. The Company is currently determining the impact, if any, that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No.141R). SFAS No. 141R extends its applicability to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses and establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non controlling interest in the acquiree, and the goodwill acquired. SFAS 141R also expands disclosure requirements to improve the statement users abilities to evaluate the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of implementing SFAS No. 141R will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No.160). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parents ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS No. 160 also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners and requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be reported as equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of implementing SFAS No. 160 will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Contingencies From time to time, Moodys is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation that are incidental to the Companys business, including claims based on ratings assigned by Moodys. Moodys is also subject to ongoing tax audits in the normal course of business. Management periodically assesses the Companys liabilities and contingencies based upon the latest information available. 38 Moodys discloses material pending legal proceedings, other than routine litigation incidental to Moodys business, material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities and other pending matters that it may determine to be appropriate. For matters, except those related to income taxes, where it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company has recorded liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and periodically adjusts these as appropriate. When sufficient uncertainties exist, related to the outcome and or the amount or range of loss, management does not record a liability but discloses the contingency if significant. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities accordingly. For income tax matters, the Company employs the prescribed methodology of FIN No. 48, implemented as of January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained, based on its technical merits, as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities and is cooperating with those inquiries. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described below, in the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, although it is possible that the effect could be material to the Companys consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Legacy Contingencies Moodys continues to have exposure to certain potential liabilities assumed in connection with the 2000 Distribution (Legacy Contingencies). The following description of the relationships among Moodys, New D&B and their predecessor entities is important in understanding the Legacy Contingencies that relate to tax matters (Legacy Tax Matters). In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, ACNielsen Corporation and Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant). In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into two separate public companies: Old D&B and R.H. Donnelley Corporation. During 1998, Cognizant separated into two separate public companies: IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (NMR). In September 2000, Old D&B separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moodys, as further described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in the normal course of business, including through tax free restructurings of both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to normal review by tax authorities. Old D&B and its predecessors also entered into a series of agreements covering the sharing of any liabilities for payment of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on certain tax matters, and certain other potential tax liabilities, all as described in such agreements. Further, in connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moodys have agreed on the financial responsibility for any potential liabilities related to Legacy Tax Matters. Settlement agreements were executed with the IRS in 2005 regarding Legacy Tax Matters for the years 1989 1990 and 1993 1996. As of December 31, 2007, the Company continues to carry a liability of $1.8 million with respect to these matters. With respect to these settlement agreements, Moodys and New D&B believe that IMS Health and NMR did not pay their full share of the liability to the IRS pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements among the parties. Moodys and New D&B paid these amounts to the IRS on their behalf, and have been unable to resolve this dispute with IMS Health and NMR. As a result, Moodys and New D&B have commenced arbitration proceedings against IMS Health and NMR to collect a total of approximately $11 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1989 1990 matter. Moodys and New D&B may also commence an arbitration proceeding to collect a total of $14.5 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1993 1996 matter. Moodys cannot predict the outcome of these matters with any certainty. Amortization Expense Deductions and 1997 2002 IRS Deficiency Notices (the Notices) This legacy tax matter, which was affected by developments in June 2007 as further described below, involves a partnership transaction which resulted in amortization expense deductions on the tax returns of Old D&B since 1997. IRS audits of Old D&Bs and New D&Bs tax returns for the years 1997 through 2002 concluded in June 2007 without any disallowance of the amortization expense deductions, or any other adjustments to income related to this partnership 39 transaction. These audits did result in the IRS issuing the Notices for other tax issues for the 1997 2000 years aggregating $9.5 million in tax and penalties, plus statutory interest of approximately $7 million, which will be apportioned among Moodys, New D&B, IMS Health and NMR pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements. Moodys share of this assessment is anticipated to be $7.2 million including interest, net of tax. In November 2007, the IRS assessed the tax and penalties and used a portion of the deposit discussed below to satisfy the assessment, together with interest. The Company believes it has meritorious grounds to challenge the IRSs actions and is evaluating its alternatives for further actions to recover these amounts The absence of any tax deficiencies in the Notices for the amortization expense deductions for the years 1997 through 2000 and in companion Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002, combined with the expiration of the statute of limitations for 1997 through 2002, for issues not assessed, resulted in Moodys recording an earnings benefit of $52.3 million in its second quarter. This is comprised of two components, as follows: (i) a reversal of a tax liability of $27.3 million related to the period from 1997 through the Distribution Date, reducing the provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007; and (ii) a reduction of accrued interest expense of $17.5 million ($10.6 million, net of tax) and an increase in other non operating income of $14.4 million, relating to amounts due to New D&B, for the year ended December 31, 2007. On the Distribution Date in 2000, New D&B paid Moodys $55.0 million for 50% of certain anticipated future tax benefits of New D&B through 2012. It is possible that IRS audits of New D&B for tax years after 2002 could result in income adjustments with respect to the amortization expense deductions of this partnership transaction. In the event these tax benefits are not claimed or otherwise not realized by New D&B, or there is an audit adjustment, Moodys would be required, pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, to repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted value of its share of the related future tax benefits and its share of any tax liability that New D&B incurs . As of December 31, 2007, Moodys liability with respect to this matter totaled $52.8 million. In March 2006, New D&B and Moodys each deposited $39.8 million with the IRS in order to stop the accrual of statutory interest on potential tax deficiencies with respect to the 1997 through 2002 tax years. In July 2007, New D&B and Moodys commenced procedures to recover approximately $56 million of these deposits ($24.4 million for New D&B and $31.6 million for Moodys), which represents the excess of the original deposits over the total of the deficiencies asserted in the Notices and in companion Statutory Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002. As noted above, in November 2007 the IRS used $7.9 million of Moodys portion of the deposit to satisfy an assessment and related interest. Additionally, in January 2008 the IRS paid Moodys $8.5 million in connection with this matter. At December 31, 2007, Moodys has recorded liabilities for Legacy Tax Matters totaling $56.7 million. This includes liabilities and accrued interest due to New D&B arising from the 2000 Distribution Agreement. It is possible that the ultimate liability for Legacy Tax Matters could be greater than the liabilities recorded by the Company, which could result in additional charges that may be material to Moodys future reported results, financial position and cash flows. Dividends During 2007, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.32 during the year. During 2006, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.28 during the year. During 2005, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in each of the three subsequent quarters, per share of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.2025 during the year. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at the rate noted above, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 40 Common Stock Information The Companys common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol MCO. The table below indicates the high and low sales price of the Companys common stock and the dividends declared for the periods shown. The number of registered shareholders of record at January 31, 2008 was 3,522. Price Per Share DividendsDeclaredPer Share High Low 2006: First quarter $ 71.95 $ 61.09 $ 0.07 Second quarter 73.29 49.77 0.07 Third quarter 65.84 49.76 0.07 Fourth quarter 71.70 60.60 0.08 Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 0.29 2007: First quarter $ 76.09 $ 58.65 $ 0.08 Second quarter 73.69 60.60 0.08 Third quarter 63.70 42.42 0.08 Fourth quarter 55.99 35.05 0.10 Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 0.34 Forward Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and prospects for the Companys business and operations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. Those statements appear at various places throughout this annual report on Form 10 K, including in the sections entitled Outlook and Contingencies under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, commencing on page 17 of this annual report on Form 10 K, under Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10 K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, will, predict, potential, continue, strategy, aspire, target, forecast, project, estimate, should, could, may and similar expressions or words and variations thereof relating to the Companys views on future events, trends and contingencies. Stockholders and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. The forward looking statements and other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10 K, and the Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly supplement, update or revise such statements on a going forward basis, whether as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying examples of factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated by these forward looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, matters that could affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and or global capital markets, including credit quality concerns, changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets; concerns in the marketplace affecting our credibility or otherwise affecting market perceptions of the integrity or utility of independent agency ratings; increased pricing pressure from competitors and or customers; the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; the impact of regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and the potential for new U.S., state and local legislation and regulations; the potential for increased competition and regulation in foreign jurisdictions; exposure to litigation related to our rating opinions, as well as any other litigation to which the Company may be subject from time to time; the possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures; failures or malfunctions of our operations and infrastructure; the outcome of any review by controlling tax authorities of the Companys global tax planning initiatives; the outcome of those legacy tax and legal contingencies that relate to the Company, its predecessors and their affiliated companies for which Moodys has assumed portions of the financial responsibility; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by financial institutions. These factors, risks and uncertainties as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause Moodys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements are described in greater detail under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10 K, elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other filings made by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated herein or therein. Stockholders and investors 41 are cautioned that the occurrence of any of these factors, risks and uncertainties may cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. New factors may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict new factors, nor can the Company assess the potential effect of any new factors on it. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption Market Risk in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K. 42 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10 K. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains Forward Looking Statements. See Forward Looking Statements commencing on page 41 and Item 1A. Risk Factors commencing on page 10 for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and other factors associated with these statements. The Company Except where otherwise indicated, the terms Moodys and the Company refer to Moodys Corporation and its subsidiaries. Moodys is a provider of (i) credit ratings and related research, data and analytical tools, (ii) quantitative credit risk measures, risk scoring software, and credit portfolio management solutions and (iii) beginning in January 2008, fixed income pricing data and valuation models. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and Moodys KMV (MKMV). Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys Investors Service publishes rating opinions on a broad range of credit obligors and credit obligations issued in domestic and international markets, including various corporate and governmental obligations, structured finance securities and commercial paper programs. It also publishes investor oriented credit information, research and economic commentary, including in depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, special comments and credit opinion handbooks. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Prior to September 30, 2000, the Company operated as part of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Old D&B). On September 8, 2000, the Board of Directors of Old D&B approved a plan to separate into two publicly traded companies the Company and The New D&B Corporation (New D&B). On September 30, 2000 (the Distribution Date), Old D&B distributed to its shareholders all of the outstanding shares of New D&B common stock (the 2000 Distribution). New D&B comprised the business of Old D&Bs Dun & Bradstreet operating company (the D&B Business). The remaining business of Old D&B consisted solely of the business of providing ratings and related research and credit risk management services (the Moodys Business) and was renamed Moodys Corporation. New D&B is the accounting successor to Old D&B, which was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on April 8, 1998. Old D&B began operating as an independent publicly owned corporation on July 1, 1998 as a result of its June 30, 1998 spin off (the 1998 Distribution) from the corporation now known as R.H. Donnelley Corporation and previously known as The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (Donnelley). Old D&B became the accounting successor to Donnelley at the time of the 1998 Distribution. Prior to the 1998 Distribution, Donnelley was the parent holding company for subsidiaries then engaged in the businesses currently conducted by New D&B, Moodys and Donnelley. Prior to November 1, 1996, it also was the parent holding company of subsidiaries conducting business under the names Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant) and ACNielsen Corporation (ACNielsen). On that date Donnelley effected a spin off of the capital stock of Cognizant and ACNielsen to its stockholders (the 1996 Distribution). Cognizant subsequently changed its name to Nielsen Media Research, Inc. in connection with its 1998 spin off of the capital stock of IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health). For purposes of governing certain ongoing relationships between the Company and New D&B after the 2000 Distribution and to provide for an orderly transition, the Company and New D&B entered into various agreements including a distribution agreement, tax allocation agreement, employee benefits agreement, shared transaction services agreement, insurance and risk management services agreement, data services agreement and transition services agreement. Detailed descriptions of the 1996, 1998 and 2000 Distributions are contained in the Companys 2000 annual report on Form 10 K, filed on March 15, 2001. 17 Critical Accounting Estimates Moodys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based on the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires Moodys to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These estimates are based on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, Moodys evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable allowances, contingencies, goodwill and intangible assets, pension and other post retirement benefits and stock based compensation. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting estimates are considered critical because they are particularly dependent on managements judgment about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made and changes to those estimates could have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Revenue Recognition In recognizing revenue related to ratings, Moodys uses judgments to allocate billed revenue between ratings and the future monitoring of ratings in cases where the Company does not charge ongoing monitoring fees for a particular issuer. These judgments are not dependent on the outcome of future uncertainties, but rather relate to allocating revenue across accounting periods. In such cases, the Company defers portions of rating fees that it estimates will be attributed to future monitoring activities and recognizes the deferred revenue ratably over the estimated monitoring periods. The portion of the revenue to be deferred is based upon a number of factors, including the estimated fair market value of the monitoring services charged for similar securities or issuers. The monitoring period over which the deferred revenue will be recognized is determined based on factors such as the estimated lives of the rated securities. Currently, the estimated monitoring periods range from one to ten years. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue included approximately $54 million, $47 million and $36 million, respectively, related to such monitoring fees. Additionally, in the case of commercial mortgage backed securities, derivatives, international residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities, issuers can elect to pay the monitoring fees upfront. These fees are deferred and recognized over the future monitoring periods, ranging from nine to 46 years, which are based on the expected lives of the rated securities. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, deferred revenue related to these securities was approximately $86 million, $72 million and $57 million, respectively. Moodys estimates revenue for ratings of commercial paper for which, in addition to a fixed annual monitoring fee, issuers are billed quarterly based on amounts outstanding. Revenue is accrued each quarter based on estimated amounts outstanding and is billed when actual data is available. The estimate is determined based on the issuers most recent reported quarterly data. At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, accounts receivable included approximately $38 million, $34 million and $31 million, respectively, related to accrued commercial paper revenue. Historically, the Company has not had material differences between the estimated revenue and the actual billings. Accounts Receivable Allowance Moodys records, as reductions of revenue, provisions for estimated future adjustments to customer billings based on historical experience and current conditions. Such provisions are reflected as additions to the accounts receivable allowance. Adjustments to and write offs of accounts receivable are charged against the allowance. Moodys evaluates its accounts receivable by reviewing and assessing historical collection and adjustment experience and the current status of customer accounts. Moodys also considers the economic environment of the customers, both from an industry and geographic perspective, in evaluating the need for allowances. Based on its reviews, Moodys establishes or adjusts allowances as considered appropriate in the circumstance. This process involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and could involve significant dollar amounts. Accordingly, Moodys results of operations can be affected by adjustments to the allowance. Management believes that the allowance for uncollectible accounts is adequate to cover anticipated adjustments and write offs under current conditions. However, significant changes in any of the above factors, or actual write offs or adjustments that differ from the estimated amounts could result in revenue adjustments that are greater or less than Moodys estimates. In each of 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company adjusted its provision rates and its allowances to reflect its current estimate of the appropriate level of accounts receivable allowance. Contingencies Accounting for contingencies, including those matters described in the Contingencies section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations, commencing on page 38 is highly subjective 18 and requires the use of judgments and estimates in assessing their magnitude and likely outcome. In many cases, the outcomes of such matters will be determined by third parties, including governmental or judicial bodies. The provisions made in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the related disclosures, represent managements best estimates of the then current status of such matters and their potential outcome based on a review of the facts and in consultation with outside legal counsel where deemed appropriate. The Company regularly reviews contingencies and as additional information becomes available may, in the future, adjust its associated liabilities. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on Moodys future reported results and financial position. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the provision for income taxes reflected credits of $27.3 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, due to changes in the Companys liabilities for legacy income tax exposures that were assumed by Moodys in connection with its separation from Old D&B in October 2000. These tax matters are more fully described under the caption Legacy Contingencies within Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Moodys evaluates its goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill requires that the Company make important assumptions and judgments about future operating results and cash flows as well as terminal values and discount rates. In estimating future operating results and cash flows, Moodys considers internal budgets and strategic plans, expected long term growth rates, and the effects of external factors and market conditions. If actual future operating results and cash flows or external conditions differ from the Companys judgments, or if changes in assumed terminal values or discount rates are made, an impairment charge may be necessary to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, which charge could be material to the Companys financial position and results of operations. Amortizable intangible assets are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Restructuring Charge The Company has engaged, and may continue to engage, in restructuring actions, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee benefit costs, contract termination costs and asset impairments. If the actual amounts differ from these estimates, the amount of the restructuring charge could be impacted. For a full description of Moodys restructuring actions, refer to the Results of Operations section below and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefits The expenses, assets, liabilities and obligations that Moodys reports for pension and other post retirement benefits are dependent on many assumptions concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These assumptions include the following: future compensation increases, based on the Companys long term actual experience and future outlook long term return on pension plan assets, based on historical portfolio results and the expected future average annual return for each major asset class within the plans portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed income investments) future healthcare cost trends, based on historical market data, near term outlooks and assessments of likely long term trends discount rates, based on current yields on high grade corporate long term bonds The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Companys benefit obligations as of December 31, 2007 was derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares the plans projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank pension discount curve. The cash flows are then discounted back to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. Moodys major assumptions vary by plan and assumptions used are set forth in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. In determining these assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries and other advisors as deemed appropriate. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in its calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions could have a significant effect on the expenses, assets and liabilities related to the Companys pension and other post retirement benefits. 19 When actual plan experience differs from the assumptions used, actuarial gains or losses arise. To the extent the total outstanding gain or loss exceeds a corridor threshold as defined in SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87), the excess is subject to amortization in annual expense over the estimated average future working lifetime of active plan participants. For Moodys pension and other post retirement benefit plans, the total losses as of December 31, 2007 which have not been recognized in annual expense are $19.0 million and in 2008, Moodys expects amortization of actuarial losses to be immaterial. For Moodys funded pension plan, the differences between the expected long term rate of return assumption and actual experience could also affect the net periodic pension expense. As permitted under SFAS No. 87, the Company spreads the impact of asset experience over a five year period for purposes of calculating the market related value of assets which is used in determining the expected return on assets component of annual expense and in calculating the total unrecognized gain or loss subject to amortization. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has an unrecognized asset gain of $4.1 million, of which $1.7 million will be recognized in the market related value of assets that is used to calculate the expected return on assets component of 2009 expense. The table below shows the estimated effect that a one percentage point decrease in each of these assumptions will have on Moodys 2008 operating income (dollars in millions). These effects have been calculated using the Companys current projections of 2008 assets, liabilities, obligations and expenses related to pension and other post retirement plans, which could change as updated data becomes available. Assumption Used for2008 Estimated Impact on2008 Operating Income (Decrease)/Increase Discount Rate* 6.45% / 6.35 % $ (5.8 ) Weighted Average Assumed Compensation Growth Rate 4.00 % $ 0.7 Assumed Long Term Rate of Return on Pension Assets 8.35 % $ (1.2 ) * Discount rates of 6.45% and 6.35% are used for pension plans and other post retirement plans, respectively. A one percentage point increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates will not affect 2008 projected expenses. Based on current projections, the Company estimates that expenses related to pension and post retirement plans will be approximately $13 million in 2008 compared with $16.2 million in 2007, excluding the costs of curtailment and special termination benefits of $10.8 million in 2007. The expected expense decrease in 2008 reflects the effects of higher discount rates, lower amortization of actuarial losses and reduction in workforce due to restructuring, which are partially offset by lower plan asset gains. Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, the Company implemented, under the modified prospective application method, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R). Under this pronouncement, companies are required to record compensation expense for all share based payment award transactions granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. This includes shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. Previously, on January 1, 2003, the Company implemented, on a prospective basis, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model that uses assumptions and estimates that the Company believes are reasonable. Some of the assumptions and estimates, such as share price volatility and expected option holding period, are based in part on Moodys experience during the period since becoming a public company, which is limited. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could produce materially different estimated fair values for option awards and related expense. An increase in the following assumptions would have had the following estimated effect on operating income in 2007 (dollars in millions): Assumption Used Increase inAssumption Estimated Impact onOperating Income in 2007Increase/(Decrease) Average Expected Dividend Yield 2003 2007 grants 0.41% 0.52% 0.10 % $ 1.2 Average Expected Share Price Volatility 2003 2007 grants 23% 30% 5 % $ (4.6 ) Expected Option Holding Period 2003 2007 grants 5.0 6.0 years 1.0 year $ (3.9 ) 20 Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The Companys tax assets and liabilities are affected by the amounts charged for service provided and expenses incurred as well as other tax matters such as inter company transactions. The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Therefore, income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. Moodys is subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions which involve legacy and other tax matters. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of such audits in order to determine the appropriateness of its FIN No. 48 tax liabilities. On January 1, 2007, upon the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company implemented the accounting policy to classify interest related to income taxes as a component of interest expense in the Companys consolidated financial statements and to classify associated penalties, if any, as part of other non operating expenses. Prior to the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company had classified interest related to income taxes and associated penalties as components of income tax expense. In accordance with FIN No. 48, prior period financial statements have not been reclassified for this change. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Upon the initial implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company recorded a reduction of its January 1, 2007 retained earnings of $43.3 million, which is comprised of $32.9 million of tax and accrued interest of $17.3 million ($10.4 million, net of tax). As the determination of FIN No. 48 liabilities and associated interest and penalties requires significant estimates to be made by the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and thus, the eventual outcomes could have a material impact on the Companys net income or financial condition. Other Estimates In addition, there are other accounting estimates within Moodys consolidated financial statements, including recoverability of deferred tax assets, anticipated dividend distributions from non U.S. subsidiaries and valuation of investments in affiliates. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on Moodys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact Moodys. Operating Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. See Reorganization and New Segments section below. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and MKMV. Moodys Investors Service consisted of (i) four rating groups structured finance, corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign risk, and public finance that generate revenue principally from the assignment of credit ratings to issuers and issues of fixed income obligations in the debt markets, and (ii) research, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of investor oriented credit information research, data and other analytical tools that are produced principally by the rating groups. For presentation purposes, Europe represents Europe, the Middle East and Africa and public finance represents U.S. public finance. Given the dominance of Moodys Investors Service to Moodys overall results, the Company does not separately measure or report corporate expenses, nor are such expenses allocated between the Companys business segments. Accordingly, all corporate expenses are included in operating income of the Moodys Investors Service segment and none have been allocated to the MKMV segment. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services, including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. 21 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Company Results Moodys revenue for 2007 totaled $2,259.0 million, an increase of $221.9 million, or 10.9%, from $2,037.1 million for the same period in 2006. The main contributors to this growth were the corporate finance and research lines of business, which increased $85.3 million, or 22.4%, and $69.8 million, or 27.4%, respectively. MKMV revenue contributed 5.4% of the Companys year over year growth, driven by the software and risk subscriptions businesses. Revenue in the United States was $1,361.8 million in 2007, an increase of $84.0 million, or 6.6%, from $1,277.8 million in 2006. Corporate finance and research revenue achieved strong growth of $51.7 million and $33.8 million, respectively, partially offset by a $29.4 million decline in structured finance, resulting from the significant slow down in the credit securitization markets. International revenue was $897.2 million in 2007, an increase of $137.9 million, or 18.2%, from $759.3 million in 2006. Revenue from the structured finance, research and corporate finance lines of business contributed approximately $39 million, $36 million and $34 million, respectively, to the increase. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $39 million of international revenue growth. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the Plan) in response to the Companys reorganization and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors, as more fully described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. A restructuring charge of $50.0 million was recorded in 2007, which consisted of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs, and $4.1 million for contract termination costs. Moodys operating and selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) of $1,035.1 million in 2007 were $136.4 million, or 15.2%, more than $898.7 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately 70% of total operating and SG&A expenses, representing approximately $77 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of approximately 3,500 employees during the year ended December 31, 2007 was approximately 13% higher than during 2006. This increase reflects the impact of hiring from late 2006 and the first half of 2007 to support business growth mainly in the U.S., Asian and European ratings businesses offset by a partial completion of the workforce reductions relating to the restructuring actions implemented in the fourth quarter of 2007. The table below shows Moodys global staffing by operating segment and geographic area at December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,869 1,284 3,153 1,843 1,106 2,949 Moodys KMV 297 122 419 304 97 401 Total 2,166 1,406 3,572 2,147 1,203 3,350 Operating expenses were $584.0 million in 2007, an increase of $44.6 million, or 8.3%, from $539.4 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised approximately 77% of the growth, reflecting normal salary increases coupled with higher staffing levels compared to prior year, partially offset by lower incentive compensation. The staffing level increase reflects hiring in the first half of 2007 to support business growth, primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount increased by approximately 14% over 2006. Non compensation expenses of $96.8 million increased $10.2 million primarily from professional service costs associated with technology investments. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $451.1 million in 2007, an increase of $91.8 million, or 25.5%, from $359.3 million in 2006. Compensation expense of $238.8 million increased $46.5 million, or 24.2%, from 2006 reflecting increased staffing levels in the corporate compliance and technology support functions coupled with the increase in stock based compensation. Non compensation expense of $212.3 million was up $45.3 million, or 27.1%, over 2006 due to higher rent and occupancy costs of $39.3 million, or 88.2%, over 2006 primarily related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7 World Trade Center (7WTC) and an increase in professional service costs of $21.6 million relating to technology investment spending and legal matters. 22 Operating income in 2007 includes a $50.0 million restructuring charge consisting of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs and $4.1 million for contract termination costs, as further discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating income of $1,131.0 million decreased $128.5 million, or 10.2%, from $1,259.5 million in 2006, which reflects approximately $21 million of foreign currency translation gains. Moodys operating margin for 2007 was 50.1% compared to 61.8% in 2006. The restructuring charge in 2007 decreased the 2007 margin by approximately 220 basis points while the gain on building sale increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Interest and other non operating (expense) income, net was $(14.3) million in 2007 compared with $1.0 million in 2006. Interest expense on borrowings was $40.7 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase was due to borrowings under the Companys credit facilities, the issuance of the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes in September 2007, and issuance under the Companys commercial paper program which was established in October 2007. Interest expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities was $21.5 million in 2007. In 2006, before Fin No. 48 became effective, interest on tax liabilities was reported as part of income tax expense, net of Federal tax benefit. There was also a $17.5 million reduction of accrued interest expense and a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income both for amounts due to New D&B related to the Amortization Expense Deductions legacy tax matter more fully described in Contingencies Legacy Contingencies, below. Interest income earned on short term investments and invested cash balances was $19.3 million and $18.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Foreign exchange gains (losses) were immaterial in both 2007 and 2006. Moodys effective tax rate was 37.2% in 2007 compared to 40.2% in 2006. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates included benefits of $27.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally in 2007, there was a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income, which was not taxable, related to legacy tax matters. These matters favorably impacted the Companys 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates by approximately 295 basis points and 30 basis points, respectively. Net income was $701.5 million in 2007, a decrease of $52.4 million, or 7.0%, from $753.9 million in 2006. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2007 were $2.63 and $2.58, respectively, compared to $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, for 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge in 2007, the gain on building sale in 2006 and legacy tax adjustments in both years, net income increased $21.8 million, or 3.3%, and earnings per share increased $0.25, or 11.1%, to $2.50 per share. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $2,104.2 million, up $209.9 million, or 11.1%, from $1,894.3 million in 2006. Ratings revenue accounted for $140.1 million of the increase, with growth largely driven by global corporate finance, and financial institutions. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $32 million of ratings revenue growth. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $465.4 million in 2007, an increase of $85.3 million, or 22.4%, from $380.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $51.7 million, or 21.0%, primarily due to exceptionally strong growth in speculative grade and bank loans in the first half of 2007 offset by revenue declines in the second half of 2007 compared to the second half of 2006. In the second half of 2007, U.S. investment grade revenue increased 57.0% compared to a 7.7% increase in the first half of 2007. International revenue of $167.1 million increased $33.6 million, or 25.2%, largely driven by growth in European investment grade and speculative grade bond issuance as well as a 71.2% increase in bank loan revenue. Global financial institutions revenue was $303.1 million, up $36.3 million, or 13.6%, from $266.8 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $15.1 million, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $165.3 million grew $21.2 million, or 14.7%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $890.6 million for 2007, an increase of 1.1%, or $10.0 million, from $880.6 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S., decreased $29.4 million, or 5.0%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half, largely from the derivatives and commercial mortgage backed securities sectors, was offset by significant revenue declines in the second half of 2007 principally in residential and commercial mortgage backed securities as well as derivatives due to the 23 credit market turmoil which began early in the third quarter of 2007. Outside the U.S., revenue of $328.5 million increased $39.4 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.7 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. International growth was 40.4% in the first half of 2007 offset by a significant slowdown in the second half of 2007 due to the credit market turmoil. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $16 million. Public finance revenue was $120.8 million, an increase of $8.5 million, or 7.6%, from $112.3 million in 2006. Revenue growth was driven by a $4.4 million, or 12.4% increase in the housing, health care, higher education, and infrastructure sectors as well as a $3.0 million, or 11.3%, increase in the municipal structured products sector. Global research revenue of $324.3 million was $69.8 million, or 27.4%, higher than the $254.5 million in 2006, as a result of strong sales of core research products and analytic services to new and existing customers. U.S. revenue of $176.0 million increased $33.8 million, or 23.8%, and international revenue increased $36.0 million, or 32.1%, with 77.5% reflecting growth in Europe. Moodys Investors Service operating, and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $922.1 million, an increase of $133.0 million, or 16.9%, from $789.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised the largest portion of the 2007 expense growth, accounting for 50.8% of the increase from 2006, reflecting normal salary increases, higher staffing primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount grew approximately 16% from 2006, as well as in the corporate compliance and technology support functions. Stock based compensation expense also contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included increased rent and occupancy costs of $39.8 million related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs of approximately $25 million primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal expenses. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $17 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,105.4 million in 2007 was down $137.5 million, or 11.1%, from $1,242.9 million in 2006. Operating income included a $45.6 million restructuring charge in 2007 and a $160.6 million gain on the sale of the former corporate headquarters building in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge and gain on building sale, operating income increased $68.7 million, or 6.3%, with foreign currency translation contributing approximately $22 million of the growth. Moodys KMV Revenue at MKMV in 2007 was $154.8 million, up $12.0 million, or 8.4%, from $142.8 million in 2006. Global revenue was driven by growth in annualized risk subscriptions and software license fees of $8.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively. U.S. revenue of $66.8 million increased 6.9% from $62.5 million in 2006. Outside the U.S., revenue increased $7.7 million, or 9.6%, over prior year. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses in 2007 including the $4.4 million restructuring charge, were $117.4 million, an increase of $7.8 million, or 7.1%, from $109.6 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased $9.9 million primarily reflecting normal salary increases coupled with increased staffing as well as an approximate $2 million reduction of certain employee obligations reflected in 2006. MKMV operating income was $25.6 million for 2007, an increase of $9.0 million, or 54.2%, compared with $16.6 million in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge, MKMVs 2007 operating income increased $13.4 million, or 80.7%, from 2006. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Total Company Results Moodys revenue in 2006 was $2,037.1 million, an increase of $305.5 million, or 17.6%, from $1,731.6 million for the same period of 2005. Moodys achieved strong revenue growth above the rate of the overall corporation in global structured finance, corporate finance and research, and below the corporate rate in financial institutions and MKMV, with a decline in revenue from public finance. 24 Revenue in the United States was $1,277.8 million in 2006, an increase of $192.4 million, or 17.7%, from $1,085.4 million in 2005. Approximately 80% of the U.S. growth was driven by structured finance and corporate finance, reflecting strong issuance across most structured asset classes as well as corporate bonds and bank loans. Research, financial institutions and MKMV contributed to year over year growth as well. Moodys international revenue was $759.3 million in 2006, an increase of $113.1 million, or 17.5%, from $646.2 million in 2005. International ratings revenue grew approximately $96 million versus the prior year, with about 80% of the growth in Europe where credit derivatives, corporate finance, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors were primary drivers of growth. European research and MKMV contributed to growth as well. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Moodys operating and SG&A expenses of $898.7 million in 2006 were $141.9 million, or 18.8%, more than $756.8 million in 2005. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately $103 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of more than 3,100 employees during the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately 15% higher than during the same prior year period. This increase includes hiring to support business growth mainly in the U.S. and European ratings businesses. The table below shows Moodys staffing at year end 2006 compared with year end 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,843 1,106 2,949 1,600 919 2,519 Moodys KMV 304 97 401 303 74 377 Total 2,147 1,203 3,350 1,903 993 2,896 Operating expenses were $539.4 million in 2006, an increase of $86.5 million, or 19.1%, from $452.9 million in 2005. The largest contributor to this increase was growth in compensation and benefits expense of approximately $76 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing and higher stock based compensation expense. Moodys global staffing reflected hiring primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses to support business growth. Stock based compensation expense increased $16.3 million year over year due, in part, to the final year of phasing in of expense over the current four year equity plan vesting period and the effects of a higher share price on the value of the 2006 equity grants versus 2005, offset by additional expense recorded in the first quarter of 2005 related to the accelerated expensing of equity grants for employees at or near retirement eligibility. Expenses for 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $359.3 million in 2006, an increase of $55.4 million, or 18.2%, from $303.9 million in 2005. Year over year expense increases included growth in compensation and benefits of $27 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing in technology support and finance functions and $6.0 million related to stock based compensation as discussed above. Additional 2006 expenses included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $12 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Operating income of $1,259.5 million in 2006, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006, rose $319.9 million, or 34.0%, from $939.6 million in 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, operating income increased 17.0%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year over year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys operating margin for 2006 was 61.8% compared to 54.3% in 2005. The gain on the sale of the building increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Moodys reported $1.0 million of interest and other non operating income (expense), net in 2006 compared with ($4.9) million in 2005. Interest expense was $15.2 million in 2006 and $21.0 million in 2005. The amounts included $14.9 million and $20.9 million of interest expense on Moodys $300 million of notes payable for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest income was $18.2 million in 2006 compared to $26.0 million in 2005. The decrease was attributed to the liquidation of investment portfolios to finance share repurchases. Foreign exchange losses were immaterial in 2006 compared to $8.2 million in 2005. The year over year change was primarily due to the British pound and euro appreciating to the U.S. dollar. Moodys effective tax rate was 40.2% in 2006 compared to 40.0% in 2005. The 2006 and 2005 effective tax rates were reduced by benefits of $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally, Moodys recognized a tax benefit of approximately $3 million related to additional foreign tax credits in the fourth quarter of 2006 and a tax benefit of $3.6 million in 2005 related to the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The 2006 rate was also favorably impacted by approximately 30 basis points due to the settlement of state tax audits. 25 Net income was $753.9 million in 2006, an increase of $193.1 million or 34.4% from $560.8 million in 2005. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2006 were $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, compared to basic and diluted earnings per share of $1.88 and $1.84, respectively, for 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, 2006 net income was $659.8 million, an increase of $99.0 million or 17.7%. Additionally, the gain contributed $0.33 and $0.32 relating to full year basic and diluted earnings per share, respectively. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,894.3 million, up $294.0 million, or 18.4%, from $1,600.3 million in 2005. Ratings revenue accounted for $254.8 million of growth with increased revenue in global structured finance, corporate finance and financial institutions and sovereign risk offsetting a decline in public finance. Double digit growth in research also contributed to the increase in revenue. Foreign currency translation positively impacted revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in revenue. Structured finance revenue was $880.6 million in 2006, an increase of $181.3 million, or 25.9%, from $699.3 million in the same period of 2005. Approximately $111 million of the increase was in the U.S., with the collateralized debt and commercial mortgage backed sectors contributing about 94% of the U.S. increase. Year over year issuance of collateralized loan obligations and cash flow resecuritizations grew, in part, to the increased repackaging of securitized assets such as consumer asset backed and mortgage backed securities, as well as bank loans in collateralized debt obligations. Strong growth in commercial real estate collateralized debt obligation issuance was a key driver of overall commercial mortgage backed issuance. International structured finance revenue grew approximately $70 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $61 million, where credit derivatives, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled approximately 87% of the European growth. Foreign currency translation for structured finance positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $3 million. Corporate finance revenue was $380.1 million in 2006, up $66.3 million, or 21.1%, from $313.8 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 20.8% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. Investment grade bond issuance increased approximately 17% and high yield bond issuance increased approximately 43%, primarily due to significant mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and second lien loan activity. International corporate finance revenue increased approximately $24 million or about 22% due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in global corporate finance revenue. Revenue in the financial institutions and sovereign risk group was $266.8 million in 2006, an increase of $12.2 million or 4.8% from $254.6 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue grew approximately $11 million, principally due to strength in insurance and real estate sectors. Internationally, revenue increased $1.4 million compared to the prior year period. Public finance revenue was $112.3 million in 2006, a decrease of $5.0 million, or 4.3%, from $117.3 million in 2005. Dollar volume issuance in the municipal bond market declined compared to 2005, primarily due to lower refinancing activity. Research revenue of $254.5 million in 2006 was $39.2 million, or 18.2%, higher than $215.3 million in 2005. Revenue grew by approximately $29 million in the U.S. and about $11 million internationally, with Europe accounting for approximately 57% of international growth. Research and analytics services accounted for approximately $17 million of global revenue growth primarily from credit research on the corporate finance, financial institutions and the structured finance related businesses. Revenue from the licensing of Moodys information to financial customers for internal use and redistribution was approximately $57 million in 2006, an increase of approximately $8 million, or about 17% higher than the prior year. Moodys Investors Service operating and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $789.1 million in 2006, an increase of $143.7 million, or 22.3%, from $645.4 million in 2005. The largest contributor to 2006 expenses was growth in compensation and benefits of approximately $110 million reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses and higher stock based compensation expense of $21.4 million. Furthermore, expenses in 2006 included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $11 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Additional increases were due to increased information technology investment spending of approximately $8 million offset by a decrease of approximately $6 million in legal fees. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Additionally, expenses in 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $4 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. 26 Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,242.9 million in 2006 was up $306.6 million or 32.7% from $936.3 million in 2005, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006. Excluding the gain, operating income increased 15.6%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year to year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys KMV MKMV revenue of $142.8 million in 2006 was $11.5 million or 8.8% more than the same period in 2005. MKMVs revenue growth reflected increased demand for credit decision making software and software related maintenance services, which grew approximately 10% or $2.7 million compared to 2005. Growth in subscriptions revenue related to credit risk assessment products grew approximately 5% or $4.9 million compared to prior year and risk services revenue increased approximately $4 million or about 36% compared to prior year. In 2006, international MKMV revenue accounted for 56% of its global revenue. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses were $109.6 million in 2006, a decrease of $1.8 million or 1.6% from $111.4 million in 2005. The 2006 expenses include a total of $3.5 million due to training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses. Additionally, 2006 expenses include a $2.2 million charge recorded in connection with a non income tax matter. The 2005 expenses included approximately $7 million related to severance costs, the write off of capitalized software development and a liability for unpaid overtime due to certain employees. MKMV operating income was $16.6 million for 2006 compared with $3.3 million in 2005. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Reorganization and New Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV, sales of credit research produced by Moodys Investors Service and the production and sales of other products and services, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics (Analytics). The aforementioned reorganization will result in the Company operating in two new reportable segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, beginning in January 2008. The tables below present operating results for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as if the new segment structure described above had been in place as of January 1, 2005. Revenue for MIS and expenses for Analytics includes an intersegment royalty charged to Analytics for the rights to use and distribute content, data and products developed by MIS. Additionally, overhead costs and corporate expenses of the Company, all of which were previously included in the former MIS segment, are allocated to each new segment based on a revenue split methodology. Overhead expenses include costs such as rent and occupancy, information technology and support staff such as finance, human resource, information technology and legal. Eliminations represents intersegment royalty revenue/expense. December 31, 2007 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1835.4 $ 479.1 $ (55.5 ) $ 2,259.0 Operating expenses 759.4 331.2 (55.5 ) 1,035.1 Restructuring charge 41.3 8.7 50.0 Depreciation and amortization 24.0 18.9 42.9 Operating income $ 1,010.7 $ 120.3 $ $ 1,131.0 27 December 31, 2006 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Corporate items/Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,685.6 $ 397.3 $ (45.8 ) $ 2,037.1 Operating expenses 666.1 278.4 (45.8 ) 898.7 Depreciation and amortization 17.3 22.2 39.5 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) (160.6 ) Operating income $ 1,002.2 $ 96.7 $ 160.6 $ 1,259.5 December 31, 2005 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,425.6 $ 346.7 $ (40.7 ) $ 1,731.6 Operating expenses 554.4 243.1 (40.7 ) 756.8 Depreciation and amortization 15.5 19.7 35.2 Operating income $ 855.7 $ 83.9 $ $ 939.6 The table below presents revenue by line of business within each new segment and the related intra segment realignment: Year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Moodys Investors Service: Structured Finance $ 885.9 $ 883.6 $ 708.7 Corporate Finance 411.5 335.9 277.4 Financial Institutions 261.7 222.1 214.0 Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance 220.8 198.2 184.8 Total third party revenue 1,779.9 1,639.8 1,384.9 Intersegment royalty 55.5 45.8 40.7 Total MIS $ 1,835.4 $ 1,685.6 $ 1,425.6 Moodys Analytics: Subscription 421.5 347.5 305.0 Consulting 18.1 13.5 8.1 Software 39.5 36.3 33.6 Total Analytics 479.1 397.3 346.7 Eliminations (55.5 ) (45.8 ) (40.7 ) Total Moodys Corporation $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 As part of the reorganization there were several realignments within the MIS lines of business. Sovereign and sub sovereign ratings which were previously part of financial institutions; infrastructure/utilities ratings, which were previously part of corporate finance; and project finance, which was previously part of structured finance, were combined with the Public Finance business to form a new line of business called Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance. In addition, real estate investment trust ratings were moved from corporate finance to the structured finance business. Within Moodys Analytics various aspects of the legacy MIS Research business and MKMV business were combined to form the subscriptions, software and consulting businesses. The subscriptions business includes credit and economic research, data and analytical models that are sold on a subscription basis; the software business includes license and maintenance fees for credit risk software products, and the consulting business includes professional services and credit training associated with risk modeling, credit scorecard development, and other specialized analytical projects, as well as credit education services that are typically sold on a per engagement basis. 28 The following is a discussion of the results of operations of the new segments, excluding the aforementioned intersegment royalty revenue and related expense, as if they were operating as of January 1, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $1,779.9 million, up $140.1 million, or 8.5%, from $1,639.8 million in 2006. Global corporate finance, financial institutions and the public, project and infrastructure finance business increased $75.6 million, $39.6 million, and $22.6 million, respectively. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $411.5 million in 2007, an increase of 22.5%, from $335.9 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $45.3 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased leveraged loan activities and growth in investment grade bond issuance. International revenue of $141.5 million increased $30.3 million, or 27.2%, largely driven by growth in European bond issuance. Global financial institutions revenue was $261.7 million, up $39.6 million or 17.8% from $222.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $18.9 million, or 18.4%, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $139.7 million grew $20.7 million, or 17.4%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $885.9 million for 2007, an increase of $2.3 million from $883.6 million in 2006. Revenue of $569.6 million in the U.S., decreased $35.5 million, or 5.9%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half of 2007, largely from the credit derivatives and commercial real estate finance sectors, which includes real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, which were offset in the second half of 2007 by declining revenue in the residential mortgage backed securities, derivatives and commercial real estate finance as a result of credit market turmoil which reduced ratable issuance volume. Outside the U.S., revenue of $316.3 million increased $37.7 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.8 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $220.8 million, an increase of $22.6 million, or 11.4%, from $198.2 million in 2006. Revenue from project and infrastructure finance of $76.1 million showed the strongest growth with an increase of $13.5 million or 21.6% over 2006, mostly from within the U.S. Revenue of $144.7 million from the public finance sector, including U.S. public finance, sovereign and sub sovereign, increased $9.1 million, or 6.7%, over prior year driven by growth in combined issuance and new money issuance. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses and a $41.3 million restructuring charge in 2007, were $800.7 million, an increase of $134.6 million, or 20.2%, from $666.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense was the largest contributor to the year over year growth reflecting increased staffing internationally to support business growth, as well as additional headcount in the corporate compliance group. Stock based compensation expense increased year over year primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included an increase in allocated expenses such as increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $955.2 million in 2007 was flat compared to 2006. Excluding the $41.3 million restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $996.5 million increased $40.1 million, or 4.2%, from $956.4 million in 2006. Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $479.1 million, an increase of $81.8 million, or 20.6%, from 2006. U.S. revenue of $242.8 million increased $38.1 million, or 18.6%, and international revenue increased $43.7 million, or 22.7%, with 90.3% of the growth from Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $421.5 million was up $74.0 million, or 21.3%, over $347.5 million in 2006, reflecting continued demand from new and existing customers for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics 29 and other offerings. Software revenue of $39.5 million increased $3.2 million, or 8.8%, from $36.3 million in 2006 primarily from additional license and maintenance fees for credit decisioning and analysis products. Revenue from consulting services grew $4.6 million, or 34.1%, due to increased demand for credit education, risk modeling and scorecard development among customers seeking to implement sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. Operating expenses in 2007 including allocated corporate expenses and the $8.7 million restructuring charge, were $284.4 million, an increase of $51.8 million, or 22.3%, from $232.6 million in 2006. The increase is a result of additional compensation due to headcount growth of 8% and higher sales commission expense resulting from better than expected revenue growth over 2006. It also reflects an increase in allocated expenses due to increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Analytics operating income of $175.8 million in 2007 increased $33.3 million, or 23.4%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Operating income included an $8.7 million restructuring charge in 2007. Excluding the restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $184.5 million increased $42.0 million, or 29.5%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,639.8 million, up $254.9 million or 18.4% from $1,384.9 million in 2005 with global structured and corporate finance accounting for $233.4 million, or 91.6%, of the growth. Structured finance revenue was $883.6 million in 2006, an increase of $174.9 million or 24.7% from $708.7 million in the same period of 2005. Revenue in the U.S. of $605.0 million increased $111.4 million, or 22.6%, with commercial real estate finance, consisting of real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, and credit derivatives contributing $22.2 million and $85.6 million of the increase, respectively. International structured finance revenue grew $63.4 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $58 million, where credit derivatives, commercial real estate finance and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled 91.7% of the European growth. Corporate finance revenue was $335.9 million in 2006, up $58.5 million or 21.1% from $277.4 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 22.3% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. International revenue of $111.2 million increased $17.5 million, or 18.7%, due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Financial institutions revenue was $222.1 million in 2006, an increase of $8.1 million or 3.8% from $214.0 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue of $103.0 million grew $8.2 million, or 8.6%, principally due to strength in the insurance sector. Internationally, revenue was relatively flat compared to 2006 with decreases in Europe being offset by increases in Asia and other international locations. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $198.2 million in 2006, an increase of $13.4 million or 7.3% from $184.8 million in 2005, reflecting good growth in the project and infrastructure sectors internationally. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $666.1 million in 2006, an increase of $111.7 million, or 20.1%, from $554.4 million in 2005. The increase is due to incentive compensation reflecting improved financial results over prior year, additional salaries and benefits expense relating to higher global staffing to support the business growth. Non compensation expense increased over 2006 reflecting additional travel, training and recruiting, as well as an increase in professional service fees associated with technology investment spending. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $956.4 million in 2006 was up $141.4 million, or 17.3%, from $815.0 million in 2005 mostly driven by the growth in revenue. 30 Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $397.3 million, an increase of $50.6 million, or 14.6%, from $346.7 million in 2005. U.S. revenue of $204.7 million increased $33.1 million, or 19.3%, and international revenue increased $17.6 million, or 10.1%, with 63.1% reflecting growth in Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $347.5 million was up $42.5 million, or 13.9%, over $305.0 million in 2005, benefiting from higher sales of core research and data services coupled with new customer growth and lower attrition. Software revenue of $36.3 million increased $2.7 million, or 8.0%, from $33.6 million in 2005 reflecting greater demand for risk products and credit decision making software and related maintenance services. Revenue from consulting services was $13.5 million, an increase of $5.4 million, or 66.7%, from $8.1 million in 2005 reflecting an increase in the risk management needs of customers and the completion of contractual milestones. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $232.6 million in 2006, an increase of $30.2 million, or 14.9%, from $202.4 million in 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits relating to sales commissions from higher revenue coupled with additional staffing over 2005. The increase also reflects additional training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses to support business growth, as well as a $2.2 million charge in 2006 relating to a non income tax related matter. Market Risk Moodys maintains operations in 27 countries outside the United States. Approximately 33% of the Companys revenue was billed in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. Approximately 42% of the Companys expenses were incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. As such, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 35% of Moodys assets were located outside the U.S. Of Moodys aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $426.3 million at December 31, 2007, approximately $348 million was located outside the United States (with $104 million and $88 million in Luxembourg and the U.K., respectively), making the Company susceptible to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Additionally, all of Moodys aggregate short term investments of $14.7 million were located outside the United States. The effects of changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar on assets and liabilities of non U.S. operations with non U.S. functional currencies are charged or credited to the cumulative translation adjustment account in shareholders equity. Moodys cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality investment grade securities within and outside the United States. The Company manages its credit risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market mutual funds and issuers of high grade commercial paper. Short term investments primarily consist of high quality investment grade corporate bonds in Korea. The Company manages its credit risk exposure on cash equivalents and short term investments by limiting the amount it can invest with any single issuer. A portion of the Companys future billings and related revenue is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily related to the euros and British pound. Under the Companys current foreign exchange hedging program, the Company hedges a portion of foreign exchange currency risk for the purpose of reducing volatility in the Companys cash flows related to future euro and British pound billings and related revenue. Foreign exchange options are currently utilized to hedge these exposures and have maturities between one and fifteen months. As of December 2007 all contracts were set to expire at various times through March 2009 and were deemed to be highly effective under SFAS No. 133 and related accounting pronouncements. No credit losses are anticipated as the counterparties to these agreements are major financial institutions. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Companys outstanding options was recorded as an asset of $2.3 million consisting of the following notional amounts: Currency Pair of Option* Notional amount * GBP/USD &pound; 7.9 million EUR/USD 16.7 million EUR/GBP 61.5 million * GBP(&pound;) Great Britain pounds; EUR() euros; USD($) U.S. dollars 31 Unrealized gains or losses will be recorded in other comprehensive income and, once realized, the gains or losses will be recognized as an adjustment to revenue when the billings are recognized in revenue. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the exposure to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates on Moodys foreign exchange options. A hypothetical 10% favorable change in the overall option currency portfolio would result in a gain of approximately $10 million as of December 31, 2007. The maximum loss related to an adverse change in the option currency portfolio would be $2.3 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow The Company is currently financing its operations, capital expenditures and share repurchases through cash flow from operations and from financing activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $984.0 million, $752.5 million and $707.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The Company borrowed $847.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 increased by $231.5 million compared with 2006. A decrease in net income of $52.4 million reduced cash provided by operating activities. The increase in stock based compensation expense positively impacted cash flow from operations by $13.1 million compared to net income. Accounts receivable decreased approximately 7% in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with an increase of approximately 13% for the year ended December 31, 2006 increasing cash flow from operations by $79.1 million compared to 2006. The impact on cash flows of excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans decreased to $52.2 million from $103.2 million in 2006 due to fewer stock option exercises in 2007 compared with 2006. The favorable non cash resolution of a legacy tax matter in the second quarter of 2007 negatively impacted operating cash flow by $52.3 million compared to net income. Operating cash flow in 2006 included a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys former headquarters building. The $67.2 million reduction in cash flows from changes in other current assets is primarily due to the receipt of approximately $16 million from New D&B related to issuer based stock compensation tax deductions in 2006 and an approximate $40 million overpayment of 2007 state income taxes offset by an $8.5 million increase related to a receivable from the IRS for a legacy tax matter classified as a current asset in 2007. Furthermore, the $55.5 million change in cash flows associated with other assets is primarily due to a deposit made in the first quarter of 2006 of approximately $40 million with the IRS relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating cash flow decreased by $87.5 million due to reductions in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. This is primarily due to a decrease in net accrued income taxes of approximately $76.5 million, decreases in accrued incentive compensation of approximately $27 million and decreases in accounts payable of approximately $17 million, due to timing of payments offset by approximately $33 million in restructuring liabilities. Increases in FIN No. 48 and other non current tax and related liabilities increased cash flow from operations by approximately $83 million. Additionally, increases in the deferred rent liability contributed approximately $47 million to cash flow from operations relating primarily to the free rent period and tenant allowance on the 7WTC lease. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 increased by $44.6 million compared with 2005. Growth in net income contributed $193.1 million to cash provided by operating activities. The 2006 cash flows include a decrease relating to excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans of $103.2 million that are now classified as a cash flow from financing activities as required under SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation was presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an operating cash flow, along with other tax cash flows. The operating cash flow includes a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys headquarters building. The cash proceeds are reported as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. The change in accounts receivable is attributable to increases in revenue offset by improved collection. Additionally, Moodys deposited approximately $40 million with the IRS in the first quarter of 2006 relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. This deposit was recorded in other assets. Tax payments increased by $53 million in 2006 versus 2005 offset by increases in income taxes payable due to growth in pre tax net income. An increase in deferred revenue increased cash flow from operations by $28 million which is due to increased volume in annual and initial fees in both the ratings and research businesses. Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities was ($124.7) million, $116.1 million and ($150.4) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net maturities (investments) in short term investments, net of purchases, totaled $61.5 million, $22.5 million and ($88.9) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Capital expenditures, primarily for leasehold improvements and internal use software, totaled $181.8 million, $31.1 million and $31.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 increase relates primarily to the build out of the Companys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. The 2006 spending on acquisitions 32 was $39.2 million, which related primarily to the purchase of a 49% share in China Cheng Xin International Credit Rating Co. Ltd and the acquisition of Wall Street Analytics, Inc., net of cash acquired. The 2005 spending on acquisitions primarily related to the acquisition of Economy.com, net of cash acquired, and a contingent payment made in the second quarter of 2005 related to Korea Investors Service. The net proceeds received from the sale of the Companys former Corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006 were $163.9 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $861.5 million, $965.2 million and $666.5 million for years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company borrowed $547.4 million under its commercial paper program in 2007 to support share repurchases, build out of the new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. Additionally, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction $300.0 million aggregate principal Series 2007 1 Notes in the third quarter of 2007. Spending for share repurchases totaled $1,738.4 million, $1,093.6 million and $691.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Dividends paid were $85.2 million, $79.5 million and $60.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in dividends reflects a quarterly dividend paid of $0.08 per share 2007 versus a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in 2006 and $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in the subsequent quarters per share in 2005. These amounts were offset in part by proceeds from employee stock based compensation plans of $65.9 million, $105.3 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans were $52.2 million and $103.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decreases in proceeds from stock plans and the excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation plans is due primarily to a decrease in stock option exercise activity in 2007 compared to the same period in 2006. Future Cash Requirements The Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months and expects to have positive operating cash flow for fiscal year 2008. Cash requirements for periods beyond the next twelve months will depend, among other things, on the Companys profitability and its ability to manage working capital requirements. The Company currently expects to use a significant portion of its cash flow to continue its share repurchase program. The Company implemented a systematic share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2005 through an SEC Rule 10b5 1 program. Moodys may also purchase opportunistically when conditions warrant. The Companys intent is to return capital to shareholders in a way that serves their long term interests. As a result, Moodys share repurchase activity will continue to vary from quarter to quarter. The Company may borrow from various sources to fund share repurchases. On June 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program of which Moodys has approximately $24 million remaining at December 31, 2007. On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase program that the Company will begin utilizing upon completion of the 2006 authority. There is no established expiration date for either of these authorizations. At December 31,2007 the Company had $551.9 million, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million, of outstanding commercial paper and issued $300.0 million of 6.06% Series 2007 1 Notes, as described in the Indebtedness section below, to support share repurchases, the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. The Company entered into an operating lease agreement (the Lease) commencing on October 20, 2006 with 7 World Trade Center, LLC for 589,945 square feet of an office building located at 7WTC at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, which is serving as Moodys new headquarters. The Lease has an initial term of approximately 21 years with a total of 20 years of renewal options. The total base rent of the lease over its initial 21 year term is approximately $536 million including rent credits from the World Trade Center Rent Reduction Program promulgated by the Empire State Development Corporation. On March 28, 2007, the lease agreement was amended for the Company to lease an additional 78,568 square feet at 7WTC. The additional base rent is approximately $106 million over a 20 year term. The Company plans to incur approximately $21 million of costs to complete the build out its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC over the next year. On October 24, 2007, the Company announced a restructuring plan that would reduce global headcount, terminate certain technology contracts and consolidate certain corporate functions in response to the Companys reorganization announced on August 7, 2007 and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors. Included in the $50.0 million restructuring charge is $7.0 million of non cash settlements relating to pension curtailments and stock based compensation award modifications for certain terminated employees. During 2007, the Company made cash payments of $1.8 million relating to the $43.0 million cash component of the restructuring liability and expects cash outlays of approximately $31 million and $2 million during 2008 and 2009, respectively. The remaining liability of $8.1 million relates to annuity payments that will be made in connection with the Companys 33 pension and other post retirement benefit plans for certain terminated employees, which will commence when the employees reach retirement age beginning in 2009 and continue until all payments have been made. The Company also intends to use a portion of its cash flow to pay dividends. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at this rate, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company will from time to time consider cash outlays for acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses, products, services and technologies. The Company may also be required to make future cash outlays to pay to New D&B its share of potential liabilities related to the legacy tax and legal contingencies that are discussed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Contingencies. These potential cash outlays could be material and might affect liquidity requirements, and they could cause the Company to pursue additional financing. There can be no assurance that financing to meet cash requirements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. Indebtedness The following table summarizes total indebtedness as of December 31: 2007 2006 Notes payable: Senior notes, due 2015, 4.98% $ 300.0 $ 300.0 Senior notes, due 2017, 6.06% 300.0 Commercial paper, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million 551.9 Total 1,151.9 300.0 Less: current portion (551.9 ) Total long term debt $ 600.0 $ 300.0 Notes Payable On September 7, 2007, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.06% Series 2007 1 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017 (Series 2007 1 Notes) pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement (2007 Agreement). The Series 2007 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 6.06%, payable semi annually on March 7 and September 7 of each year. Under the terms of the 2007 Agreement, the Company may, from time to time within five years, in its sole discretion, issue additional series of senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million pursuant to one or more supplements to the 2007 Agreement. The Company may prepay the Series 2007 1 Notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a prepayment premium based on the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled payments, over the prepaid principal (Make Whole Amount). The 2007 Agreement contains covenants that limit the ability of the Company, and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: enter into transactions with affiliates, dispose of assets, incur or create liens, enter into any sale leaseback transactions, or merge with any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets. The Company must also not permit its total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio to exceed 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement (2005 Agreement) and issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Series 2005 1 Senior Unsecured Notes (Series 2005 1 Notes). The Series 2005 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.98%, payable semi annually on March 30 and September 30. The proceeds from the sale of the Series 2005 1 Notes were used to refinance $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding 7.61% Senior Notes which matured on September 30, 2005. In the event that Moodys pays all, or part, of the Series 2005 1 Notes in advance of their maturity (the Prepaid Principal), such prepayment will be subject to a penalty based on the Make Whole Amount. The Series 2005 1 Notes are subject to certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreements. 34 Commercial Paper On October 3, 2007, the Company entered into a commercial paper program (the Program) on a private placement basis under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes (the CP Notes) up to a maximum amount outstanding at any time of $1.0 billion. Amounts available under the Program may be re borrowed. The Program is supported by the Companys 2007 Facility (see Credit Facilities section below), if at any time funds are not available on favorable terms under the Program. The maturities of the CP Notes will vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The CP Notes will be sold at a discount from par or, alternatively, will be sold at par and bear interest at rates that will vary based upon market conditions at the time of the issuance. The rates of interest will depend on whether the CP Notes will be a fixed or floating rate. The interest on a floating rate may be based on the following: (a) certificate of deposit rate; (b) commercial paper rate; (c) the federal funds rate; (d) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR); (e) prime rate; (f) treasury rate; or (g) such other base rate as may be specified in a supplement. The Program contains certain events of default including, among other things: non payment of principal, interest or fees; violation of covenants; invalidity of any loan document; material judgments; and bankruptcy and insolvency events, subject in certain instances to cure periods. Credit Facilities On September 28, 2007, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion five year senior, unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2007 Facility), expiring in September 2012, which replaces both the $500.0 million Interim Facility, which was set to expire in February 2008 as well as the $500.0 million five year revolving credit facility entered into on September 1, 2004 and scheduled to expire in September 2009. The 2007 Facility will serve, in part, to support the commercial paper program discussed above. Interest on borrowings is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 16.0 to 40.0 basis points of the facility amount depending on the Companys ratio of total indebtedness to EBITDA (Earnings Coverage Ratio). The Company also pays quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the 2007 Facility. The quarterly fees for the 2007 Facility can range from 4.0 to 10.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also pays a utilization fee of 5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeds 50% of the total facility. The 2007 Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreement. The 2007 Facility also contains financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain an Earnings Coverage Ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the 2007 Facility. On August 8, 2007, the Company entered into an interim loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million that was to expire on February 8, 2008 (the Interim Facility). Interest on borrowings was payable at rates that were based on LIBOR plus a premium that could range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points of the Interim Facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the Interim Facility. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the Interim Facility and repaid the $100.0 million outstanding balance. On September 1, 2004, Moodys entered into a five year senior, unsecured bank revolving credit facility (the 2004 Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $160.0 million that was scheduled to expire in September 2009. Interest on the borrowings under the 2004 Facility was payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio, as defined in the related agreement. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeded 50% of the total facility. In October 2006, Moodys amended the 2004 Facility by increasing the limit on sale proceeds resulting from a sale leaseback transaction of its former corporate headquarters building from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. Additionally, the restriction on liens to secure indebtedness related to the building sale was also increased from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. The Company also increased the expansion feature of the 2004 Facility from $80.0 million to $340.0 million, subject to obtaining commitments for the incremental capacity at the time of draw down from the existing lenders. In April 2007, after receipt of all necessary approvals relating to the execution of the expansion feature, borrowing capacity under the 2004 Facility was increased to $500.0 million. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of the 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the 2004 Facility and repaid the $400.0 million outstanding balance. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all covenants contained within the note agreements and the 2007 Facility described above. 35 Interest (expense) income, net Interest (expense) income, net consists of: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Income $ 19.3 $ 18.2 $ 26.0 Expense on borrowings (40.7 ) (15.2 ) (21.0 ) Expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities (21.5 ) Reversal of interest (a) 17.5 Capitalized 1.1 Interest (expense) income, net $ (24.3 ) $ 3.0 $ 5.0 (a) Represents a reversal of accrued interest related to the favorable resolution of a legacy tax matter, as further discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Interest paid on all borrowings was $32.5 million, $14.9 million and $22.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Management may consider pursuing additional long term financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for operations, share repurchase and other strategic opportunities, which would result in higher financing costs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Moodys did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities where Moodys is the primary beneficiary, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, Moodys is not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if it had engaged in such relationships. Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due under the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less Than 1Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Over 5Years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 1,071.1 $ 72.6 $ 113.7 $ 105.3 $ 779.5 Notes payable (2) 910.6 33.2 66.2 66.2 745.0 Purchase obligations (3) 39.0 30.1 7.9 1.0 Borrowings under commercial paper program (4) 552.6 552.6 Capital lease obligations 4.5 1.7 2.8 Other (5) 59.9 2.6 12.1 9.2 36.0 Total (6) $ 2,637.7 $ 692.8 $ 202.7 $ 181.7 $ 1,560.5 (1) Includes rent payments relating to the 165,000 square foot, 17.5 year operating lease agreement entered into on February 6, 2008 to occupy six floors of an office tower in the Canary Wharf section of London, England. The Company will begin making rent payments in March 2011. (2) Includes $9.3 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2007 and $301.3 million of interest that will accrue and be due from January 1, 2008 through September 30, 2015 and 2017, when the Series 2005 1 Notes and the Series 2007 1 Notes mature, respectively. (3) Purchase obligations include approximately $21 million, excluding approximately $0.8 million of accrued liabilities, related to the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. Purchase obligations also include contracts for professional services, data processing and telecommunication services, and data back up facilities. (4) Includes $1.3 million of interest related to CP Notes outstanding under its commercial paper program at December 31, 2007 that will be due and paid at various times through December 31, 2008. As of February 27, 2008, the Company had approximately $746 million of CP Notes outstanding under the Program. See Indebtedness for further information. 36 (5) Includes $59.9 million of projected benefit payments relating to the Companys unfunded Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefit Plans described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. (6) The table above does not include the Companys net long term tax liabilities of $118.3 million, since the expected cash outflow of such amounts by period cannot be reasonably estimated. 2008 Outlook Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including Moodys KMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys new initiatives in fixed income pricing and valuations will also be captured within Moodys Analytics. Moodys outlook for 2008 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors, including interest rates, corporate profitability and business investment spending, merger and acquisition activity, consumer spending, residential mortgage borrowing and refinancing activity, securitization levels and capital markets issuance. There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and, if actual conditions differ from these assumptions, Moodys results for the year may differ from our current outlook. For Moodys overall, full year 2008 revenue is expected to decline in the low double digit percent range. This decline assumes foreign currency translation in 2008 at current exchange rates. The Company anticipates a weak first half of 2008 with improvement in market liquidity and issuance conditions later in the year. Under this scenario, Moodys first half 2008 performance is likely to reflect unusually weak market conditions, as well as challenging year on year comparisons against the first half of 2007 when the Company delivered record performance. The Company expects the full year 2008 operating margin to decline to the mid to high forties percent range, due primarily to lower ratings revenue. Full year expenses are expected to decrease approximately 5%, primarily due to the 2007 restructuring charge of $50.0 million, as well as expense savings from the restructuring actions, partially offset by investments in the growth areas of our business. Earnings per share for 2008 are projected in a range from $2.17 to $2.25, which reflects the estimated impact of share buy backs under the Companys share repurchase program. For the global Moodys Investors Service business, the Company expects revenue for the full year 2008 to decline in the mid to high teens percent range. Within the U.S., the Company projects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the mid twenties percent range for the full year 2008. In the U.S. structured finance business, Moodys expects revenue for the year to decline in the low to mid forties percent range, reflecting double digit percent declines in most asset classes, led by residential mortgage backed securities and credit derivatives ratings. In the U.S. corporate finance business, the Company expects revenue to decrease in the low teens percent range for the year driven by declines across all asset classes. In both the U.S. financial institutions and public, project and infrastructure finance sectors, Moodys projects revenue in 2008 to grow in the low single digit percent range. Outside the U.S. the Company expects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the low single digit percent range. Good growth from rating financial institutions; public, project and infrastructure finance; and corporate securities is expected to be more than offset by a decline in structured finance ratings revenue, primarily in Europe. For Moodys Analytics, the Company expects revenue growth in the mid teens percent range. In the U.S., growth is projected to be in the low teens percent range while outside the U.S., revenue is expected to increase in the high teens percent range. Growth in the subscription businesses is expected in the mid teens range, reflecting continued demand for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics, and the impact of our newly formed pricing and valuation business. In the consulting business, Moodys anticipates very strong growth, reflecting a robust pipeline of professional services engagements and credit training projects. There is considerable demand for Moodys expertise in credit education, risk modeling, and scorecard development as customers implement more sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. In the software business, the Company expects revenue to be flat versus 2007, as customers begin to migrate to new generation software platforms. 37 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value, and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is expected to increase the consistency of fair value measurements and applies only to those measurements that are already required or permitted to be measured at fair value by other accounting standards. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 2 (FSP FAS 157 2), which partially defers the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company has implemented the deferral provisions of FSP FAS 157 2 and as a result has partially implemented the provisions of SFAS No. 157 as of January 1, 2008. The partial implementation of SFAS 157 does not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations and the Company will apply, as of January 1, 2009, the provisions of SFAS No, 157 to its non financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination and not subsequently remeasured at fair value, non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value for a goodwill impairment assessment, nonfinancial long lived assets measured at fair value for an asset impairment assessment, and asset retirement obligations initially measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards which require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each reporting period. Items eligible for fair value election include recognized financial assets and liabilities such as equity method investments and investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values, written loan commitments, and certain warranties and insurance contracts where a warrantor or insurer is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, the election must be applied to individual instruments with certain restrictions, is irrevocable and must be applied to an entire instrument. Any upfront costs and fees related to the item elected for fair value must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred. At the implementation date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the implementation of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2008. The Company is currently determining the impact, if any, that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No.141R). SFAS No. 141R extends its applicability to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses and establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non controlling interest in the acquiree, and the goodwill acquired. SFAS 141R also expands disclosure requirements to improve the statement users abilities to evaluate the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of implementing SFAS No. 141R will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No.160). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parents ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS No. 160 also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners and requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be reported as equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of implementing SFAS No. 160 will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Contingencies From time to time, Moodys is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation that are incidental to the Companys business, including claims based on ratings assigned by Moodys. Moodys is also subject to ongoing tax audits in the normal course of business. Management periodically assesses the Companys liabilities and contingencies based upon the latest information available. 38 Moodys discloses material pending legal proceedings, other than routine litigation incidental to Moodys business, material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities and other pending matters that it may determine to be appropriate. For matters, except those related to income taxes, where it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company has recorded liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and periodically adjusts these as appropriate. When sufficient uncertainties exist, related to the outcome and or the amount or range of loss, management does not record a liability but discloses the contingency if significant. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities accordingly. For income tax matters, the Company employs the prescribed methodology of FIN No. 48, implemented as of January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained, based on its technical merits, as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities and is cooperating with those inquiries. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described below, in the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, although it is possible that the effect could be material to the Companys consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Legacy Contingencies Moodys continues to have exposure to certain potential liabilities assumed in connection with the 2000 Distribution (Legacy Contingencies). The following description of the relationships among Moodys, New D&B and their predecessor entities is important in understanding the Legacy Contingencies that relate to tax matters (Legacy Tax Matters). In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, ACNielsen Corporation and Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant). In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into two separate public companies: Old D&B and R.H. Donnelley Corporation. During 1998, Cognizant separated into two separate public companies: IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (NMR). In September 2000, Old D&B separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moodys, as further described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in the normal course of business, including through tax free restructurings of both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to normal review by tax authorities. Old D&B and its predecessors also entered into a series of agreements covering the sharing of any liabilities for payment of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on certain tax matters, and certain other potential tax liabilities, all as described in such agreements. Further, in connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moodys have agreed on the financial responsibility for any potential liabilities related to Legacy Tax Matters. Settlement agreements were executed with the IRS in 2005 regarding Legacy Tax Matters for the years 1989 1990 and 1993 1996. As of December 31, 2007, the Company continues to carry a liability of $1.8 million with respect to these matters. With respect to these settlement agreements, Moodys and New D&B believe that IMS Health and NMR did not pay their full share of the liability to the IRS pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements among the parties. Moodys and New D&B paid these amounts to the IRS on their behalf, and have been unable to resolve this dispute with IMS Health and NMR. As a result, Moodys and New D&B have commenced arbitration proceedings against IMS Health and NMR to collect a total of approximately $11 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1989 1990 matter. Moodys and New D&B may also commence an arbitration proceeding to collect a total of $14.5 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1993 1996 matter. Moodys cannot predict the outcome of these matters with any certainty. Amortization Expense Deductions and 1997 2002 IRS Deficiency Notices (the Notices) This legacy tax matter, which was affected by developments in June 2007 as further described below, involves a partnership transaction which resulted in amortization expense deductions on the tax returns of Old D&B since 1997. IRS audits of Old D&Bs and New D&Bs tax returns for the years 1997 through 2002 concluded in June 2007 without any disallowance of the amortization expense deductions, or any other adjustments to income related to this partnership 39 transaction. These audits did result in the IRS issuing the Notices for other tax issues for the 1997 2000 years aggregating $9.5 million in tax and penalties, plus statutory interest of approximately $7 million, which will be apportioned among Moodys, New D&B, IMS Health and NMR pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements. Moodys share of this assessment is anticipated to be $7.2 million including interest, net of tax. In November 2007, the IRS assessed the tax and penalties and used a portion of the deposit discussed below to satisfy the assessment, together with interest. The Company believes it has meritorious grounds to challenge the IRSs actions and is evaluating its alternatives for further actions to recover these amounts The absence of any tax deficiencies in the Notices for the amortization expense deductions for the years 1997 through 2000 and in companion Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002, combined with the expiration of the statute of limitations for 1997 through 2002, for issues not assessed, resulted in Moodys recording an earnings benefit of $52.3 million in its second quarter. This is comprised of two components, as follows: (i) a reversal of a tax liability of $27.3 million related to the period from 1997 through the Distribution Date, reducing the provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007; and (ii) a reduction of accrued interest expense of $17.5 million ($10.6 million, net of tax) and an increase in other non operating income of $14.4 million, relating to amounts due to New D&B, for the year ended December 31, 2007. On the Distribution Date in 2000, New D&B paid Moodys $55.0 million for 50% of certain anticipated future tax benefits of New D&B through 2012. It is possible that IRS audits of New D&B for tax years after 2002 could result in income adjustments with respect to the amortization expense deductions of this partnership transaction. In the event these tax benefits are not claimed or otherwise not realized by New D&B, or there is an audit adjustment, Moodys would be required, pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, to repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted value of its share of the related future tax benefits and its share of any tax liability that New D&B incurs . As of December 31, 2007, Moodys liability with respect to this matter totaled $52.8 million. In March 2006, New D&B and Moodys each deposited $39.8 million with the IRS in order to stop the accrual of statutory interest on potential tax deficiencies with respect to the 1997 through 2002 tax years. In July 2007, New D&B and Moodys commenced procedures to recover approximately $56 million of these deposits ($24.4 million for New D&B and $31.6 million for Moodys), which represents the excess of the original deposits over the total of the deficiencies asserted in the Notices and in companion Statutory Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002. As noted above, in November 2007 the IRS used $7.9 million of Moodys portion of the deposit to satisfy an assessment and related interest. Additionally, in January 2008 the IRS paid Moodys $8.5 million in connection with this matter. At December 31, 2007, Moodys has recorded liabilities for Legacy Tax Matters totaling $56.7 million. This includes liabilities and accrued interest due to New D&B arising from the 2000 Distribution Agreement. It is possible that the ultimate liability for Legacy Tax Matters could be greater than the liabilities recorded by the Company, which could result in additional charges that may be material to Moodys future reported results, financial position and cash flows. Dividends During 2007, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.32 during the year. During 2006, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.28 during the year. During 2005, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in each of the three subsequent quarters, per share of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.2025 during the year. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at the rate noted above, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 40 Common Stock Information The Companys common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol MCO. The table below indicates the high and low sales price of the Companys common stock and the dividends declared for the periods shown. The number of registered shareholders of record at January 31, 2008 was 3,522. Price Per Share DividendsDeclaredPer Share High Low 2006: First quarter $ 71.95 $ 61.09 $ 0.07 Second quarter 73.29 49.77 0.07 Third quarter 65.84 49.76 0.07 Fourth quarter 71.70 60.60 0.08 Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 0.29 2007: First quarter $ 76.09 $ 58.65 $ 0.08 Second quarter 73.69 60.60 0.08 Third quarter 63.70 42.42 0.08 Fourth quarter 55.99 35.05 0.10 Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 0.34 Forward Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and prospects for the Companys business and operations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. Those statements appear at various places throughout this annual report on Form 10 K, including in the sections entitled Outlook and Contingencies under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, commencing on page 17 of this annual report on Form 10 K, under Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10 K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, will, predict, potential, continue, strategy, aspire, target, forecast, project, estimate, should, could, may and similar expressions or words and variations thereof relating to the Companys views on future events, trends and contingencies. Stockholders and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. The forward looking statements and other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10 K, and the Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly supplement, update or revise such statements on a going forward basis, whether as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying examples of factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated by these forward looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, matters that could affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and or global capital markets, including credit quality concerns, changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets; concerns in the marketplace affecting our credibility or otherwise affecting market perceptions of the integrity or utility of independent agency ratings; increased pricing pressure from competitors and or customers; the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; the impact of regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and the potential for new U.S., state and local legislation and regulations; the potential for increased competition and regulation in foreign jurisdictions; exposure to litigation related to our rating opinions, as well as any other litigation to which the Company may be subject from time to time; the possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures; failures or malfunctions of our operations and infrastructure; the outcome of any review by controlling tax authorities of the Companys global tax planning initiatives; the outcome of those legacy tax and legal contingencies that relate to the Company, its predecessors and their affiliated companies for which Moodys has assumed portions of the financial responsibility; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by financial institutions. These factors, risks and uncertainties as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause Moodys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements are described in greater detail under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10 K, elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other filings made by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated herein or therein. Stockholders and investors 41 are cautioned that the occurrence of any of these factors, risks and uncertainties may cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. New factors may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict new factors, nor can the Company assess the potential effect of any new factors on it. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption Market Risk in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K. 42 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Contingencies, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on Moodys future reported results and financial position. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the provision for income taxes reflected credits of $27.3 million, $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, due to changes in the Companys liabilities for legacy income tax exposures that were assumed by Moodys in connection with its separation from Old D&B in October 2000. These tax matters are more fully described under the caption Legacy Contingencies within Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Moodys evaluates its goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill requires that the Company make important assumptions and judgments about future operating results and cash flows as well as terminal values and discount rates. In estimating future operating results and cash flows, Moodys considers internal budgets and strategic plans, expected long term growth rates, and the effects of external factors and market conditions. If actual future operating results and cash flows or external conditions differ from the Companys judgments, or if changes in assumed terminal values or discount rates are made, an impairment charge may be necessary to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, which charge could be material to the Companys financial position and results of operations. Amortizable intangible assets are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Restructuring Charge The Company has engaged, and may continue to engage, in restructuring actions, which require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for severance and other employee benefit costs, contract termination costs and asset impairments. If the actual amounts differ from these estimates, the amount of the restructuring charge could be impacted. For a full description of Moodys restructuring actions, refer to the Results of Operations section below and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefits The expenses, assets, liabilities and obligations that Moodys reports for pension and other post retirement benefits are dependent on many assumptions concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These assumptions include the following: future compensation increases, based on the Companys long term actual experience and future outlook long term return on pension plan assets, based on historical portfolio results and the expected future average annual return for each major asset class within the plans portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed income investments) future healthcare cost trends, based on historical market data, near term outlooks and assessments of likely long term trends discount rates, based on current yields on high grade corporate long term bonds The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Companys benefit obligations as of December 31, 2007 was derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares the plans projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank pension discount curve. The cash flows are then discounted back to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. Moodys major assumptions vary by plan and assumptions used are set forth in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. In determining these assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries and other advisors as deemed appropriate. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in its calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions could have a significant effect on the expenses, assets and liabilities related to the Companys pension and other post retirement benefits. 19 When actual plan experience differs from the assumptions used, actuarial gains or losses arise. To the extent the total outstanding gain or loss exceeds a corridor threshold as defined in SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87), the excess is subject to amortization in annual expense over the estimated average future working lifetime of active plan participants. For Moodys pension and other post retirement benefit plans, the total losses as of December 31, 2007 which have not been recognized in annual expense are $19.0 million and in 2008, Moodys expects amortization of actuarial losses to be immaterial. For Moodys funded pension plan, the differences between the expected long term rate of return assumption and actual experience could also affect the net periodic pension expense. As permitted under SFAS No. 87, the Company spreads the impact of asset experience over a five year period for purposes of calculating the market related value of assets which is used in determining the expected return on assets component of annual expense and in calculating the total unrecognized gain or loss subject to amortization. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has an unrecognized asset gain of $4.1 million, of which $1.7 million will be recognized in the market related value of assets that is used to calculate the expected return on assets component of 2009 expense. The table below shows the estimated effect that a one percentage point decrease in each of these assumptions will have on Moodys 2008 operating income (dollars in millions). These effects have been calculated using the Companys current projections of 2008 assets, liabilities, obligations and expenses related to pension and other post retirement plans, which could change as updated data becomes available. Assumption Used for2008 Estimated Impact on2008 Operating Income (Decrease)/Increase Discount Rate* 6.45% / 6.35 % $ (5.8 ) Weighted Average Assumed Compensation Growth Rate 4.00 % $ 0.7 Assumed Long Term Rate of Return on Pension Assets 8.35 % $ (1.2 ) * Discount rates of 6.45% and 6.35% are used for pension plans and other post retirement plans, respectively. A one percentage point increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates will not affect 2008 projected expenses. Based on current projections, the Company estimates that expenses related to pension and post retirement plans will be approximately $13 million in 2008 compared with $16.2 million in 2007, excluding the costs of curtailment and special termination benefits of $10.8 million in 2007. The expected expense decrease in 2008 reflects the effects of higher discount rates, lower amortization of actuarial losses and reduction in workforce due to restructuring, which are partially offset by lower plan asset gains. Stock Based Compensation On January 1, 2006, the Company implemented, under the modified prospective application method, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R). Under this pronouncement, companies are required to record compensation expense for all share based payment award transactions granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. This includes shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. Previously, on January 1, 2003, the Company implemented, on a prospective basis, the fair value method of accounting for stock based compensation under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model that uses assumptions and estimates that the Company believes are reasonable. Some of the assumptions and estimates, such as share price volatility and expected option holding period, are based in part on Moodys experience during the period since becoming a public company, which is limited. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could produce materially different estimated fair values for option awards and related expense. An increase in the following assumptions would have had the following estimated effect on operating income in 2007 (dollars in millions): Assumption Used Increase inAssumption Estimated Impact onOperating Income in 2007Increase/(Decrease) Average Expected Dividend Yield 2003 2007 grants 0.41% 0.52% 0.10 % $ 1.2 Average Expected Share Price Volatility 2003 2007 grants 23% 30% 5 % $ (4.6 ) Expected Option Holding Period 2003 2007 grants 5.0 6.0 years 1.0 year $ (3.9 ) 20 Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The Companys tax assets and liabilities are affected by the amounts charged for service provided and expenses incurred as well as other tax matters such as inter company transactions. The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Therefore, income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. Moodys is subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions which involve legacy and other tax matters. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of such audits in order to determine the appropriateness of its FIN No. 48 tax liabilities. On January 1, 2007, upon the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company implemented the accounting policy to classify interest related to income taxes as a component of interest expense in the Companys consolidated financial statements and to classify associated penalties, if any, as part of other non operating expenses. Prior to the implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company had classified interest related to income taxes and associated penalties as components of income tax expense. In accordance with FIN No. 48, prior period financial statements have not been reclassified for this change. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Upon the initial implementation of FIN No. 48, the Company recorded a reduction of its January 1, 2007 retained earnings of $43.3 million, which is comprised of $32.9 million of tax and accrued interest of $17.3 million ($10.4 million, net of tax). As the determination of FIN No. 48 liabilities and associated interest and penalties requires significant estimates to be made by the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and thus, the eventual outcomes could have a material impact on the Companys net income or financial condition. Other Estimates In addition, there are other accounting estimates within Moodys consolidated financial statements, including recoverability of deferred tax assets, anticipated dividend distributions from non U.S. subsidiaries and valuation of investments in affiliates. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on Moodys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact Moodys. Operating Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. See Reorganization and New Segments section below. In 2007 and prior years, Moodys operated in two reportable segments: Moodys Investors Service and MKMV. Moodys Investors Service consisted of (i) four rating groups structured finance, corporate finance, financial institutions and sovereign risk, and public finance that generate revenue principally from the assignment of credit ratings to issuers and issues of fixed income obligations in the debt markets, and (ii) research, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of investor oriented credit information research, data and other analytical tools that are produced principally by the rating groups. For presentation purposes, Europe represents Europe, the Middle East and Africa and public finance represents U.S. public finance. Given the dominance of Moodys Investors Service to Moodys overall results, the Company does not separately measure or report corporate expenses, nor are such expenses allocated between the Companys business segments. Accordingly, all corporate expenses are included in operating income of the Moodys Investors Service segment and none have been allocated to the MKMV segment. The MKMV business develops and distributes quantitative credit risk assessment products and services, including credit processing software and analytical tools for credit portfolio management. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. 21 Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Total Company Results Moodys revenue for 2007 totaled $2,259.0 million, an increase of $221.9 million, or 10.9%, from $2,037.1 million for the same period in 2006. The main contributors to this growth were the corporate finance and research lines of business, which increased $85.3 million, or 22.4%, and $69.8 million, or 27.4%, respectively. MKMV revenue contributed 5.4% of the Companys year over year growth, driven by the software and risk subscriptions businesses. Revenue in the United States was $1,361.8 million in 2007, an increase of $84.0 million, or 6.6%, from $1,277.8 million in 2006. Corporate finance and research revenue achieved strong growth of $51.7 million and $33.8 million, respectively, partially offset by a $29.4 million decline in structured finance, resulting from the significant slow down in the credit securitization markets. International revenue was $897.2 million in 2007, an increase of $137.9 million, or 18.2%, from $759.3 million in 2006. Revenue from the structured finance, research and corporate finance lines of business contributed approximately $39 million, $36 million and $34 million, respectively, to the increase. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $39 million of international revenue growth. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the Plan) in response to the Companys reorganization and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors, as more fully described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. A restructuring charge of $50.0 million was recorded in 2007, which consisted of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs, and $4.1 million for contract termination costs. Moodys operating and selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) of $1,035.1 million in 2007 were $136.4 million, or 15.2%, more than $898.7 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately 70% of total operating and SG&A expenses, representing approximately $77 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of approximately 3,500 employees during the year ended December 31, 2007 was approximately 13% higher than during 2006. This increase reflects the impact of hiring from late 2006 and the first half of 2007 to support business growth mainly in the U.S., Asian and European ratings businesses offset by a partial completion of the workforce reductions relating to the restructuring actions implemented in the fourth quarter of 2007. The table below shows Moodys global staffing by operating segment and geographic area at December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,869 1,284 3,153 1,843 1,106 2,949 Moodys KMV 297 122 419 304 97 401 Total 2,166 1,406 3,572 2,147 1,203 3,350 Operating expenses were $584.0 million in 2007, an increase of $44.6 million, or 8.3%, from $539.4 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised approximately 77% of the growth, reflecting normal salary increases coupled with higher staffing levels compared to prior year, partially offset by lower incentive compensation. The staffing level increase reflects hiring in the first half of 2007 to support business growth, primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount increased by approximately 14% over 2006. Non compensation expenses of $96.8 million increased $10.2 million primarily from professional service costs associated with technology investments. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $451.1 million in 2007, an increase of $91.8 million, or 25.5%, from $359.3 million in 2006. Compensation expense of $238.8 million increased $46.5 million, or 24.2%, from 2006 reflecting increased staffing levels in the corporate compliance and technology support functions coupled with the increase in stock based compensation. Non compensation expense of $212.3 million was up $45.3 million, or 27.1%, over 2006 due to higher rent and occupancy costs of $39.3 million, or 88.2%, over 2006 primarily related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7 World Trade Center (7WTC) and an increase in professional service costs of $21.6 million relating to technology investment spending and legal matters. 22 Operating income in 2007 includes a $50.0 million restructuring charge consisting of $45.9 million of expenses relating to severance and other employee benefit costs and $4.1 million for contract termination costs, as further discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating income of $1,131.0 million decreased $128.5 million, or 10.2%, from $1,259.5 million in 2006, which reflects approximately $21 million of foreign currency translation gains. Moodys operating margin for 2007 was 50.1% compared to 61.8% in 2006. The restructuring charge in 2007 decreased the 2007 margin by approximately 220 basis points while the gain on building sale increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Interest and other non operating (expense) income, net was $(14.3) million in 2007 compared with $1.0 million in 2006. Interest expense on borrowings was $40.7 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase was due to borrowings under the Companys credit facilities, the issuance of the $300.0 million Series 2007 1 Notes in September 2007, and issuance under the Companys commercial paper program which was established in October 2007. Interest expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities was $21.5 million in 2007. In 2006, before Fin No. 48 became effective, interest on tax liabilities was reported as part of income tax expense, net of Federal tax benefit. There was also a $17.5 million reduction of accrued interest expense and a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income both for amounts due to New D&B related to the Amortization Expense Deductions legacy tax matter more fully described in Contingencies Legacy Contingencies, below. Interest income earned on short term investments and invested cash balances was $19.3 million and $18.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Foreign exchange gains (losses) were immaterial in both 2007 and 2006. Moodys effective tax rate was 37.2% in 2007 compared to 40.2% in 2006. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates included benefits of $27.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally in 2007, there was a $14.4 million increase in other non operating income, which was not taxable, related to legacy tax matters. These matters favorably impacted the Companys 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates by approximately 295 basis points and 30 basis points, respectively. Net income was $701.5 million in 2007, a decrease of $52.4 million, or 7.0%, from $753.9 million in 2006. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2007 were $2.63 and $2.58, respectively, compared to $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, for 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge in 2007, the gain on building sale in 2006 and legacy tax adjustments in both years, net income increased $21.8 million, or 3.3%, and earnings per share increased $0.25, or 11.1%, to $2.50 per share. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $2,104.2 million, up $209.9 million, or 11.1%, from $1,894.3 million in 2006. Ratings revenue accounted for $140.1 million of the increase, with growth largely driven by global corporate finance, and financial institutions. Foreign currency translation accounted for approximately $32 million of ratings revenue growth. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $465.4 million in 2007, an increase of $85.3 million, or 22.4%, from $380.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $51.7 million, or 21.0%, primarily due to exceptionally strong growth in speculative grade and bank loans in the first half of 2007 offset by revenue declines in the second half of 2007 compared to the second half of 2006. In the second half of 2007, U.S. investment grade revenue increased 57.0% compared to a 7.7% increase in the first half of 2007. International revenue of $167.1 million increased $33.6 million, or 25.2%, largely driven by growth in European investment grade and speculative grade bond issuance as well as a 71.2% increase in bank loan revenue. Global financial institutions revenue was $303.1 million, up $36.3 million, or 13.6%, from $266.8 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $15.1 million, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $165.3 million grew $21.2 million, or 14.7%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $890.6 million for 2007, an increase of 1.1%, or $10.0 million, from $880.6 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S., decreased $29.4 million, or 5.0%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half, largely from the derivatives and commercial mortgage backed securities sectors, was offset by significant revenue declines in the second half of 2007 principally in residential and commercial mortgage backed securities as well as derivatives due to the 23 credit market turmoil which began early in the third quarter of 2007. Outside the U.S., revenue of $328.5 million increased $39.4 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.7 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. International growth was 40.4% in the first half of 2007 offset by a significant slowdown in the second half of 2007 due to the credit market turmoil. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $16 million. Public finance revenue was $120.8 million, an increase of $8.5 million, or 7.6%, from $112.3 million in 2006. Revenue growth was driven by a $4.4 million, or 12.4% increase in the housing, health care, higher education, and infrastructure sectors as well as a $3.0 million, or 11.3%, increase in the municipal structured products sector. Global research revenue of $324.3 million was $69.8 million, or 27.4%, higher than the $254.5 million in 2006, as a result of strong sales of core research products and analytic services to new and existing customers. U.S. revenue of $176.0 million increased $33.8 million, or 23.8%, and international revenue increased $36.0 million, or 32.1%, with 77.5% reflecting growth in Europe. Moodys Investors Service operating, and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $922.1 million, an increase of $133.0 million, or 16.9%, from $789.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense comprised the largest portion of the 2007 expense growth, accounting for 50.8% of the increase from 2006, reflecting normal salary increases, higher staffing primarily in the international ratings businesses where headcount grew approximately 16% from 2006, as well as in the corporate compliance and technology support functions. Stock based compensation expense also contributed to the year over year increase primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included increased rent and occupancy costs of $39.8 million related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs of approximately $25 million primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal expenses. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $17 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,105.4 million in 2007 was down $137.5 million, or 11.1%, from $1,242.9 million in 2006. Operating income included a $45.6 million restructuring charge in 2007 and a $160.6 million gain on the sale of the former corporate headquarters building in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge and gain on building sale, operating income increased $68.7 million, or 6.3%, with foreign currency translation contributing approximately $22 million of the growth. Moodys KMV Revenue at MKMV in 2007 was $154.8 million, up $12.0 million, or 8.4%, from $142.8 million in 2006. Global revenue was driven by growth in annualized risk subscriptions and software license fees of $8.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively. U.S. revenue of $66.8 million increased 6.9% from $62.5 million in 2006. Outside the U.S., revenue increased $7.7 million, or 9.6%, over prior year. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses in 2007 including the $4.4 million restructuring charge, were $117.4 million, an increase of $7.8 million, or 7.1%, from $109.6 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense increased $9.9 million primarily reflecting normal salary increases coupled with increased staffing as well as an approximate $2 million reduction of certain employee obligations reflected in 2006. MKMV operating income was $25.6 million for 2007, an increase of $9.0 million, or 54.2%, compared with $16.6 million in 2006. Excluding the restructuring charge, MKMVs 2007 operating income increased $13.4 million, or 80.7%, from 2006. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Total Company Results Moodys revenue in 2006 was $2,037.1 million, an increase of $305.5 million, or 17.6%, from $1,731.6 million for the same period of 2005. Moodys achieved strong revenue growth above the rate of the overall corporation in global structured finance, corporate finance and research, and below the corporate rate in financial institutions and MKMV, with a decline in revenue from public finance. 24 Revenue in the United States was $1,277.8 million in 2006, an increase of $192.4 million, or 17.7%, from $1,085.4 million in 2005. Approximately 80% of the U.S. growth was driven by structured finance and corporate finance, reflecting strong issuance across most structured asset classes as well as corporate bonds and bank loans. Research, financial institutions and MKMV contributed to year over year growth as well. Moodys international revenue was $759.3 million in 2006, an increase of $113.1 million, or 17.5%, from $646.2 million in 2005. International ratings revenue grew approximately $96 million versus the prior year, with about 80% of the growth in Europe where credit derivatives, corporate finance, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors were primary drivers of growth. European research and MKMV contributed to growth as well. Foreign currency translation positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Moodys operating and SG&A expenses of $898.7 million in 2006 were $141.9 million, or 18.8%, more than $756.8 million in 2005. Compensation and benefits continue to be Moodys largest expense, accounting for approximately $103 million in growth from prior year. Moodys average global staffing of more than 3,100 employees during the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately 15% higher than during the same prior year period. This increase includes hiring to support business growth mainly in the U.S. and European ratings businesses. The table below shows Moodys staffing at year end 2006 compared with year end 2005. December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 United States International Total United States International Total Moodys Investors Service 1,843 1,106 2,949 1,600 919 2,519 Moodys KMV 304 97 401 303 74 377 Total 2,147 1,203 3,350 1,903 993 2,896 Operating expenses were $539.4 million in 2006, an increase of $86.5 million, or 19.1%, from $452.9 million in 2005. The largest contributor to this increase was growth in compensation and benefits expense of approximately $76 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing and higher stock based compensation expense. Moodys global staffing reflected hiring primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses to support business growth. Stock based compensation expense increased $16.3 million year over year due, in part, to the final year of phasing in of expense over the current four year equity plan vesting period and the effects of a higher share price on the value of the 2006 equity grants versus 2005, offset by additional expense recorded in the first quarter of 2005 related to the accelerated expensing of equity grants for employees at or near retirement eligibility. Expenses for 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $359.3 million in 2006, an increase of $55.4 million, or 18.2%, from $303.9 million in 2005. Year over year expense increases included growth in compensation and benefits of $27 million, reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing in technology support and finance functions and $6.0 million related to stock based compensation as discussed above. Additional 2006 expenses included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $12 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Operating income of $1,259.5 million in 2006, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006, rose $319.9 million, or 34.0%, from $939.6 million in 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, operating income increased 17.0%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year over year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys operating margin for 2006 was 61.8% compared to 54.3% in 2005. The gain on the sale of the building increased the 2006 margin by approximately 790 basis points. Moodys reported $1.0 million of interest and other non operating income (expense), net in 2006 compared with ($4.9) million in 2005. Interest expense was $15.2 million in 2006 and $21.0 million in 2005. The amounts included $14.9 million and $20.9 million of interest expense on Moodys $300 million of notes payable for 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest income was $18.2 million in 2006 compared to $26.0 million in 2005. The decrease was attributed to the liquidation of investment portfolios to finance share repurchases. Foreign exchange losses were immaterial in 2006 compared to $8.2 million in 2005. The year over year change was primarily due to the British pound and euro appreciating to the U.S. dollar. Moodys effective tax rate was 40.2% in 2006 compared to 40.0% in 2005. The 2006 and 2005 effective tax rates were reduced by benefits of $2.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, related to legacy income tax matters, see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information. Additionally, Moodys recognized a tax benefit of approximately $3 million related to additional foreign tax credits in the fourth quarter of 2006 and a tax benefit of $3.6 million in 2005 related to the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. The 2006 rate was also favorably impacted by approximately 30 basis points due to the settlement of state tax audits. 25 Net income was $753.9 million in 2006, an increase of $193.1 million or 34.4% from $560.8 million in 2005. Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2006 were $2.65 and $2.58, respectively, compared to basic and diluted earnings per share of $1.88 and $1.84, respectively, for 2005. Excluding the gain on sale, 2006 net income was $659.8 million, an increase of $99.0 million or 17.7%. Additionally, the gain contributed $0.33 and $0.32 relating to full year basic and diluted earnings per share, respectively. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,894.3 million, up $294.0 million, or 18.4%, from $1,600.3 million in 2005. Ratings revenue accounted for $254.8 million of growth with increased revenue in global structured finance, corporate finance and financial institutions and sovereign risk offsetting a decline in public finance. Double digit growth in research also contributed to the increase in revenue. Foreign currency translation positively impacted revenue growth by approximately $1 million. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in revenue. Structured finance revenue was $880.6 million in 2006, an increase of $181.3 million, or 25.9%, from $699.3 million in the same period of 2005. Approximately $111 million of the increase was in the U.S., with the collateralized debt and commercial mortgage backed sectors contributing about 94% of the U.S. increase. Year over year issuance of collateralized loan obligations and cash flow resecuritizations grew, in part, to the increased repackaging of securitized assets such as consumer asset backed and mortgage backed securities, as well as bank loans in collateralized debt obligations. Strong growth in commercial real estate collateralized debt obligation issuance was a key driver of overall commercial mortgage backed issuance. International structured finance revenue grew approximately $70 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $61 million, where credit derivatives, commercial mortgage backed and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled approximately 87% of the European growth. Foreign currency translation for structured finance positively impacted international revenue growth by approximately $3 million. Corporate finance revenue was $380.1 million in 2006, up $66.3 million, or 21.1%, from $313.8 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 20.8% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. Investment grade bond issuance increased approximately 17% and high yield bond issuance increased approximately 43%, primarily due to significant mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and second lien loan activity. International corporate finance revenue increased approximately $24 million or about 22% due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Price increases also contributed to year over year growth in global corporate finance revenue. Revenue in the financial institutions and sovereign risk group was $266.8 million in 2006, an increase of $12.2 million or 4.8% from $254.6 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue grew approximately $11 million, principally due to strength in insurance and real estate sectors. Internationally, revenue increased $1.4 million compared to the prior year period. Public finance revenue was $112.3 million in 2006, a decrease of $5.0 million, or 4.3%, from $117.3 million in 2005. Dollar volume issuance in the municipal bond market declined compared to 2005, primarily due to lower refinancing activity. Research revenue of $254.5 million in 2006 was $39.2 million, or 18.2%, higher than $215.3 million in 2005. Revenue grew by approximately $29 million in the U.S. and about $11 million internationally, with Europe accounting for approximately 57% of international growth. Research and analytics services accounted for approximately $17 million of global revenue growth primarily from credit research on the corporate finance, financial institutions and the structured finance related businesses. Revenue from the licensing of Moodys information to financial customers for internal use and redistribution was approximately $57 million in 2006, an increase of approximately $8 million, or about 17% higher than the prior year. Moodys Investors Service operating and SG&A expenses, including corporate expenses, were $789.1 million in 2006, an increase of $143.7 million, or 22.3%, from $645.4 million in 2005. The largest contributor to 2006 expenses was growth in compensation and benefits of approximately $110 million reflecting compensation increases, increased staffing primarily in the U.S. and European ratings businesses and higher stock based compensation expense of $21.4 million. Furthermore, expenses in 2006 included increased rent and occupancy costs of approximately $11 million to support business expansion and costs associated with Moodys new corporate headquarters. Additional increases were due to increased information technology investment spending of approximately $8 million offset by a decrease of approximately $6 million in legal fees. Expenses for 2005 included a charge of $9.4 million for the settlement of sales tax matters related to Moodys operations in Japan from 2000 through June 30, 2005, which was a result of a tax audit by Japanese taxing authorities that was completed in the second quarter of 2005. Additionally, expenses in 2005 included $3.2 million for the settlement of certain pension obligations. Foreign currency translation contributed approximately $4 million to year to year growth in reported expenses. 26 Moodys Investors Service operating income of $1,242.9 million in 2006 was up $306.6 million or 32.7% from $936.3 million in 2005, which included a $160.6 million gain on the sale of Moodys corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006. Excluding the gain, operating income increased 15.6%. The effects of foreign currency translation reduced year to year growth in operating income by approximately $3 million. Moodys KMV MKMV revenue of $142.8 million in 2006 was $11.5 million or 8.8% more than the same period in 2005. MKMVs revenue growth reflected increased demand for credit decision making software and software related maintenance services, which grew approximately 10% or $2.7 million compared to 2005. Growth in subscriptions revenue related to credit risk assessment products grew approximately 5% or $4.9 million compared to prior year and risk services revenue increased approximately $4 million or about 36% compared to prior year. In 2006, international MKMV revenue accounted for 56% of its global revenue. MKMVs operating and SG&A expenses were $109.6 million in 2006, a decrease of $1.8 million or 1.6% from $111.4 million in 2005. The 2006 expenses include a total of $3.5 million due to training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses. Additionally, 2006 expenses include a $2.2 million charge recorded in connection with a non income tax matter. The 2005 expenses included approximately $7 million related to severance costs, the write off of capitalized software development and a liability for unpaid overtime due to certain employees. MKMV operating income was $16.6 million for 2006 compared with $3.3 million in 2005. Currency translation did not have a significant year to year impact on MKMV results. Reorganization and New Segments Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the implementation of the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including MKMV, sales of credit research produced by Moodys Investors Service and the production and sales of other products and services, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics (Analytics). The aforementioned reorganization will result in the Company operating in two new reportable segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, beginning in January 2008. The tables below present operating results for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as if the new segment structure described above had been in place as of January 1, 2005. Revenue for MIS and expenses for Analytics includes an intersegment royalty charged to Analytics for the rights to use and distribute content, data and products developed by MIS. Additionally, overhead costs and corporate expenses of the Company, all of which were previously included in the former MIS segment, are allocated to each new segment based on a revenue split methodology. Overhead expenses include costs such as rent and occupancy, information technology and support staff such as finance, human resource, information technology and legal. Eliminations represents intersegment royalty revenue/expense. December 31, 2007 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1835.4 $ 479.1 $ (55.5 ) $ 2,259.0 Operating expenses 759.4 331.2 (55.5 ) 1,035.1 Restructuring charge 41.3 8.7 50.0 Depreciation and amortization 24.0 18.9 42.9 Operating income $ 1,010.7 $ 120.3 $ $ 1,131.0 27 December 31, 2006 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Corporate items/Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,685.6 $ 397.3 $ (45.8 ) $ 2,037.1 Operating expenses 666.1 278.4 (45.8 ) 898.7 Depreciation and amortization 17.3 22.2 39.5 Gain on sale of building (160.6 ) (160.6 ) Operating income $ 1,002.2 $ 96.7 $ 160.6 $ 1,259.5 December 31, 2005 MoodysInvestorsService MoodysAnalytics Eliminations Consolidated Revenue $ 1,425.6 $ 346.7 $ (40.7 ) $ 1,731.6 Operating expenses 554.4 243.1 (40.7 ) 756.8 Depreciation and amortization 15.5 19.7 35.2 Operating income $ 855.7 $ 83.9 $ $ 939.6 The table below presents revenue by line of business within each new segment and the related intra segment realignment: Year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Moodys Investors Service: Structured Finance $ 885.9 $ 883.6 $ 708.7 Corporate Finance 411.5 335.9 277.4 Financial Institutions 261.7 222.1 214.0 Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance 220.8 198.2 184.8 Total third party revenue 1,779.9 1,639.8 1,384.9 Intersegment royalty 55.5 45.8 40.7 Total MIS $ 1,835.4 $ 1,685.6 $ 1,425.6 Moodys Analytics: Subscription 421.5 347.5 305.0 Consulting 18.1 13.5 8.1 Software 39.5 36.3 33.6 Total Analytics 479.1 397.3 346.7 Eliminations (55.5 ) (45.8 ) (40.7 ) Total Moodys Corporation $ 2,259.0 $ 2,037.1 $ 1,731.6 As part of the reorganization there were several realignments within the MIS lines of business. Sovereign and sub sovereign ratings which were previously part of financial institutions; infrastructure/utilities ratings, which were previously part of corporate finance; and project finance, which was previously part of structured finance, were combined with the Public Finance business to form a new line of business called Public, Project and Infrastructure Finance. In addition, real estate investment trust ratings were moved from corporate finance to the structured finance business. Within Moodys Analytics various aspects of the legacy MIS Research business and MKMV business were combined to form the subscriptions, software and consulting businesses. The subscriptions business includes credit and economic research, data and analytical models that are sold on a subscription basis; the software business includes license and maintenance fees for credit risk software products, and the consulting business includes professional services and credit training associated with risk modeling, credit scorecard development, and other specialized analytical projects, as well as credit education services that are typically sold on a per engagement basis. 28 The following is a discussion of the results of operations of the new segments, excluding the aforementioned intersegment royalty revenue and related expense, as if they were operating as of January 1, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2007 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2006 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2007 was $1,779.9 million, up $140.1 million, or 8.5%, from $1,639.8 million in 2006. Global corporate finance, financial institutions and the public, project and infrastructure finance business increased $75.6 million, $39.6 million, and $22.6 million, respectively. Global corporate finance revenue totaled $411.5 million in 2007, an increase of 22.5%, from $335.9 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $45.3 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased leveraged loan activities and growth in investment grade bond issuance. International revenue of $141.5 million increased $30.3 million, or 27.2%, largely driven by growth in European bond issuance. Global financial institutions revenue was $261.7 million, up $39.6 million or 17.8% from $222.1 million in 2006. Revenue in the U.S. increased $18.9 million, or 18.4%, principally due to strong performance within the banking and insurance sectors driven by debt refinancing and funding for share repurchases. International revenue of $139.7 million grew $20.7 million, or 17.4%, from prior year mainly due to increased corporate bond issuance activity and a significant number of new ratings mandates both within the European banking sector. Global structured finance revenue was $885.9 million for 2007, an increase of $2.3 million from $883.6 million in 2006. Revenue of $569.6 million in the U.S., decreased $35.5 million, or 5.9%, in a mixed year where strong growth in the first half of 2007, largely from the credit derivatives and commercial real estate finance sectors, which includes real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, which were offset in the second half of 2007 by declining revenue in the residential mortgage backed securities, derivatives and commercial real estate finance as a result of credit market turmoil which reduced ratable issuance volume. Outside the U.S., revenue of $316.3 million increased $37.7 million, or 13.6%, reflecting strong growth from derivatives and residential mortgage backed securities of $19.8 million and $12.3 million, mostly in the European region. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $220.8 million, an increase of $22.6 million, or 11.4%, from $198.2 million in 2006. Revenue from project and infrastructure finance of $76.1 million showed the strongest growth with an increase of $13.5 million or 21.6% over 2006, mostly from within the U.S. Revenue of $144.7 million from the public finance sector, including U.S. public finance, sovereign and sub sovereign, increased $9.1 million, or 6.7%, over prior year driven by growth in combined issuance and new money issuance. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses and a $41.3 million restructuring charge in 2007, were $800.7 million, an increase of $134.6 million, or 20.2%, from $666.1 million in 2006. Compensation and benefits expense was the largest contributor to the year over year growth reflecting increased staffing internationally to support business growth, as well as additional headcount in the corporate compliance group. Stock based compensation expense increased year over year primarily due to the higher Black Scholes value of the 2007 equity grants compared to prior years. Non compensation expenses in 2007 included an increase in allocated expenses such as increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $955.2 million in 2007 was flat compared to 2006. Excluding the $41.3 million restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $996.5 million increased $40.1 million, or 4.2%, from $956.4 million in 2006. Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $479.1 million, an increase of $81.8 million, or 20.6%, from 2006. U.S. revenue of $242.8 million increased $38.1 million, or 18.6%, and international revenue increased $43.7 million, or 22.7%, with 90.3% of the growth from Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $421.5 million was up $74.0 million, or 21.3%, over $347.5 million in 2006, reflecting continued demand from new and existing customers for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics 29 and other offerings. Software revenue of $39.5 million increased $3.2 million, or 8.8%, from $36.3 million in 2006 primarily from additional license and maintenance fees for credit decisioning and analysis products. Revenue from consulting services grew $4.6 million, or 34.1%, due to increased demand for credit education, risk modeling and scorecard development among customers seeking to implement sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. Operating expenses in 2007 including allocated corporate expenses and the $8.7 million restructuring charge, were $284.4 million, an increase of $51.8 million, or 22.3%, from $232.6 million in 2006. The increase is a result of additional compensation due to headcount growth of 8% and higher sales commission expense resulting from better than expected revenue growth over 2006. It also reflects an increase in allocated expenses due to increased rent and occupancy costs related to the Companys relocation to its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and increases in professional service costs primarily due to information technology investment spending and legal matters. Moodys Analytics operating income of $175.8 million in 2007 increased $33.3 million, or 23.4%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Operating income included an $8.7 million restructuring charge in 2007. Excluding the restructuring charge, 2007 operating income of $184.5 million increased $42.0 million, or 29.5%, from $142.5 million in 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2006 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2005 Moodys Investors Service Revenue at Moodys Investors Service in 2006 was $1,639.8 million, up $254.9 million or 18.4% from $1,384.9 million in 2005 with global structured and corporate finance accounting for $233.4 million, or 91.6%, of the growth. Structured finance revenue was $883.6 million in 2006, an increase of $174.9 million or 24.7% from $708.7 million in the same period of 2005. Revenue in the U.S. of $605.0 million increased $111.4 million, or 22.6%, with commercial real estate finance, consisting of real estate investment trusts, commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations and commercial mortgage backed securities, and credit derivatives contributing $22.2 million and $85.6 million of the increase, respectively. International structured finance revenue grew $63.4 million year over year, with Europe contributing about $58 million, where credit derivatives, commercial real estate finance and residential mortgage backed sectors totaled 91.7% of the European growth. Corporate finance revenue was $335.9 million in 2006, up $58.5 million or 21.1% from $277.4 million in 2005. Revenue in the U.S. increased 22.3% principally due to issuance related growth in bank loan and corporate bond ratings revenue. International revenue of $111.2 million increased $17.5 million, or 18.7%, due largely to increased corporate bond issuance and non issuance related ratings fees in Europe. Financial institutions revenue was $222.1 million in 2006, an increase of $8.1 million or 3.8% from $214.0 million in 2005. In the U.S., revenue of $103.0 million grew $8.2 million, or 8.6%, principally due to strength in the insurance sector. Internationally, revenue was relatively flat compared to 2006 with decreases in Europe being offset by increases in Asia and other international locations. Public, project and infrastructure finance revenue was $198.2 million in 2006, an increase of $13.4 million or 7.3% from $184.8 million in 2005, reflecting good growth in the project and infrastructure sectors internationally. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $666.1 million in 2006, an increase of $111.7 million, or 20.1%, from $554.4 million in 2005. The increase is due to incentive compensation reflecting improved financial results over prior year, additional salaries and benefits expense relating to higher global staffing to support the business growth. Non compensation expense increased over 2006 reflecting additional travel, training and recruiting, as well as an increase in professional service fees associated with technology investment spending. Moodys Investors Service operating income of $956.4 million in 2006 was up $141.4 million, or 17.3%, from $815.0 million in 2005 mostly driven by the growth in revenue. 30 Moodys Analytics Revenue for Moodys Analytics was $397.3 million, an increase of $50.6 million, or 14.6%, from $346.7 million in 2005. U.S. revenue of $204.7 million increased $33.1 million, or 19.3%, and international revenue increased $17.6 million, or 10.1%, with 63.1% reflecting growth in Europe. Revenue from subscription products of $347.5 million was up $42.5 million, or 13.9%, over $305.0 million in 2005, benefiting from higher sales of core research and data services coupled with new customer growth and lower attrition. Software revenue of $36.3 million increased $2.7 million, or 8.0%, from $33.6 million in 2005 reflecting greater demand for risk products and credit decision making software and related maintenance services. Revenue from consulting services was $13.5 million, an increase of $5.4 million, or 66.7%, from $8.1 million in 2005 reflecting an increase in the risk management needs of customers and the completion of contractual milestones. Operating expenses, including allocated corporate expenses, were $232.6 million in 2006, an increase of $30.2 million, or 14.9%, from $202.4 million in 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits relating to sales commissions from higher revenue coupled with additional staffing over 2005. The increase also reflects additional training and recruitment, sales and marketing expenses to support business growth, as well as a $2.2 million charge in 2006 relating to a non income tax related matter. Market Risk Moodys maintains operations in 27 countries outside the United States. Approximately 33% of the Companys revenue was billed in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. Approximately 42% of the Companys expenses were incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar in 2007, principally the British pound and the euro. As such, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign exchange rates. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 35% of Moodys assets were located outside the U.S. Of Moodys aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $426.3 million at December 31, 2007, approximately $348 million was located outside the United States (with $104 million and $88 million in Luxembourg and the U.K., respectively), making the Company susceptible to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Additionally, all of Moodys aggregate short term investments of $14.7 million were located outside the United States. The effects of changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar on assets and liabilities of non U.S. operations with non U.S. functional currencies are charged or credited to the cumulative translation adjustment account in shareholders equity. Moodys cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality investment grade securities within and outside the United States. The Company manages its credit risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market mutual funds and issuers of high grade commercial paper. Short term investments primarily consist of high quality investment grade corporate bonds in Korea. The Company manages its credit risk exposure on cash equivalents and short term investments by limiting the amount it can invest with any single issuer. A portion of the Companys future billings and related revenue is exposed to market risk associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates primarily related to the euros and British pound. Under the Companys current foreign exchange hedging program, the Company hedges a portion of foreign exchange currency risk for the purpose of reducing volatility in the Companys cash flows related to future euro and British pound billings and related revenue. Foreign exchange options are currently utilized to hedge these exposures and have maturities between one and fifteen months. As of December 2007 all contracts were set to expire at various times through March 2009 and were deemed to be highly effective under SFAS No. 133 and related accounting pronouncements. No credit losses are anticipated as the counterparties to these agreements are major financial institutions. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Companys outstanding options was recorded as an asset of $2.3 million consisting of the following notional amounts: Currency Pair of Option* Notional amount * GBP/USD &pound; 7.9 million EUR/USD 16.7 million EUR/GBP 61.5 million * GBP(&pound;) Great Britain pounds; EUR() euros; USD($) U.S. dollars 31 Unrealized gains or losses will be recorded in other comprehensive income and, once realized, the gains or losses will be recognized as an adjustment to revenue when the billings are recognized in revenue. A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to estimate the exposure to fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates on Moodys foreign exchange options. A hypothetical 10% favorable change in the overall option currency portfolio would result in a gain of approximately $10 million as of December 31, 2007. The maximum loss related to an adverse change in the option currency portfolio would be $2.3 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow The Company is currently financing its operations, capital expenditures and share repurchases through cash flow from operations and from financing activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $984.0 million, $752.5 million and $707.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. The Company borrowed $847.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 increased by $231.5 million compared with 2006. A decrease in net income of $52.4 million reduced cash provided by operating activities. The increase in stock based compensation expense positively impacted cash flow from operations by $13.1 million compared to net income. Accounts receivable decreased approximately 7% in the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with an increase of approximately 13% for the year ended December 31, 2006 increasing cash flow from operations by $79.1 million compared to 2006. The impact on cash flows of excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans decreased to $52.2 million from $103.2 million in 2006 due to fewer stock option exercises in 2007 compared with 2006. The favorable non cash resolution of a legacy tax matter in the second quarter of 2007 negatively impacted operating cash flow by $52.3 million compared to net income. Operating cash flow in 2006 included a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys former headquarters building. The $67.2 million reduction in cash flows from changes in other current assets is primarily due to the receipt of approximately $16 million from New D&B related to issuer based stock compensation tax deductions in 2006 and an approximate $40 million overpayment of 2007 state income taxes offset by an $8.5 million increase related to a receivable from the IRS for a legacy tax matter classified as a current asset in 2007. Furthermore, the $55.5 million change in cash flows associated with other assets is primarily due to a deposit made in the first quarter of 2006 of approximately $40 million with the IRS relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Operating cash flow decreased by $87.5 million due to reductions in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. This is primarily due to a decrease in net accrued income taxes of approximately $76.5 million, decreases in accrued incentive compensation of approximately $27 million and decreases in accounts payable of approximately $17 million, due to timing of payments offset by approximately $33 million in restructuring liabilities. Increases in FIN No. 48 and other non current tax and related liabilities increased cash flow from operations by approximately $83 million. Additionally, increases in the deferred rent liability contributed approximately $47 million to cash flow from operations relating primarily to the free rent period and tenant allowance on the 7WTC lease. Moodys net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 increased by $44.6 million compared with 2005. Growth in net income contributed $193.1 million to cash provided by operating activities. The 2006 cash flows include a decrease relating to excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans of $103.2 million that are now classified as a cash flow from financing activities as required under SFAS No. 123R. Prior to the implementation of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006, excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation was presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an operating cash flow, along with other tax cash flows. The operating cash flow includes a decrease of $160.6 million from the gain on sale of the Companys headquarters building. The cash proceeds are reported as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows. The change in accounts receivable is attributable to increases in revenue offset by improved collection. Additionally, Moodys deposited approximately $40 million with the IRS in the first quarter of 2006 relating to Amortization Expense Deductions, as discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. This deposit was recorded in other assets. Tax payments increased by $53 million in 2006 versus 2005 offset by increases in income taxes payable due to growth in pre tax net income. An increase in deferred revenue increased cash flow from operations by $28 million which is due to increased volume in annual and initial fees in both the ratings and research businesses. Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities was ($124.7) million, $116.1 million and ($150.4) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Net maturities (investments) in short term investments, net of purchases, totaled $61.5 million, $22.5 million and ($88.9) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Capital expenditures, primarily for leasehold improvements and internal use software, totaled $181.8 million, $31.1 million and $31.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 increase relates primarily to the build out of the Companys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. The 2006 spending on acquisitions 32 was $39.2 million, which related primarily to the purchase of a 49% share in China Cheng Xin International Credit Rating Co. Ltd and the acquisition of Wall Street Analytics, Inc., net of cash acquired. The 2005 spending on acquisitions primarily related to the acquisition of Economy.com, net of cash acquired, and a contingent payment made in the second quarter of 2005 related to Korea Investors Service. The net proceeds received from the sale of the Companys former Corporate headquarters building in the fourth quarter of 2006 were $163.9 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $861.5 million, $965.2 million and $666.5 million for years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company borrowed $547.4 million under its commercial paper program in 2007 to support share repurchases, build out of the new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. Additionally, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction $300.0 million aggregate principal Series 2007 1 Notes in the third quarter of 2007. Spending for share repurchases totaled $1,738.4 million, $1,093.6 million and $691.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Dividends paid were $85.2 million, $79.5 million and $60.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in dividends reflects a quarterly dividend paid of $0.08 per share 2007 versus a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in 2006 and $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in the subsequent quarters per share in 2005. These amounts were offset in part by proceeds from employee stock based compensation plans of $65.9 million, $105.3 million and $89.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Excess tax benefits from stock based compensation plans were $52.2 million and $103.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decreases in proceeds from stock plans and the excess tax benefits relating to stock based compensation plans is due primarily to a decrease in stock option exercise activity in 2007 compared to the same period in 2006. Future Cash Requirements The Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its cash requirements for the next twelve months and expects to have positive operating cash flow for fiscal year 2008. Cash requirements for periods beyond the next twelve months will depend, among other things, on the Companys profitability and its ability to manage working capital requirements. The Company currently expects to use a significant portion of its cash flow to continue its share repurchase program. The Company implemented a systematic share repurchase program in the third quarter of 2005 through an SEC Rule 10b5 1 program. Moodys may also purchase opportunistically when conditions warrant. The Companys intent is to return capital to shareholders in a way that serves their long term interests. As a result, Moodys share repurchase activity will continue to vary from quarter to quarter. The Company may borrow from various sources to fund share repurchases. On June 5, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion share repurchase program of which Moodys has approximately $24 million remaining at December 31, 2007. On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized an additional $2.0 billion share repurchase program that the Company will begin utilizing upon completion of the 2006 authority. There is no established expiration date for either of these authorizations. At December 31,2007 the Company had $551.9 million, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million, of outstanding commercial paper and issued $300.0 million of 6.06% Series 2007 1 Notes, as described in the Indebtedness section below, to support share repurchases, the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC and other operational activities. The Company entered into an operating lease agreement (the Lease) commencing on October 20, 2006 with 7 World Trade Center, LLC for 589,945 square feet of an office building located at 7WTC at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, which is serving as Moodys new headquarters. The Lease has an initial term of approximately 21 years with a total of 20 years of renewal options. The total base rent of the lease over its initial 21 year term is approximately $536 million including rent credits from the World Trade Center Rent Reduction Program promulgated by the Empire State Development Corporation. On March 28, 2007, the lease agreement was amended for the Company to lease an additional 78,568 square feet at 7WTC. The additional base rent is approximately $106 million over a 20 year term. The Company plans to incur approximately $21 million of costs to complete the build out its new corporate headquarters at 7WTC over the next year. On October 24, 2007, the Company announced a restructuring plan that would reduce global headcount, terminate certain technology contracts and consolidate certain corporate functions in response to the Companys reorganization announced on August 7, 2007 and a decline in current and anticipated issuance of rated debt securities in some market sectors. Included in the $50.0 million restructuring charge is $7.0 million of non cash settlements relating to pension curtailments and stock based compensation award modifications for certain terminated employees. During 2007, the Company made cash payments of $1.8 million relating to the $43.0 million cash component of the restructuring liability and expects cash outlays of approximately $31 million and $2 million during 2008 and 2009, respectively. The remaining liability of $8.1 million relates to annuity payments that will be made in connection with the Companys 33 pension and other post retirement benefit plans for certain terminated employees, which will commence when the employees reach retirement age beginning in 2009 and continue until all payments have been made. The Company also intends to use a portion of its cash flow to pay dividends. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at this rate, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company will from time to time consider cash outlays for acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses, products, services and technologies. The Company may also be required to make future cash outlays to pay to New D&B its share of potential liabilities related to the legacy tax and legal contingencies that are discussed in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Contingencies. These potential cash outlays could be material and might affect liquidity requirements, and they could cause the Company to pursue additional financing. There can be no assurance that financing to meet cash requirements will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. Indebtedness The following table summarizes total indebtedness as of December 31: 2007 2006 Notes payable: Senior notes, due 2015, 4.98% $ 300.0 $ 300.0 Senior notes, due 2017, 6.06% 300.0 Commercial paper, net of unamortized discount of $0.7 million 551.9 Total 1,151.9 300.0 Less: current portion (551.9 ) Total long term debt $ 600.0 $ 300.0 Notes Payable On September 7, 2007, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.06% Series 2007 1 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017 (Series 2007 1 Notes) pursuant to a Note Purchase Agreement (2007 Agreement). The Series 2007 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 6.06%, payable semi annually on March 7 and September 7 of each year. Under the terms of the 2007 Agreement, the Company may, from time to time within five years, in its sole discretion, issue additional series of senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million pursuant to one or more supplements to the 2007 Agreement. The Company may prepay the Series 2007 1 Notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a prepayment premium based on the excess, if any, of the discounted value of the remaining scheduled payments, over the prepaid principal (Make Whole Amount). The 2007 Agreement contains covenants that limit the ability of the Company, and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: enter into transactions with affiliates, dispose of assets, incur or create liens, enter into any sale leaseback transactions, or merge with any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets. The Company must also not permit its total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio to exceed 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. On September 30, 2005, the Company entered into a Note Purchase Agreement (2005 Agreement) and issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Series 2005 1 Senior Unsecured Notes (Series 2005 1 Notes). The Series 2005 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.98%, payable semi annually on March 30 and September 30. The proceeds from the sale of the Series 2005 1 Notes were used to refinance $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding 7.61% Senior Notes which matured on September 30, 2005. In the event that Moodys pays all, or part, of the Series 2005 1 Notes in advance of their maturity (the Prepaid Principal), such prepayment will be subject to a penalty based on the Make Whole Amount. The Series 2005 1 Notes are subject to certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreements. 34 Commercial Paper On October 3, 2007, the Company entered into a commercial paper program (the Program) on a private placement basis under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes (the CP Notes) up to a maximum amount outstanding at any time of $1.0 billion. Amounts available under the Program may be re borrowed. The Program is supported by the Companys 2007 Facility (see Credit Facilities section below), if at any time funds are not available on favorable terms under the Program. The maturities of the CP Notes will vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The CP Notes will be sold at a discount from par or, alternatively, will be sold at par and bear interest at rates that will vary based upon market conditions at the time of the issuance. The rates of interest will depend on whether the CP Notes will be a fixed or floating rate. The interest on a floating rate may be based on the following: (a) certificate of deposit rate; (b) commercial paper rate; (c) the federal funds rate; (d) the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR); (e) prime rate; (f) treasury rate; or (g) such other base rate as may be specified in a supplement. The Program contains certain events of default including, among other things: non payment of principal, interest or fees; violation of covenants; invalidity of any loan document; material judgments; and bankruptcy and insolvency events, subject in certain instances to cure periods. Credit Facilities On September 28, 2007, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion five year senior, unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2007 Facility), expiring in September 2012, which replaces both the $500.0 million Interim Facility, which was set to expire in February 2008 as well as the $500.0 million five year revolving credit facility entered into on September 1, 2004 and scheduled to expire in September 2009. The 2007 Facility will serve, in part, to support the commercial paper program discussed above. Interest on borrowings is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 16.0 to 40.0 basis points of the facility amount depending on the Companys ratio of total indebtedness to EBITDA (Earnings Coverage Ratio). The Company also pays quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the 2007 Facility. The quarterly fees for the 2007 Facility can range from 4.0 to 10.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also pays a utilization fee of 5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeds 50% of the total facility. The 2007 Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreement. The 2007 Facility also contains financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain an Earnings Coverage Ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the 2007 Facility. On August 8, 2007, the Company entered into an interim loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million that was to expire on February 8, 2008 (the Interim Facility). Interest on borrowings was payable at rates that were based on LIBOR plus a premium that could range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points of the Interim Facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the Interim Facility. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the Interim Facility and repaid the $100.0 million outstanding balance. On September 1, 2004, Moodys entered into a five year senior, unsecured bank revolving credit facility (the 2004 Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $160.0 million that was scheduled to expire in September 2009. Interest on the borrowings under the 2004 Facility was payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 17.0 to 47.5 basis points depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio, as defined in the related agreement. The Company also paid quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity. The quarterly fees ranged from 8.0 to 15.0 basis points of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Earnings Coverage Ratio. The Company also paid a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeded 50% of the total facility. In October 2006, Moodys amended the 2004 Facility by increasing the limit on sale proceeds resulting from a sale leaseback transaction of its former corporate headquarters building from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. Additionally, the restriction on liens to secure indebtedness related to the building sale was also increased from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. The Company also increased the expansion feature of the 2004 Facility from $80.0 million to $340.0 million, subject to obtaining commitments for the incremental capacity at the time of draw down from the existing lenders. In April 2007, after receipt of all necessary approvals relating to the execution of the expansion feature, borrowing capacity under the 2004 Facility was increased to $500.0 million. On September 28, 2007, the closing date of the 2007 Facility, the Company terminated the 2004 Facility and repaid the $400.0 million outstanding balance. At December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all covenants contained within the note agreements and the 2007 Facility described above. 35 Interest (expense) income, net Interest (expense) income, net consists of: December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Income $ 19.3 $ 18.2 $ 26.0 Expense on borrowings (40.7 ) (15.2 ) (21.0 ) Expense on FIN No. 48 tax liabilities (21.5 ) Reversal of interest (a) 17.5 Capitalized 1.1 Interest (expense) income, net $ (24.3 ) $ 3.0 $ 5.0 (a) Represents a reversal of accrued interest related to the favorable resolution of a legacy tax matter, as further discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Interest paid on all borrowings was $32.5 million, $14.9 million and $22.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Management may consider pursuing additional long term financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for operations, share repurchase and other strategic opportunities, which would result in higher financing costs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Moodys did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities where Moodys is the primary beneficiary, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, Moodys is not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if it had engaged in such relationships. Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due under the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less Than 1Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Over 5Years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 1,071.1 $ 72.6 $ 113.7 $ 105.3 $ 779.5 Notes payable (2) 910.6 33.2 66.2 66.2 745.0 Purchase obligations (3) 39.0 30.1 7.9 1.0 Borrowings under commercial paper program (4) 552.6 552.6 Capital lease obligations 4.5 1.7 2.8 Other (5) 59.9 2.6 12.1 9.2 36.0 Total (6) $ 2,637.7 $ 692.8 $ 202.7 $ 181.7 $ 1,560.5 (1) Includes rent payments relating to the 165,000 square foot, 17.5 year operating lease agreement entered into on February 6, 2008 to occupy six floors of an office tower in the Canary Wharf section of London, England. The Company will begin making rent payments in March 2011. (2) Includes $9.3 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2007 and $301.3 million of interest that will accrue and be due from January 1, 2008 through September 30, 2015 and 2017, when the Series 2005 1 Notes and the Series 2007 1 Notes mature, respectively. (3) Purchase obligations include approximately $21 million, excluding approximately $0.8 million of accrued liabilities, related to the build out of Moodys new corporate headquarters at 7WTC. Purchase obligations also include contracts for professional services, data processing and telecommunication services, and data back up facilities. (4) Includes $1.3 million of interest related to CP Notes outstanding under its commercial paper program at December 31, 2007 that will be due and paid at various times through December 31, 2008. As of February 27, 2008, the Company had approximately $746 million of CP Notes outstanding under the Program. See Indebtedness for further information. 36 (5) Includes $59.9 million of projected benefit payments relating to the Companys unfunded Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefit Plans described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. (6) The table above does not include the Companys net long term tax liabilities of $118.3 million, since the expected cash outflow of such amounts by period cannot be reasonably estimated. 2008 Outlook Beginning in January 2008, Moodys segments were changed to reflect the business reorganization announced in August 2007. As a result of the reorganization, the rating agency remains in the Moodys Investors Service (MIS) operating company and several ratings business lines have been realigned. All of Moodys other commercial activities, including Moodys KMV and sales of MIS research, are now combined under a new operating company known as Moodys Analytics. Moodys new initiatives in fixed income pricing and valuations will also be captured within Moodys Analytics. Moodys outlook for 2008 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors, including interest rates, corporate profitability and business investment spending, merger and acquisition activity, consumer spending, residential mortgage borrowing and refinancing activity, securitization levels and capital markets issuance. There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and, if actual conditions differ from these assumptions, Moodys results for the year may differ from our current outlook. For Moodys overall, full year 2008 revenue is expected to decline in the low double digit percent range. This decline assumes foreign currency translation in 2008 at current exchange rates. The Company anticipates a weak first half of 2008 with improvement in market liquidity and issuance conditions later in the year. Under this scenario, Moodys first half 2008 performance is likely to reflect unusually weak market conditions, as well as challenging year on year comparisons against the first half of 2007 when the Company delivered record performance. The Company expects the full year 2008 operating margin to decline to the mid to high forties percent range, due primarily to lower ratings revenue. Full year expenses are expected to decrease approximately 5%, primarily due to the 2007 restructuring charge of $50.0 million, as well as expense savings from the restructuring actions, partially offset by investments in the growth areas of our business. Earnings per share for 2008 are projected in a range from $2.17 to $2.25, which reflects the estimated impact of share buy backs under the Companys share repurchase program. For the global Moodys Investors Service business, the Company expects revenue for the full year 2008 to decline in the mid to high teens percent range. Within the U.S., the Company projects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the mid twenties percent range for the full year 2008. In the U.S. structured finance business, Moodys expects revenue for the year to decline in the low to mid forties percent range, reflecting double digit percent declines in most asset classes, led by residential mortgage backed securities and credit derivatives ratings. In the U.S. corporate finance business, the Company expects revenue to decrease in the low teens percent range for the year driven by declines across all asset classes. In both the U.S. financial institutions and public, project and infrastructure finance sectors, Moodys projects revenue in 2008 to grow in the low single digit percent range. Outside the U.S. the Company expects Moodys Investors Service revenue to decrease in the low single digit percent range. Good growth from rating financial institutions; public, project and infrastructure finance; and corporate securities is expected to be more than offset by a decline in structured finance ratings revenue, primarily in Europe. For Moodys Analytics, the Company expects revenue growth in the mid teens percent range. In the U.S., growth is projected to be in the low teens percent range while outside the U.S., revenue is expected to increase in the high teens percent range. Growth in the subscription businesses is expected in the mid teens range, reflecting continued demand for credit and economic research, structured finance analytics, and the impact of our newly formed pricing and valuation business. In the consulting business, Moodys anticipates very strong growth, reflecting a robust pipeline of professional services engagements and credit training projects. There is considerable demand for Moodys expertise in credit education, risk modeling, and scorecard development as customers implement more sophisticated risk management processes and comply with regulatory requirements. In the software business, the Company expects revenue to be flat versus 2007, as customers begin to migrate to new generation software platforms. 37 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157). SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value, and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is expected to increase the consistency of fair value measurements and applies only to those measurements that are already required or permitted to be measured at fair value by other accounting standards. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 2 (FSP FAS 157 2), which partially defers the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, until fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company has implemented the deferral provisions of FSP FAS 157 2 and as a result has partially implemented the provisions of SFAS No. 157 as of January 1, 2008. The partial implementation of SFAS 157 does not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations and the Company will apply, as of January 1, 2009, the provisions of SFAS No, 157 to its non financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination and not subsequently remeasured at fair value, non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value for a goodwill impairment assessment, nonfinancial long lived assets measured at fair value for an asset impairment assessment, and asset retirement obligations initially measured at fair value. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards which require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on an instrument by instrument basis with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each reporting period. Items eligible for fair value election include recognized financial assets and liabilities such as equity method investments and investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values, written loan commitments, and certain warranties and insurance contracts where a warrantor or insurer is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, the election must be applied to individual instruments with certain restrictions, is irrevocable and must be applied to an entire instrument. Any upfront costs and fees related to the item elected for fair value must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred. At the implementation date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the implementation of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2008. The Company is currently determining the impact, if any, that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (SFAS No.141R). SFAS No. 141R extends its applicability to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses and establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non controlling interest in the acquiree, and the goodwill acquired. SFAS 141R also expands disclosure requirements to improve the statement users abilities to evaluate the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS No. 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of implementing SFAS No. 141R will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (SFAS No.160). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parents ownership interest and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS No. 160 also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners and requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be reported as equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and is required to be implemented by the Company as of January 1, 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of implementing SFAS No. 160 will have on its consolidated financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Contingencies From time to time, Moodys is involved in legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation that are incidental to the Companys business, including claims based on ratings assigned by Moodys. Moodys is also subject to ongoing tax audits in the normal course of business. Management periodically assesses the Companys liabilities and contingencies based upon the latest information available. 38 Moodys discloses material pending legal proceedings, other than routine litigation incidental to Moodys business, material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities and other pending matters that it may determine to be appropriate. For matters, except those related to income taxes, where it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company has recorded liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and periodically adjusts these as appropriate. When sufficient uncertainties exist, related to the outcome and or the amount or range of loss, management does not record a liability but discloses the contingency if significant. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such liabilities accordingly. For income tax matters, the Company employs the prescribed methodology of FIN No. 48, implemented as of January 1, 2007. FIN No. 48 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained, based on its technical merits, as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and governmental authorities and is cooperating with those inquiries. Based on its review of the latest information available, and subject to the contingencies described below, in the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of the Company in connection with pending legal and tax proceedings, claims and litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, although it is possible that the effect could be material to the Companys consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period. Legacy Contingencies Moodys continues to have exposure to certain potential liabilities assumed in connection with the 2000 Distribution (Legacy Contingencies). The following description of the relationships among Moodys, New D&B and their predecessor entities is important in understanding the Legacy Contingencies that relate to tax matters (Legacy Tax Matters). In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, ACNielsen Corporation and Cognizant Corporation (Cognizant). In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into two separate public companies: Old D&B and R.H. Donnelley Corporation. During 1998, Cognizant separated into two separate public companies: IMS Health Incorporated (IMS Health) and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. (NMR). In September 2000, Old D&B separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moodys, as further described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in the normal course of business, including through tax free restructurings of both their foreign and domestic operations. These initiatives are subject to normal review by tax authorities. Old D&B and its predecessors also entered into a series of agreements covering the sharing of any liabilities for payment of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from unfavorable IRS rulings on certain tax matters, and certain other potential tax liabilities, all as described in such agreements. Further, in connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moodys have agreed on the financial responsibility for any potential liabilities related to Legacy Tax Matters. Settlement agreements were executed with the IRS in 2005 regarding Legacy Tax Matters for the years 1989 1990 and 1993 1996. As of December 31, 2007, the Company continues to carry a liability of $1.8 million with respect to these matters. With respect to these settlement agreements, Moodys and New D&B believe that IMS Health and NMR did not pay their full share of the liability to the IRS pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements among the parties. Moodys and New D&B paid these amounts to the IRS on their behalf, and have been unable to resolve this dispute with IMS Health and NMR. As a result, Moodys and New D&B have commenced arbitration proceedings against IMS Health and NMR to collect a total of approximately $11 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1989 1990 matter. Moodys and New D&B may also commence an arbitration proceeding to collect a total of $14.5 million owed by IMS Health and NMR with respect to the 1993 1996 matter. Moodys cannot predict the outcome of these matters with any certainty. Amortization Expense Deductions and 1997 2002 IRS Deficiency Notices (the Notices) This legacy tax matter, which was affected by developments in June 2007 as further described below, involves a partnership transaction which resulted in amortization expense deductions on the tax returns of Old D&B since 1997. IRS audits of Old D&Bs and New D&Bs tax returns for the years 1997 through 2002 concluded in June 2007 without any disallowance of the amortization expense deductions, or any other adjustments to income related to this partnership 39 transaction. These audits did result in the IRS issuing the Notices for other tax issues for the 1997 2000 years aggregating $9.5 million in tax and penalties, plus statutory interest of approximately $7 million, which will be apportioned among Moodys, New D&B, IMS Health and NMR pursuant to the terms of the applicable separation agreements. Moodys share of this assessment is anticipated to be $7.2 million including interest, net of tax. In November 2007, the IRS assessed the tax and penalties and used a portion of the deposit discussed below to satisfy the assessment, together with interest. The Company believes it has meritorious grounds to challenge the IRSs actions and is evaluating its alternatives for further actions to recover these amounts The absence of any tax deficiencies in the Notices for the amortization expense deductions for the years 1997 through 2000 and in companion Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002, combined with the expiration of the statute of limitations for 1997 through 2002, for issues not assessed, resulted in Moodys recording an earnings benefit of $52.3 million in its second quarter. This is comprised of two components, as follows: (i) a reversal of a tax liability of $27.3 million related to the period from 1997 through the Distribution Date, reducing the provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007; and (ii) a reduction of accrued interest expense of $17.5 million ($10.6 million, net of tax) and an increase in other non operating income of $14.4 million, relating to amounts due to New D&B, for the year ended December 31, 2007. On the Distribution Date in 2000, New D&B paid Moodys $55.0 million for 50% of certain anticipated future tax benefits of New D&B through 2012. It is possible that IRS audits of New D&B for tax years after 2002 could result in income adjustments with respect to the amortization expense deductions of this partnership transaction. In the event these tax benefits are not claimed or otherwise not realized by New D&B, or there is an audit adjustment, Moodys would be required, pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, to repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted value of its share of the related future tax benefits and its share of any tax liability that New D&B incurs . As of December 31, 2007, Moodys liability with respect to this matter totaled $52.8 million. In March 2006, New D&B and Moodys each deposited $39.8 million with the IRS in order to stop the accrual of statutory interest on potential tax deficiencies with respect to the 1997 through 2002 tax years. In July 2007, New D&B and Moodys commenced procedures to recover approximately $56 million of these deposits ($24.4 million for New D&B and $31.6 million for Moodys), which represents the excess of the original deposits over the total of the deficiencies asserted in the Notices and in companion Statutory Notices of Deficiency issued to New D&B for 2001 and 2002. As noted above, in November 2007 the IRS used $7.9 million of Moodys portion of the deposit to satisfy an assessment and related interest. Additionally, in January 2008 the IRS paid Moodys $8.5 million in connection with this matter. At December 31, 2007, Moodys has recorded liabilities for Legacy Tax Matters totaling $56.7 million. This includes liabilities and accrued interest due to New D&B arising from the 2000 Distribution Agreement. It is possible that the ultimate liability for Legacy Tax Matters could be greater than the liabilities recorded by the Company, which could result in additional charges that may be material to Moodys future reported results, financial position and cash flows. Dividends During 2007, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.32 during the year. During 2006, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share in each of the quarters of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.28 during the year. During 2005, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.0375 in the first quarter and $0.055 in each of the three subsequent quarters, per share of Moodys common stock, resulting in dividends paid per share of $0.2025 during the year. On December 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the declaration of a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2008. The continued payment of dividends at the rate noted above, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 40 Common Stock Information The Companys common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol MCO. The table below indicates the high and low sales price of the Companys common stock and the dividends declared for the periods shown. The number of registered shareholders of record at January 31, 2008 was 3,522. Price Per Share DividendsDeclaredPer Share High Low 2006: First quarter $ 71.95 $ 61.09 $ 0.07 Second quarter 73.29 49.77 0.07 Third quarter 65.84 49.76 0.07 Fourth quarter 71.70 60.60 0.08 Year ended December 31, 2006 $ 0.29 2007: First quarter $ 76.09 $ 58.65 $ 0.08 Second quarter 73.69 60.60 0.08 Third quarter 63.70 42.42 0.08 Fourth quarter 55.99 35.05 0.10 Year ended December 31, 2007 $ 0.34 Forward Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and prospects for the Companys business and operations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. Those statements appear at various places throughout this annual report on Form 10 K, including in the sections entitled Outlook and Contingencies under Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, commencing on page 17 of this annual report on Form 10 K, under Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10 K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, will, predict, potential, continue, strategy, aspire, target, forecast, project, estimate, should, could, may and similar expressions or words and variations thereof relating to the Companys views on future events, trends and contingencies. Stockholders and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. The forward looking statements and other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10 K, and the Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly supplement, update or revise such statements on a going forward basis, whether as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying examples of factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated by these forward looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, matters that could affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and or global capital markets, including credit quality concerns, changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets; concerns in the marketplace affecting our credibility or otherwise affecting market perceptions of the integrity or utility of independent agency ratings; increased pricing pressure from competitors and or customers; the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; the impact of regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and the potential for new U.S., state and local legislation and regulations; the potential for increased competition and regulation in foreign jurisdictions; exposure to litigation related to our rating opinions, as well as any other litigation to which the Company may be subject from time to time; the possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures; failures or malfunctions of our operations and infrastructure; the outcome of any review by controlling tax authorities of the Companys global tax planning initiatives; the outcome of those legacy tax and legal contingencies that relate to the Company, its predecessors and their affiliated companies for which Moodys has assumed portions of the financial responsibility; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by financial institutions. These factors, risks and uncertainties as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause Moodys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements are described in greater detail under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10 K, elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other filings made by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated herein or therein. Stockholders and investors 41 are cautioned that the occurrence of any of these factors, risks and uncertainties may cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. New factors may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict new factors, nor can the Company assess the potential effect of any new factors on it. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption Market Risk in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K. 42 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, commencing on page 17 of this annual report on Form 10 K, under Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10 K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, will, predict, potential, continue, strategy, aspire, target, forecast, project, estimate, should, could, may and similar expressions or words and variations thereof relating to the Companys views on future events, trends and contingencies. Stockholders and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. The forward looking statements and other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10 K, and the Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly supplement, update or revise such statements on a going forward basis, whether as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying examples of factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated by these forward looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, matters that could affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and or global capital markets, including credit quality concerns, changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets; concerns in the marketplace affecting our credibility or otherwise affecting market perceptions of the integrity or utility of independent agency ratings; increased pricing pressure from competitors and or customers; the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; the impact of regulation as a nationally recognized statistical rating organization and the potential for new U.S., state and local legislation and regulations; the potential for increased competition and regulation in foreign jurisdictions; exposure to litigation related to our rating opinions, as well as any other litigation to which the Company may be subject from time to time; the possible loss of key employees to investment or commercial banks or elsewhere and related compensation cost pressures; failures or malfunctions of our operations and infrastructure; the outcome of any review by controlling tax authorities of the Companys global tax planning initiatives; the outcome of those legacy tax and legal contingencies that relate to the Company, its predecessors and their affiliated companies for which Moodys has assumed portions of the financial responsibility; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate acquired businesses; and a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by financial institutions. These factors, risks and uncertainties as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause Moodys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements are described in greater detail under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10 K, elsewhere in this Form 10 K and in other filings made by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated herein or therein. Stockholders and investors 41 are cautioned that the occurrence of any of these factors, risks and uncertainties may cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. New factors may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict new factors, nor can the Company assess the potential effect of any new factors on it. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption Market Risk in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10 K. 42 
 
