ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Moodys Corporation consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10 K. This MD&A contains Forward Looking Statements. See Forward Looking Statements commencing on page 59 and Item 1A. Risk Factors commencing on page 16 for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and other factors associated with these statements. THE COMPANY Moodys is a provider of (i) credit ratings, (ii) credit and economic related research, data and analytical tools, (iii) risk management software, (iv) quantitative credit risk measures, credit portfolio management solutions, training and financial credentialing and certification services and (v) outsourced research and analytical services to institutional customers. Moodys operates in two reportable segments: MIS and MA. MIS, the credit rating agency, publishes credit ratings on a wide range of debt obligations and the entities that issue such obligations in markets worldwide. Revenue is derived from the originators and issuers of such transactions who use MIS ratings in the distribution of their debt issues to investors. The MA segment, which includes all of the Companys non rating commercial activities, develops a wide range of products and services that support the risk management activities of institutional participants in global financial markets. Within its RD&A business, MA distributes investor oriented research and data developed by MIS as part of its ratings process, including in depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies and commentary on topical credit related events. The RD&A business also produces and provides economic research and credit data and analytical tools such as quantitative credit risk scores. Within its RMS business, MA provides both economic and regulatory capital risk management software solutions. Within its professional services business it provides quantitative credit risk measures, credit portfolio management solutions, training, financial credentialing and certification services as well as outsourced research and analytical services to institutional investors. Moodys purchased CSI and Copal in November 2010 and 2011, respectively, which are currently separate reporting units within MA and for which revenues are reported within the professional services LOB. Moodys purchased B&H in December 2011, which is currently part of the RMS reporting unit and LOB within MA. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Moodys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based on the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires Moodys to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. These estimates are based on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, Moodys evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable allowances, contingencies, goodwill and intangible assets, restructuring liabilities, pension and other post retirement benefits, UTBs and stock based compensation. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The following accounting estimates are considered critical because they are particularly dependent on managements judgment about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made and changes to those estimates could have a material impact on the Companys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or the services have been provided and accepted by the customer when applicable, fees are determinable and the collection of resulting receivables is considered probable. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009 13, Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements (ASU 2009 13). The standard changes the requirements for establishing separate units of accounting in a multiple element arrangement and requires the allocation of arrangement consideration based on the relative selling price of each deliverable. The Company has adopted ASU 2009 13 on a prospective basis for applicable transactions originating or materially modified on or after January 1, 2010. If applied in the same manner to the year ended December 31, 2009, ASU 2009 13 would not have had a material impact on net revenue reported for both its MIS and MA segments in terms of the timing and pattern of revenue recognition. The adoption of ASU 2009 13 did not have a significant effect on the Companys net revenue in the period of adoption and is also not expected to have a significant effect on the MOODYS 2011 10 K 29 Table of Contents Companys net revenue in periods after the initial adoption when applied to multiple element arrangements based on the currently anticipated business volume and pricing. For 2010 and future periods, pursuant to the guidance of ASU 2009 13, when a sales arrangement contains multiple deliverables, the Company allocates revenue to each deliverable based on its relative selling price which is determined based on its vendor specific objective evidence if available, third party evidence if VSOE is not available, or estimated selling price if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. The Companys products and services will generally continue to qualify as separate units of accounting under ASU 2009 13. The Company evaluates each deliverable in an arrangement to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting. A deliverable constitutes a separate unit of accounting when it has stand alone value to the customers and if the arrangement includes a customer refund or return right relative to the delivered item, the delivery and performance of the undelivered item is considered probable and substantially in the Companys control. In instances where the aforementioned criteria are not met, the deliverable is combined with the undelivered items and revenue recognition is determined as one single unit. The Company determines whether its selling price in a multi element transaction meets the VSOE criteria by using the price charged for a deliverable when sold separately. In instances where the Company is not able to establish VSOE for all deliverables in a multiple element arrangement, which may be due to the Company infrequently selling each element separately, not selling products within a reasonably narrow price range, or only having a limited sales history, the Company attempts to establish TPE for deliverables. The Company determines whether TPE exists by evaluating largely similar and interchangeable competitor products or services in standalone sales to similarly situated customers. However, due to the difficulty in obtaining third party pricing, possible differences in the Companys market strategy from that of its peers and the potential that products and services offered by the Company may contain a significant level of differentiation and or customization such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained, the Company generally is unable to reliably determine TPE. Based on the selling price hierarchy established by ASU 2009 13, when the Company is unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, the Company will establish an ESP. ESP is the price at which the Company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand alone basis. The Company establishes its best estimate of ESP considering internal factors relevant to its pricing practices such as costs and margin objectives, standalone sales prices of similar products, percentage of the fee charged for a primary product or service relative to a related product or service, and customer segment and geography. Additional consideration is also given to market conditions such as competitor pricing strategies and market trend. The Company reviews its determination of VSOE, TPE and ESP on an annual basis or more frequently as needed. In the MIS segment, revenue attributed to initial ratings of issued securities is recognized when the rating is issued. Revenue attributed to monitoring of issuers or issued securities is recognized ratably over the period in which the monitoring is performed, generally one year. In the case of commercial mortgage backed securities, derivatives, international residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities, issuers can elect to pay the monitoring fees upfront. These fees are deferred and recognized over the future monitoring periods based on the expected lives of the rated securities, which ranged from two to 51 years at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, deferred revenue related to these securities was approximately $79 million, $76 million and $78 million, respectively. Multiple element revenue arrangements in the MIS segment are generally comprised of an initial rating and the related monitoring service. Beginning January 1, 2010, in instances where monitoring fees are not charged for the first year monitoring effort, fees are allocated to the initial rating and monitoring services based on the relative selling price of each service to the total arrangement fees. The Company generally uses ESP in determining the selling price for its initial ratings as the Company rarely sells initial ratings separately without providing related monitoring services and thus is unable to establish VSOE or TPE for initial ratings. Prior to January 1, 2010 and pursuant to the previous accounting standards, for these types of arrangements the initial rating fee was first allocated to the monitoring service determined based on the estimated fair market value of monitoring services, with the residual amount allocated to the initial rating. Under ASU 2009 13 this practice can no longer be used for non software deliverables. MIS estimates revenue for ratings of commercial paper for which, in addition to a fixed annual monitoring fee, issuers are billed quarterly based on amounts outstanding. Revenue is accrued each quarter based on estimated amounts outstanding and is billed when actual data is available. The estimate is determined based on the issuers most recent reported quarterly data. At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, accounts receivable included approximately $24 million, $25 million and $27 million, respectively, related to accrued commercial paper revenue. Historically, MIS has not had material differences between the estimated revenue and the actual billings. Furthermore, for certain annual monitoring services, fees are not invoiced until the end of the annual monitoring period and revenue is accrued ratably over the monitoring period. In the MA segment, products and services offered by the Company include software licenses and related maintenance, subscriptions, and professional services. Revenue from subscription based products, such as research and data subscriptions and certain software based credit risk management subscription products, is recognized ratably over the related subscription period, which is principally one year. Revenue from sale of perpetual licenses of credit processing software is generally recognized at the time the product master or 30 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents first copy is delivered or transferred to and accepted by the customer. Software maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the annual maintenance period. Revenue from services rendered within the professional services line of business is generally recognized as the services are performed. If uncertainty exists regarding customer acceptance of the product or service, revenue is not recognized until acceptance occurs. A large portion of annual research and data subscriptions and annual software maintenance are invoiced in the months of November, December and January. Products and services offered within the MA segment are sold either stand alone or together in various combinations. In instances where a multiple element arrangement includes software and non software deliverables, revenue is allocated to the non software deliverables and to the software deliverables, as a group, using the relative selling prices of each of the deliverables in the arrangement based on the aforementioned selling price hierarchy. Revenue is recognized for each element based upon the conditions for revenue recognition noted above. If the arrangement contains more than one software deliverable, the arrangement consideration allocated to the software deliverables as a group is allocated to each software deliverable using VSOE. In the instances where the Company is not able to determine VSOE for all of the deliverables of an arrangement, the Company allocates the revenue to the undelivered elements equal to its VSOE and the residual revenue to the delivered elements. If the Company is unable to determine VSOE for an undelivered element, the Company defers all revenue allocated to the software deliverables until the Company has delivered all of the elements or when VSOE has been determined for the undelivered elements. Prior to January 1, 2010 and pursuant to the previous accounting standards, the Company allocated revenue in a multiple element arrangement to each deliverable based on its relative fair value, or for software elements, based on VSOE. If the fair value was not available for an undelivered element, the revenue for the entire arrangement was deferred. Accounts Receivable Allowance Moodys records an allowance for estimated future adjustments to customer billings as a reduction of revenue, based on historical experience and current conditions. Such amounts are reflected as additions to the accounts receivable allowance. Additionally, estimates of uncollectible accounts are recorded as bad debt expense and are reflected as additions to the accounts receivable allowance. Billing adjustments and uncollectible account write offs are charged against the allowance. Moodys evaluates its accounts receivable allowance by reviewing and assessing historical collection and adjustment experience and the current aging status of customer accounts. Moodys also considers the economic environment of the customers, both from an industry and geographic perspective, in evaluating the need for allowances. Based on its analysis, Moodys adjusts its allowance as considered appropriate in the circumstances. This process involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and could involve significant dollar amounts. Accordingly, Moodys results of operations can be affected by adjustments to the allowance. Management believes that the allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable is adequate to cover anticipated adjustments and write offs under current conditions. However, significant changes in any of the above factors, or actual write offs or adjustments that differ from the estimated amounts could impact the Companys consolidated results of operations. Contingencies Accounting for contingencies, including those matters described in the Contingencies section of this MD&A, commencing on page 57 is highly subjective and requires the use of judgments and estimates in assessing their magnitude and likely outcome. In many cases, the outcomes of such matters will be determined by third parties, including governmental or judicial bodies. The provisions made in the consolidated financial statements, as well as the related disclosures, represent managements best estimates of the then current status of such matters and their potential outcome based on a review of the facts and in consultation with outside legal counsel where deemed appropriate. The Company would record a material loss contingency in its financial statements if the loss is both probable of occurring and the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company regularly reviews contingencies and as new information becomes available may, in the future, adjust its associated liabilities. Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets Moodys evaluates its goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, annually as of November 30 or more frequently if impairment indicators arise in accordance with ASC Topic 350. These impairment indicators could include significant events or circumstances that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. At November 30, 2011, the Company had six primary reporting units: one in MIS that encompasses all of Moodys ratings operations and five reporting units within MA: RD&A, RMS, training, CSI and Copal. The RD&A reporting unit encompasses the distribution of investor oriented research and data developed by MIS as part of its ratings process, in depth research on major debt issuers, industry studies, economic research and commentary on topical events and credit analytic tools. The RMS reporting unit consists of credit risk management and compliance software that is sold on a license or subscription basis as well as related advisory services for MOODYS 2011 10 K 31 Table of Contents implementation and maintenance. The training reporting unit consists of the portion of the MA business that offers both credit training as well as other professional development training. In November 2010, the Company acquired CSI, which was analyzed separately as its own reporting unit for the annual goodwill impairment assessment as of November 30, 2011 as the entity has not yet been integrated with one of the aforementioned MA reporting units. In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company acquired Copal which is deemed to be separate reporting unit at December 31, 2011. Additionally, in December 2011, the Company acquired B&H which is part of the RMS reporting unit. In 2011, the FASB issued an ASU which permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before proceeding with a quantitative assessment. The Company has adopted the provisions of this ASU and accordingly, the Company evaluates the recoverability of goodwill using a three step impairment test approach at the reporting unit level. In the first step, the Company assesses various qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit may be less than its carrying amount. If a determination is made that, based on the qualitative factors, an impairment does not exist, the Company is not required to perform further testing. If the aforementioned qualitative assessment results in the Company concluding that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit may be less than its carrying amount, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying value including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired and the Company is not required to perform further testing. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, the Company must perform a third step of the impairment test to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. The implied fair value of the goodwill is determined based on the difference between the fair value of the reporting unit and the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the reporting unit. If the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value, the difference is recognized as an impairment charge. For the reporting units where the Company is consistently able to conclude on impairment using only a qualitative approach, the Companys accounting policy is to perform the second step of the aforementioned goodwill impairment assessment at least once every three years. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite lived acquired intangible asset involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, and appropriate market comparables. The Company bases its fair value estimates on assumptions believed to be reasonable. However, as these estimates and assumptions are unpredictable and inherently uncertain, actual future results may differ from these estimates. In addition, the Company also makes certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of its reporting units. Goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit at the date when an acquisition is integrated into one of the established reporting units, and is based on which reporting unit is expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition. Other assets and liabilities, including applicable corporate assets, are allocated to the extent they are related to the operation of respective reporting units. The Company performed a qualitative analysis as of November 30, 2011 on all reporting units excluding Copal, which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2011 and as such, its purchase price represents the fair value of the net assets acquired. The qualitative assessment considered the impact of various macroeconomic conditions as well as factors specific to the reporting unit that could impact future cash flows. The most significant estimates in these qualitative assessments are projected results for each reporting unit and the WACC. Based upon the aforementioned qualitative assessment, the Company determined that for all of its reporting units excluding its training reporting unit, it was not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. In addition to analyzing macroeconomic factors that could potentially impact the cash flows of the reporting units, the Company analyzed the growth rates and the WACC for each reporting unit, noting that changes in the assumptions from those used as of November 30, 2010 would be favorable to the reporting units valuation. Accordingly, no quantitative test was performed on these reporting units. For the training reporting unit, the Companys projected cash flows for this reporting unit were slightly lower than projected in 2010 primarily due to macroeconomic uncertainties in the U.S. and EMEA. As a result, for the training reporting unit, the Company proceeded to step two of the impairment test more fully described above. Based on the result of this test, the Company does not believe that the goodwill relating to its training reporting unit is at risk of impairment as the fair value for the reporting unit is substantially in excess of its carrying value. 32 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents The following table identifies the amount of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit as of December 31, 2011 as well as the amount by which the net assets of each reporting unit would exceed the fair value under Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test as prescribed in ASC Topic 350, assuming hypothetical reductions in their fair values as of November 30, 2010 for all reporting units excluding the training reporting unit. For these reporting units, the Company has deemed their fair values at November 30, 2010 to approximate their fair values at November 30, 2011 based on the qualitative assessment described above. The sensitivity analysis for the training reporting unit is shown as of November 30, 2011: Sensitivity Analysis Deficit Caused by a Hypothetical Reduction to Fair Value Goodwill 10% 20% 30% 40% MIS $ 13.9 $ $ $ $ RD&A 157.9 RMS 209.6 Training 17.7 (0.5 ) (3.5 ) CSI 104.7 * * * * Copal 139.1 * * * * Totals $ 642.9 $ $ $ (0.5 ) $ (3.5 ) * Copal was excluded from the sensitivity analysis in the table above as well as the sensitivity analyses on the WACC and future cash flow assumptions discussed below as it was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2011. Accordingly, the carrying value of the net assets acquired approximates their fair value at November 30, 2011. Additionally, CSI is excluded from the aforementioned analyses as this acquisition occurred subsequent to the date of the last quantitative goodwill test. For this reporting unit, the Company utilized a qualitative assessment to determine the likelihood of its goodwill being impaired in 2011 and as discussed above, there was no indication of potential impairment based on the assessment. B&H was acquired subsequent to the annual assessment of potential impairment to goodwill which is performed as of November 30. Accordingly, B&H is also excluded from this sensitivity analysis. The following is a discussion regarding the Companys methodology for determining the fair value of its reporting units at November 30, 2010 (excluding the training reporting unit for which a quantitative test was performed as of November 30, 2011), which was the last date that the Company performed a quantitative test to assess the potential impairment of goodwill. Assumptions for deriving the fair value of the training reporting unit have been updated as of November 30, 2011. This discussion excludes B&H, Copal and CSI which have not yet been subject to a full quantitative impairment analysis as of December 31, 2011 due to the timing of the acquisitions of these entities: The fair value of each reporting unit was estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology. The results of the DCF were evaluated against comparable public company and precedent transaction multiples in order to assess the reasonableness of the DCF fair values. The DCF analysis requires significant judgments regarding the derivation of fair value, including estimation of future operating results and cash flows of each reporting unit, which is based on internal budgets and strategic plans, expected long term growth rates, terminal values, weighted average cost of capital and the effects of external factors and market conditions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of the fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit which could result in an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill, which could be material to the Companys financial position and results of operations. Moodys allocates newly acquired goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the acquisition. The Company evaluates its reporting units on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are changes in the reporting structure of the Company due to acquisitions or realignments. The following discusses the key assumptions utilized in the discounted cash flow valuation methodology which requires significant management judgment: WACC The WACC is the rate to discount each reporting units estimated future cash flows. The WACC is calculated based on the proportionate weighting of the cost of debt and equity. The cost of equity is based on a risk free interest rate, an equity risk factor which is derived from public companies similar to the reporting unit and which captures the perceived risks and uncertainties associated with the reporting units cash flows. The cost of debt component is calculated as the weighted average cost associated with all of the Companys outstanding borrowings as of the date of the impairment test and was immaterial to the computation of the WACC. The cost of debt and equity is weighted based on the debt to market capitalization ratio of publicly traded companies with similarities to the reporting unit being tested. The WACC for all reporting units ranged from 9% to 12% in the last quantitative assessment performed. Differences in the WACC used between reporting units is due primarily to distinct risks and uncertainties regarding the cash flows of the different reporting units. A sensitivity analysis of the WACC was performed on all reporting units. An increase in the WACC of one percentage point for each of the reporting units would not have resulted in the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeding its respective estimated fair value under step one of the goodwill impairment test as prescribed in ASC Topic 350. MOODYS 2011 10 K 33 Table of Contents Future cash flow assumptions The projections for future cash flows utilized in the models are derived from historical experience and assumptions regarding future growth and profitability of each reporting unit. These projections are consistent with the Companys operating and strategic plan. Cash flows for each of the next five years subsequent to the date of the last quantitative assessment were estimated based on annual revenue growth rates ranging from 4% to 19%. The growth rates assumed a gradual increase in revenue from financial service customers based on a continued improvement in the global economy and capital markets which began in the second half of 2009. Beyond five years a terminal value was determined using a perpetuity growth rate based on inflation and real GDP growth rates. A sensitivity analysis of the growth rates was performed on all reporting units. A decrease in the growth rates used in the discounted cash flow calculation of 10% for each of the reporting units would not have resulted in the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeding its respective estimated fair value under step one of the goodwill impairment test as prescribed in ASC Topic 350. Amortizable intangible assets are reviewed for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. There were no such events or changes during 2011 that would indicate that the carrying amount of amortizable intangible assets in any of the Companys reporting units may not be recoverable. This determination was made based on improving market conditions and an assessment of projected cash flows for all reporting units. Additionally, there were no events or circumstances during 2011 that would indicate the need for an adjustment of the remaining useful lives of the Companys amortizable intangible assets. Pension and Other Post Retirement Benefits The expenses, assets and liabilities that Moodys reports for its Post Retirement Plans are dependent on many assumptions concerning the outcome of future events and circumstances. These assumptions include the following: future compensation increases, based on the Companys long term actual experience and future outlook long term return on pension plan assets, based on historical portfolio results and the expected future average annual return for each major asset class within the plans portfolio (which is principally comprised of equity and fixed income investments) future healthcare cost trends, based on historical market data, near term outlooks and assessments of likely long term trends discount rates, based on current yields on high grade corporate long term bonds The discount rates selected to measure the present value of the Companys benefit obligation for its Post Retirement Plans as of December 31, 2011 were derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares each plans projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank pension discount curve. The cash flows by plan are then discounted back to present value to determine the discount rate applicable to each plan. Moodys major assumptions vary by plan and assumptions used are set forth in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. In determining these assumptions, the Company consults with outside actuaries and other advisors as deemed appropriate. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in its calculations are reasonable, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions could have a significant effect on the expenses, assets and liabilities related to the Companys Post Retirement Plans. When actual plan experience differs from the assumptions used, actuarial gains or losses arise. Excluding differences between the expected long term rate of return assumption and actual experience on plan assets, the Company amortizes, as a component of annual pension expense, total outstanding gains or losses over the estimated average future working lifetime of active plan participants to the extent that the gain/loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the beginning of year projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets. For Moodys Post Retirement Plans, the total losses as of December 31, 2011 that have not been recognized in annual expense are $119.7 million, and Moodys expects to recognize net periodic benefit expense of $9.4 million in 2012 related to the amortization of actuarial losses. For Moodys funded U.S. pension plan, the differences between the expected long term rate of return assumption and actual experience could also affect the net periodic pension expense. As permitted under ASC Topic 715, the Company spreads the impact of asset experience over a five year period for purposes of calculating the market related value of assets that is used in determining the expected return on assets component of annual expense and in calculating the total unrecognized gain or loss subject to amortization. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has an unrecognized asset loss of $13.6 million, of which $9.3 million will be recognized in the market related value of assets that is used to calculate the expected return on assets component of 2012 expense. 34 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents The table below shows the estimated effect that a one percentage point decrease in each of these assumptions will have on Moodys 2012 operating income. These effects have been calculated using the Companys current projections of 2012 expenses, assets and liabilities related to Moodys Post Retirement Plans, which could change as updated data becomes available. Assumption Used for 2012 Estimated Impact on2012 Operating Income(Decrease)/Increase Weighted Average Discount Rates* 4.25% / 4.05% $ (8.5 ) Weighted Average Assumed Compensation Growth Rate 4.00% $ 2.1 Assumed Long Term Rate of Return on Pension Assets 7.85% $ (1.6 ) * Weighted average discount rates of 4.25% and 4.05% for pension plans and other post retirement plans, respectively. A one percentage point increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates will not affect 2012 projected expenses. Based on current projections, the Company estimates that expenses related to Post Retirement Plans will be $30.1 million in 2012 compared with $24.1 million in 2011, excluding the effect of pension settlement charges. The expected expense increase in 2012 reflects the effects of higher benefit obligations primarily due to lower discount rate assumptions and higher amortization of actuarial losses. Stock Based Compensation The Company records compensation expense for all share based payment award transactions granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. This includes shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing model that uses assumptions and estimates that the Company believes are reasonable. Some of the assumptions and estimates, such as share price volatility and expected option holding period, are based in part on Moodys experience during the period since becoming a public company. The use of different assumptions and estimates in the Black Scholes option pricing model could produce materially different estimated fair values for option awards and related expense. An increase in the following assumptions would have had the following estimated effect on operating income in 2011 (dollars in millions): Assumption Used for2007 2011 grants Increase in Assumption Estimated impact onOperating Income in 2011Increase/(Decrease) Average Expected Dividend Yield 0.4% 2.1% 0.1% $ 0.2 Average Expected Share Price Volatility 23% 48.7% 5% $ (2.1 ) Expected Option Holding Period 5.5 7.6 years 1.0 year $ (1.4 ) Income Taxes The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. The Companys tax assets and liabilities are affected by the amounts charged for service provided and expenses incurred as well as other tax matters such as intercompany transactions. The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method in accordance with ASC Topic 740. Therefore, income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes, and deferred income taxes reflect the effect of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. Moodys is subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions which involve Legacy Tax and other tax matters. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of such audits in order to determine the appropriateness of liabilities for UTPs. The Company classifies interest related to income taxes as a component of interest expense in the Companys consolidated financial statements and associated penalties, if any, as part of other non operating expenses. For UTPs, ASC Topic 740 requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. As the determination of liabilities related to UTPs and associated interest and penalties requires significant estimates to be made by the Company, there can be no assurance that the Company will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and thus the eventual outcomes could have a material impact on the Companys operating results or financial condition. For certain of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company has deemed a portion of the undistributed earnings relating to these subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested within its foreign operations. Accordingly, the Company has not provided deferred income taxes on these MOODYS 2011 10 K 35 Table of Contents indefinitely reinvested earnings. A future distribution or change in assertion regarding reinvestment by the foreign subsidiaries relating to these earnings could result in additional tax liability for the Company. It is not practicable to determine the amount of the potential additional tax liability due to complexities in the tax laws and in the hypothetical calculations that would have to be made. Other Estimates In addition, there are other accounting estimates within Moodys consolidated financial statements, including recoverability of deferred tax assets, anticipated dividend distributions from non U.S. subsidiaries and valuation of investments in affiliates. Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in Moodys consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on Moodys consolidated results of operations or financial condition. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact Moodys. OPERATING SEGMENTS Moodys operates in two reportable segments: MIS and MA. The MIS segment consists of four lines of business corporate finance, structured finance, financial institutions and public, project and infrastructure finance that generate revenue principally from fees for the assignment and ongoing monitoring of credit ratings on debt obligations and the entities that issue such obligations in markets worldwide. The MA segment, which includes all of the Companys non rating commercial activities, develops a wide range of products and services that support the risk management activities of institutional participants in global financial markets. The MA segment consists of three lines of business RD&A, Risk Management Software and Professional Services. In the fourth quarter of 2011, subsidiaries of the Company acquired Copal and B&H. Copal is an outsourced research and consulting business. B&H is a provider of insurance risk management tools. Additionally, in November 2010, a subsidiary of the Company acquired CSI, which is Canadas leading provider of financial learning, credentials and certification. B&H is part of the MA segment and its revenue is included in the RMS LOB and Copals and CSIs revenue is included in the professional services LOB within MA. The following is a discussion of the results of operations of these segments, including the intersegment royalty revenue for MIS and expense charged to MA for the rights to use and distribute content, data and products developed by MIS. The discussion also includes intersegment license fees charged to MIS from MA for the use of certain MA products and services in MISs ratings process. Overhead charges and corporate expenses which exclusively benefit one segment are fully charged to that segment. Additionally, overhead costs and corporate expenses of the Company which benefit both segments are generally allocated to each segment based on a revenue split methodology. Overhead expenses include costs such as rent and occupancy, information technology and support staff such as finance, human resource and information technology. Beginning on January 1, 2011, the Company refined its methodology for allocating the aforementioned overhead and corporate costs to its segments to better align these costs based on each segments usage of the overhead services. The refined methodology is reflected in the segment results for the year ended December 31, 2011 and accordingly, the segment results for the same period in 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified to conform to the new presentation. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2010 Executive Summary Moodys revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 totaled $2,280.7 million, an increase of $248.7 million compared to the same period in 2010. Excluding the favorable impact from changes in FX translation rates, revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011 increased approximately $221 million compared to 2010. Total expenses were $1,392.3 million, an increase of $133.1 million compared to 2010 of which approximately $25 million was due to unfavorable changes in FX translation rates. Operating income of $888.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $115.6 million compared to the same period in the prior year. Diluted EPS of $2.49 for the year ended December 31, 2011, which included a $0.03 benefit related to favorable resolutions of Legacy Tax Matters as well as other tax benefits totaling $0.09, increased $0.34 over the prior year period, which included a $0.15 tax benefit on foreign earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, foreign tax credits and lower state taxes. Excluding the $0.03 favorable impact relating to the resolution of Legacy Tax Matters in 2011, diluted EPS of $2.46 increased $0.33, or 15%, from $2.13 in 2010, which excludes a prior year favorable impact of $0.02 related to the resolution of a Legacy Tax Matter. 36 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents Moodys Corporation The table below provides a summary of revenue and operating results, followed by further insight and commentary: Year Ended December 31, % ChangeFavorable(Unfavorable) 2011 2010 Revenue: United States $ 1,177.0 $ 1,089.5 8 % International: EMEA 708.4 627.4 13 % Other 395.3 315.1 25 % Total International 1,103.7 942.5 17 % Total 2,280.7 2,032.0 12 % Expenses: Operating 683.5 604.8 (13 %) SG&A 629.6 588.0 (7 %) Restructuring 0.1 100 % Depreciation and amortization 79.2 66.3 (19 %) Total 1,392.3 1,259.2 (11 %) Operating income $ 888.4 $ 772.8 15 % Interest (expense) income, net $ (62.1 ) $ (52.5 ) (18 %) Other non operating (expense) income, net $ 13.5 $ (5.9 ) 329 % Net income attributable to Moodys $ 571.4 $ 507.8 13 % Diluted EPS $ 2.49 $ 2.15 16 % The table below shows Moodys global staffing by geographic area: December 31, 2011 2010 % Change United States 2,465 2,333 6 % International 3,661 2,128 72 % Total * 6,126 4,461 37 % * Total as of December 31, 2011 includes approximately 1,300 staff from fourth quarter 2011 MA acquisitions, of which a significant portion are based in low cost jurisdictions Global revenue of $2,280.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $248.7 million compared to the same period in 2010 reflecting strong growth in both segments. The increase in ratings revenue compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects growth across all ratings LOBs, most notably from within CFG and SFG. The growth in MA revenue reflects higher revenue across all LOBs, most notably in professional services which includes revenue from CSI and Copal which were acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 2011, respectively. Transaction revenue accounted for 46% of global MCO revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 44% in the same period of the prior year. U.S. revenue of $1,177.0 million increased $87.5 million over 2010, primarily reflecting growth in CFG largely due to changes in the mix of fee type, new fee initiatives and certain pricing increases. The growth over the prior year also reflects strong rated issuance volumes in the first half of 2011 for investment grade corporate debt. Further contributing to the growth in U.S. ratings revenue over the prior year were higher rated issuance volumes in CREF within SFG. The aforementioned growth in ratings revenue was partially offset by declines in U.S. public and project finance rated issuance. Additionally, the increase over the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects positive results in all LOBs within MA. Non U.S. revenue increased $161.2 million over 2010, reflecting growth in all LOBs within both segments. The most notable growth in non U.S. ratings revenue resulted from higher rated issuance volumes in the EMEA and Asia regions for most asset classes within SFG as MOODYS 2011 10 K 37 Table of Contents well as higher investment grade and speculative grade issuance in the EMEA region in the first half of 2011. Additionally, the growth over 2010 reflects higher infrastructure finance and banking related issuance in the EMEA and Asia regions. Furthermore, there was strong growth in indicative ratings across all regions. The increase in non U.S. MA revenue reflects growth across all LOBs, most notably in professional services, where over 90% of the growth for this LOB is attributed to the acquisitions of CSI and Copal in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 2011, respectively. Changes in FX translation rates had an approximate $28 million favorable impact on non U.S. revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating expenses were $683.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2011, an increase of $78.7 million from the same period in 2010 and reflected both higher compensation and non compensation costs. Compensation costs increased approximately $44 million from the prior year reflecting higher salaries and related employee benefits which has resulted from increases in headcount in both the MIS and MA segments coupled with annual merit increases. Non compensation costs have increased approximately $34 million over the same period in 2010 reflecting higher costs resulting from the Companys ongoing investments in technology infrastructure as well as higher travel related and other variable costs which are correlated with improved overall business conditions in both segments. Also, the increase is due to unfavorable changes in FX translation rates compared to the prior year. Additionally, the increase in both compensation and non compensation costs compared to the prior year reflects costs from CSI which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010 as well as costs related to Copal and B&H which were acquired in the fourth quarter of 2011. SG&A expenses of $629.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $41.6 million from the same period in 2010. Compensation costs increased approximately $41 million primarily due to higher salaries and related employee benefits which reflects annual merit increases and headcount growth in support areas such as compliance and IT. Non compensation expenses were flat compared to the prior year reflecting the offsetting effects of higher professional service costs relating to ongoing investments in technology infrastructure and fees relating to fourth quarter 2011 acquisitions in the MA segment being offset by lower legal and litigation related costs. Depreciation and amortization of $79.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $12.9 million from the same period in 2010 and reflected higher amortization for software developed or obtained for internal use coupled with higher amortization related to intangible assets acquired as part of the fourth quarter 2010 and 2011 MA acquisitions. Operating income of $888.4 million increased $115.6 million from the same period in 2010, reflecting the 12% increase in revenue exceeding the 11% increase in operating expenses. Changes in FX translation rates had an approximate $4 million favorable impact on operating income in the year ended December 31, 2011. Interest (expense) income, net for the year ended December 31, 2011 was ($62.1) million, a $9.6 million increase in expense compared to the same period in 2010. This increase is primarily due to higher expense on borrowings reflecting a full year of interest on the $500 million 2010 Senior Notes issued in August 2010 partially offset by lower interest expense on the $300 million Series 2005 1 Notes resulting from benefits on interest rate swaps entered into in the fourth quarter of 2010 to convert the fixed rate of interest on the notes to a floating LIBOR based rate. This increase in interest expense on borrowings was partially offset by a reversal of interest on UTPs of approximately $3 million related to the favorable resolution of a state tax matter. Additionally, there were benefits of $3.7 million and $2.5 million, in the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to the favorable resolution of Legacy Tax Matters. The benefit in 2011 consists of a $2.8 million reversal of interest expense related to a matter for which the statute of limitations had lapsed coupled with $0.9 million in interest income received for the settlement of a matter for a tax year that preceded the 2000 Distribution. The benefit in 2010 reflects interest income received for the favorable settlement of Legacy Tax Matters. Other non operating (expense) income, net of $13.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $19.4 million compared to the same period in 2010. The increase in income reflects a $6.4 million reversal of reserves in the first half of 2011 for the lapse of a statute of limitations relating to a Legacy Tax Matter. Additionally, there were FX gains of approximately $3 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to FX losses of approximately $5 million in the prior year period. The gains in 2011 primarily reflect transaction gains on the euro and British pound in the first half of 2011. The losses in the prior year period primarily reflected the weakening of the euro to the British pound over the course of 2010. Moodys ETR was 31.2% in the year ended December 31, 2011, up from 28.1% in 2010. The increase was primarily due to tax benefits in 2010 relating to utilization of foreign tax credits, lower state taxes and the indefinite reinvestment of certain foreign earnings, which were only partially offset by beneficial UTB adjustments relating to a foreign tax ruling and the settlement of state tax audits in 2011. Net Income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $571.4 million, or $2.49 per diluted share and increased $63.6 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, compared to the same period in 2010. The increase in EPS over the prior year reflects higher Net Income coupled with fewer diluted shares outstanding compared to 2010. Excluding net benefits from the favorable resolution of Legacy Tax Matters in both periods as well as minor restructuring related adjustments in 2010, Net Income increased $61.1 million, or 12%, to $564.4 million, resulting in a $0.33, or 15%, increase in diluted EPS compared to the prior year. 38 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents Segment Results Moodys Investors Service The table below provides a summary of revenue and operating results, followed by further insight and commentary: Year Ended December 31, % ChangeFavorable(Unfavorable) 2011 2010 Revenue: Corporate finance (CFG) $ 652.1 $ 563.9 16 % Structured finance (SFG) 344.6 290.8 19 % Financial institutions (FIG) 294.9 278.7 6 % Public, project and infrastructure finance (PPIF) 277.3 271.6 2 % Total external revenue 1,568.9 1,405.0 12 % Intersegment royalty 65.8 61.3 7 % Total MIS Revenue 1,634.7 1,466.3 11 % Expenses: Operating and SG&A (including intersegment expenses) 831.0 781.5 (6 %) Restructuring 0.1 100 % Depreciation and amortization 41.0 35.0 (17 %) Total 872.0 816.6 (7 %) Operating income $ 762.7 $ 649.7 17 % The following is a discussion of external MIS revenue and operating expenses: Global MIS revenue of $1,568.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $163.9 million compared to 2010, reflecting growth across all ratings LOBs. The principal driver of the MIS revenue growth reflected changes in the mix of fee type, new fee initiatives and certain pricing increases, primarily in the U.S. The growth also reflected higher rated issuance for investment grade corporate debt and bank loans, most notably in the first half of 2011, resulting from the low interest rate environment throughout 2011. These increases were partially offset by significant declines in speculative grade corporate debt issuance in the second half of 2011 which reflected a considerable widening of high yield credit spreads relating to uncertainties in the U.S. and EMEA capital markets. Additionally, there was growth across most asset classes within SFG compared to challenging conditions in the securitization markets in the prior year as well as stronger banking and insurance related issuance within FIG and infrastructure finance revenue within PPIF in the first half of the year. Transaction revenue for MIS in the year ended December 31, 2011 was 58% of total revenue compared to 57% in 2010, with the increase primarily reflecting the aforementioned growth in rated issuance in the CFG and SFG LOBs. In the U.S., revenue was $879.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 and increased $63.7 million, or 8%, compared to the same period in 2010. The increase reflects the aforementioned changes in the mix of fee type, new fee initiatives and certain pricing increases as well as strong rated issuance volumes for investment grade corporate debt and bank loans in the first half of 2011. Additionally, there were higher rated issuance volumes in the CREF asset class within SFG compared to the same period in 2010. These increases were partially offset by declines in rated issuance volumes for high yield corporate debt in the second half of 2011 coupled with declines in rated issuance for U.S. public finance in 2011. Non U.S. revenue was $689.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 and increased $100.2 million, or 17%, compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase reflects higher rated issuance volumes in the EMEA region across most asset classes within SFG as well as higher infrastructure finance revenue across all regions. Additionally, the increase reflects good growth in revenue from rating high yield and investment grade corporate debt as well as higher banking and insurance related rated issuance in the EMEA region. Changes in FX translation rates had an approximate $28 million favorable impact on non U.S. MIS revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011. Global CFG revenue of $652.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $88.2 million from the same period in 2010. The principal driver of the revenue growth reflected changes in the mix of fee type, new fee initiatives and certain pricing increases, primarily in the U.S. The increase over the prior year also includes strong growth in rated issuance volumes in the first half of the year for investment grade corporate bonds and bank loans reflecting issuers taking advantage of the overall low interest rate environment to refinance existing borrowings. These increases were partially offset by declines in rated issuance volumes in the second half of 2011 MOODYS 2011 10 K 39 Table of Contents resulting from higher credit spreads on speculative grade corporate debt which reflected uncertainties in the EU sovereign debt markets coupled with concerns over the potential weakening of macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. Additionally, the growth over the prior year period reflects higher surveillance revenue. Transaction revenue represented 71% of total CFG revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to 73% in the prior year period. In the U.S., revenue in 2011 was $422.3 million, or $52.8 million higher than the same period in 2010. The increase primarily reflected the aforementioned changes in the mix of fee type, new fee initiatives and certain pricing increases coupled with growth in rated issuance for investment grade corporate debt throughout 2011 as well as bank loans in the first half of 2011. These increases in rated issuance volumes reflect the overall current low interest rate environment which has resulted in issuers opportunistically refinancing debt ahead of scheduled maturities. Also, the growth in investment grade corporate debt reflects an increase in issuance to fund merger and acquisition related activity. These increases were partially offset by declines in rated issuance volumes for high yield corporate debt in the second half of 2011 due to significantly higher credit spreads on these securities reflecting macroeconomic uncertainty in the U.S. and EMEA. Internationally, revenue of $229.8 million in 2011 increased $35.4 million compared to the same period in 2010. This increase was driven by rated issuance growth in high yield corporate debt and bank loans in the first half of 2011 before sovereign debt uncertainties in the EMEA region, which were exacerbated in the second half of 2011, resulted in a pull back of both investment grade and high yield issuance. The growth in non U.S. revenue over the prior year period also reflected an increase in Indicative Ratings assigned. Favorable changes in FX translation rates had an approximate $9 million impact on international CFG revenue in 2011. Global SFG revenue of $344.6 million in 2011 increased $53.8 million compared to the same period in 2010, primarily reflecting growth in most asset classes internationally coupled with strong growth in rated CMBS issuance volumes in the U.S. The aforementioned growth resulted in transaction revenue increasing to 52% of total SFG revenue in 2011 compared to 43% in the prior year period. In the U.S., revenue of $161.6 million increased $18.7 million compared to 2010, reflecting good growth in CMBS rated issuance volumes due to the current favorable credit market environment and narrow credit spreads for this asset class for most of 2011. Non U.S. revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011 of $183.0 million increased $35.1 million compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily reflecting growth across most asset classes within the EMEA region, most notably in the ABS, RMBS and covered bonds sectors compared to a challenging prior year period in the non U.S. securitization markets. The increases in ABS and RMBS also reflected issuers requesting a second rating for these securities in the first quarter of 2011, which was a new requirement by the ECB for existing asset backed securities that could be used as collateral in Eurosystem credit operations. Favorable changes in FX translation rates had an approximate $10 million impact on international SFG revenue in 2011. Global FIG revenue of $294.9 million in 2011 increased $16.2 million compared to the same period in 2010 with the increase almost entirely reflecting the favorable impact of the aforementioned changes in the mix of fee type, new fee initiatives and pricing increases, primarily in the U.S. Additionally, higher rated issuance volumes in the first half of 2011 were mostly offset by volume declines in the second half of 2011 which resulted from uncertainties in the European sovereign debt markets. Transaction revenue was 34% of total FIG revenue in 2011, compared to 37% in 2010. In the U.S., revenue of $118.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $4.3 million compared to the prior year. Outside the U.S., revenue in 2011 was $176.2 million, or $11.9 million higher than in the prior year, and was primarily due to growth in banking and insurance revenue in the EMEA and Asia regions. Favorable changes in FX translation rates had an approximate $6 million impact on international FIG revenue in the year ended December 31, 2011. Global PPIF revenue was $277.3 million in 2011, an increase of $5.7 million compared to the same period in 2010. The principal driver of the increase reflected changes in the mix of fee type, new fee initiatives and certain pricing increases, primarily in the U.S. This increase was partially offset by declines in U.S. public and project finance issuance. Revenue generated from new transactions was 58% of total PPIF revenue in 2011, compared to 59% in the prior year period. In the U.S., revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $176.5 million decreased $12.1 million compared to the prior year primarily due to declines in public and project finance rated issuance partially offset by the aforementioned changes in the mix of fee type, new fee initiatives and pricing changes. These declines in rated issuance volumes reflected decreases in state and local government spending and the expiration of the Build America Bond Program in the fourth quarter of 2010, which was implemented in the U.S. as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Outside the U.S., PPIF revenue increased 21% compared to 2010 due to growth in infrastructure finance revenue across all non U.S. regions. Favorable changes in FX translation rates had an approximate $4 million impact on international PPIF revenue in 2011. Operating and SG&A expenses in 2011 increased $49.5 million compared to the same period in 2010 reflecting higher compensation costs of approximately $41 million coupled with higher non compensation expenses of approximately $7 million. The increase in compensation costs reflects higher salaries and related employee benefits resulting from annual merit increases, modest headcount growth in the ratings LOBs as well as in support areas such as IT for which the costs are allocated to each segment based on a revenue split methodology. The increase in non compensation expenses reflects: (i) higher costs related to the Companys continued investment in IT infrastructure, (ii) higher rent and occupancy costs relating to various real estate relocation and expansion projects and (iii) higher variable costs such as T&E to support business growth. These increases were partially offset by lower legal and litigation related costs as well as lower bad debt expense compared to the prior year. 40 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents Operating income in 2011 of $762.7 million, which includes intersegment royalty revenue and intersegment license expense, increased $113.0 million from the same period in 2010 and reflects the 11% increase in total MIS revenue outpacing the 7% increase in total operating expenses. Moodys Analytics The table below provides a summary of revenue and operating results, followed by further insight and commentary: Year Ended December 31, % ChangeFavorable(Unfavorable) 2011 2010 Revenue: Research, data and analytics (RD&A) $ 451.3 $ 425.0 6 % Risk management software (RMS) 183.4 173.2 6 % Professional services 77.1 28.8 168 % Total external revenue 711.8 627.0 14 % Intersegment license fees 10.6 9.3 14 % Total MA Revenue 722.4 636.3 14 % Expenses: Operating and SG&A (including intersegment expenses) 558.5 481.9 (16 %) Depreciation and amortization 38.2 31.3 (22 %) Total 596.7 513.2 (16 %) Operating income $ 125.7 $ 123.1 2 % The following is a discussion of external MA revenue and operating expenses: Global MA revenue increased $84.8 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, with 72% of the growth generated internationally, and reflected revenue from CSI which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010 as well as revenue from Copal and B&H which were acquired in the fourth quarter of 2011. Recurring revenue comprised 80% of total MA revenue in 2011 compared to 85% in the same period of the prior year. In the U.S., revenue of $297.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $23.8 million, primarily reflecting growth in RD&A and RMS. International revenue of $413.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $61.0 million higher than the same period in 2010. The increase reflected growth across all LOBs, most notably in professional services which includes revenue from the CSI and Copal acquisitions which were completed in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 2011, respectively. Global RD&A revenue, which comprised over 63% of MA revenue in both of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, increased $26.3 million over the prior year reflecting greater demand for products that support analysis for investment and commercial credit applications. Global RMS revenue in 2011 increased $10.2 million over the same period in 2010, due to the final delivery and client acceptance of software licenses and implementations. Revenue from the professional services LOB increased $48.3 million compared to the same period in 2010, with approximately 91% of the growth reflecting the acquisitions of CSI and Copal in the fourth quarter of 2010 and 2011, respectively, coupled with growth in the base business. Revenue in the RMS and professional services LOBs are subject to quarterly volatility resulting from the variable nature of project timing and the concentration of revenue in a relatively small number of engagements. Operating and SG&A expenses in 2011, which include the intersegment royalty for the right to use and distribute content, data and products developed by MIS, increased $76.6 million compared to the same period in 2010 reflecting both higher compensation and non compensation costs of approximately $44 million and $28 million, respectively. The increase in compensation costs reflects higher salaries and related employee benefits resulting from annual merit increases coupled with a full year of compensation costs relating to the acquisition of CSI in the fourth quarter of 2010 as well as increased headcount to support business growth. Additionally, the increase in compensation costs reflects higher incentive compensation primarily due to the aforementioned growth in headcount. The increase in non compensation costs reflects a full year of expenses related to CSI which was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2010, approximately $8 million in costs directly related to the fourth quarter 2011 acquisitions of Copal and B&H as well as higher variable costs, such as T&E, that are correlated with business growth. MOODYS 2011 10 K 41 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization of $38.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $6.9 million from the same period in 2010 and reflected higher amortization related to intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisitions of CSI in the fourth quarter of 2010 as well as Copal and B&H in the fourth quarter of 2011. Operating income of $125.7 million in 2011, which includes intersegment license fee revenue and intersegment royalty expense, increased $2.6 million compared to the same period in 2010, reflecting the $86.1 million increase in total MA revenue exceeding the $83.5 million increase in total expenses. Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared with Year Ended December 31, 2009 Executive Summary Moodys revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 totaled $2,032.0 million, an increase of $234.8 million compared to the same period in 2009. Total expenses were $1,259.2 million, an increase of $149.5 million compared to 2009. Operating income of $772.8 million in 2010 increased $85.3 million compared to the same period in the prior year. Excluding the restructuring charge in 2009 and minor restructuring related adjustments in both years, operating income increased $67.9 million from $705.0 million in the prior year period. Diluted EPS of $2.15 for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $0.46, or 27% over the prior year period and included a benefit of $0.02 associated with the resolution of a Legacy Tax Matter as well as other tax benefits of $0.15 in 2010 relating to foreign earnings that are indefinitely reinvested, foreign tax credits and lower state taxes. Excluding the aforementioned Legacy Tax Matter in 2010, diluted EPS of $2.13 increased $0.43, or 25%, from $1.70 in 2009, which excludes a prior year favorable impact of $0.04 related to the resolution of a Legacy Tax Matter and an unfavorable $0.05 impact for restructuring. Moodys Corporation The table below provides a summary of revenue and operating results, followed by further insight and commentary: Year Ended December 31, % ChangeFavorable(Unfavorable) 2010 2009 Revenue: United States $ 1,089.5 $ 920.8 18 % International: EMEA 627.4 624.7 Other 315.1 251.7 25 % Total International 942.5 876.4 8 % Total 2,032.0 1,797.2 13 % Expenses: Operating 604.8 532.4 (14 %) SG&A 588.0 495.7 (19 %) Restructuring 0.1 17.5 99 % Depreciation and amortization 66.3 64.1 (3 %) Total 1,259.2 1,109.7 (13 %) Operating income $ 772.8 $ 687.5 12 % Interest (expense) income, net $ (52.5 ) $ (33.4 ) (57 %) Other non operating (expense) income, net $ (5.9 ) $ (7.9 ) 25 % Net income attributable to Moodys $ 507.8 $ 402.0 26 % Diluted EPS $ 2.15 $ 1.69 27 % The table below shows Moodys global staffing by geographic area: December 31, 2010 2009 % Change United States 2,333 2,144 9 % International 2,128 1,834 16 % Total 4,461 3,978 12 % 42 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents Global revenue of $2,032.0 million in 2010 increased $234.8 million compared to the same period in 2009, reflecting good growth in both ratings and MA revenue. The growth in ratings revenue is primarily due to strong issuance activity in 2010 within the corporate finance, financial institution and public finance debt markets. The growth in MA is due to higher revenue across all LOBs. Transaction revenue accounted for 44% of global MCO revenue in 2010 compared to 37% in the same period of the prior year. U.S. revenue increased $168.7 million over 2009 reflecting growth in all ratings LOBs, most notably in rated issuance volumes for bank loans and speculative grade corporate bonds. There was also good growth over the prior year in U.S. public finance and CREF rated issuance. Additionally, there was growth in all LOBs within the MA segment, most notably in RMS. International revenue increased $66.1 million compared to the same period in 2009 primarily reflecting growth in CFG revenue, particularly in speculative grade ratings in EMEA, coupled with higher banking related revenue across all regions. Additionally, the growth reflects higher revenue across all MA LOBs, primarily from within the Asia and the Americas regions. These increases were partially offset by declines in most asset classes within SFG as well as declines in investment grade rated issuance within the EMEA region. Operating expenses were $604.8 million in 2010, an increase of $72.4 million from the same period in 2009 and were primarily due to both higher compensation and non compensation costs. Compensation costs increased approximately $63 million reflecting approximately $30 million higher incentive compensation primarily resulting from greater achievement against targeted results compared to achievement against targeted results in the prior year period, a $7 million global profit sharing contribution due to the Companys growth in diluted EPS over 2009 and approximately $29 million higher salaries and related employee benefits primarily due to annual merit increases coupled with higher headcount in both operating segments to support business growth. Non compensation costs increased approximately $9 million reflecting higher professional service costs for ongoing investments in technology infrastructure as well as higher travel related costs which reflects improving business conditions compared to 2009. SG&A expenses of $588.0 million in 2010 increased $92.3 million from the same period in 2009. Non compensation expenses increased approximately $47 million over the prior year primarily reflecting higher professional service costs relating to ongoing investments in technology infrastructure as well as higher legal and litigation related costs related to ongoing matters. Compensation costs increased approximately $45 million primarily due to higher salaries and related employee benefits which reflects annual merit increases and headcount growth in sales personnel within MA as well as in support areas such as compliance and IT. Additionally there was approximately $10 million higher incentive compensation costs compared to 2009 which primarily reflects greater achievement against targeted results compared to the achievement of targeted results in the prior year period. Furthermore, there was an approximate $6 million profit sharing contribution in 2010 due to the Companys year over year growth in diluted EPS. Restructuring expense in 2009 reflects severance costs associated with the 2009 Restructuring Plan approved on March 27, 2009 and adjustments to the previous estimates for both the 2007 and 2009 Restructuring Plans. Operating income of $772.8 million was up $85.3 million from the same period in 2009, reflecting the 13% increase in revenue being partially offset by the $149.5 million increase in expenses. Excluding the restructuring charge in 2009 and minor restructuring related adjustments in both periods, operating income increased $67.9 million over 2009. Interest (expense) income, net for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $(52.5) million, a $19.1 million increase in expense compared to the same period in 2009. The increase relates primarily to an interest expense reduction of approximately $12 million in the first quarter of 2009 for UTBs and other tax related liabilities that did not recur in 2010. Also, there was an approximate $7 million increase in interest expense on borrowings which primarily reflects interest on the 2010 Senior Notes issued in the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, there was interest income related to the favorable settlement of Legacy Tax Matters of $2.5 million and $6.5 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Other non operating (expense) income, net of $(5.9) million in 2010 decreased $2.0 million compared to the prior year. This decrease primarily reflects FX losses of approximately $(5) million in 2010 compared to losses of approximately $(10) million in 2009. The FX losses in both periods primarily reflect the weakening of the euro to the British pound over both of the twelve month periods ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Moodys ETR was 28.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010, down from 37.0% in 2009 and was primarily due to increased taxable income internationally; indefinite reinvestment of certain foreign earnings; utilization of foreign tax credits; lower state taxes; and a resolution of a non U.S. tax audit resulting in a reduction of UTBs. Additionally, the 2009 ETR reflects a non taxable $12 million interest expense reduction related to UTBs and other tax related liabilities. The 2010 and 2009 tax expense included benefits of $2.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively, relating to the favorable resolution of Legacy Tax Matters (see Contingencies Legacy Tax Matters below for further information). Excluding the Legacy Tax Matters in both years, the ETR in 2010 of 28.5% decreased 910 Bps from 2009. MOODYS 2011 10 K 43 Table of Contents Net Income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $507.8 million, or $2.15 per diluted share, and increased $105.8 million, or $0.46 per diluted share, compared to the prior year. Included in the 2010 Net Income were tax benefits of approximately $36 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, relating to the indefinite reinvestment of certain foreign earnings, utilization of foreign tax credits and lower state taxes. Excluding benefits for favorable resolutions of Legacy Tax Matters in both 2010 and 2009, as well as the restructuring charge in 2009 and related adjustments in both years, Net Income increased $98.6 million, or 24%, to $503.3 million, resulting in a $0.43, or 25%, increase in diluted EPS compared to the prior year. Segment Results Moodys Investors Service The table below provides a summary of revenue and operating results, followed by further insight and commentary: Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable(Unfavorable) 2010 2009 Revenue: Corporate finance (CFG) $ 563.9 $ 408.2 38 % Structured finance (SFG) 290.8 304.9 (5 %) Financial institutions (FIG) 278.7 258.5 8 % Public, project and infrastructure finance (PPIF) 271.6 246.1 10 % Total external revenue 1,405.0 1,217.7 15 % Intersegment royalty 61.3 60.0 2 % Total MIS Revenue 1,466.3 1,277.7 15 % Expenses: Operating and SG&A (including intersegment expenses) 781.5 674.7 (16 %) Restructuring 0.1 8.7 99 % Depreciation and amortization 35.0 31.3 (12 %) Total 816.6 714.7 (14 %) Operating income $ 649.7 $ 563.0 15 % The following is a discussion of external MIS revenue as well as operating expenses: Global MIS revenue of $1,405.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $187.3 million compared to the same period in 2009. The increase reflects strong growth in rated issuance volumes for high yield corporate debt and bank loans within CFG as well as good growth from public finance and banking related issuance within PPIF and FIG, respectively. These increases were partially offset by declines in derivatives and investment grade corporate debt rated issuance volumes within SFG and CFG, respectively. Transaction revenue for MIS in 2010 was 57% of total revenue compared to 50% in 2009, with the increase primarily reflecting the aforementioned strong rated issuance in the high yield corporate debt and bank loan sectors within CFG. In the U.S., revenue was $815.4 million in 2010, an increase of $152.3 million, or 23%, compared to the same period in 2009. The increase relates primarily to strong rated issuance volumes in bank loans and high yield corporate debt within CFG, higher rated issuance in the CREF sector within SFG and good growth in PPIF. These increases were partially offset by declines in derivatives and consumer asset backed securities rated issuance within SFG. Non U.S. revenue was $589.6 million in 2010, an increase of $35.0 million, or 6%, over the prior year. The increase reflects growth in banking related revenue across all non U.S. regions as well as higher speculative grade corporate debt issuance in the EMEA region. Additionally, there was higher revenue in 2010 for Indicative Ratings and Corporate Family Ratings in the EMEA region. These increases were partially offset by declines within the EMEA region in most asset classes within SFG coupled with lower rated issuance volumes for investment grade corporate debt. Global CFG revenue of $563.9 million in 2010 increased $155.7 million from the prior year primarily due to higher rated issuance volumes in the high yield corporate debt and bank loan sectors, coupled with an increase in Indicative Ratings and Corporate Family Ratings. The aforementioned growth was partially offset by declines in rated issuance for investment grade corporate debt which reflects a strong prior year comparative period where many companies were refinancing their debt ahead of expected maturities. 44 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents Transaction revenue represented 73% of total CFG revenue in 2010, compared to 64% in the prior year. In the U.S., revenue in 2010 was $369.5 million, or 47% higher than the same period in 2009. This increase is primarily due to higher bank loan issuance reflecting the narrowing of credit spreads and the low interest rate environment in 2010 which has resulted in a high volume of refinancing activity coupled with increased issuance related to leveraged buy out activity. Additionally, there was higher speculative grade corporate debt issuance reflecting increased investor appetite for high yield instruments as stability has gradually returned to the corporate credit markets. Internationally, revenue of $194.4 million in 2010 increased 24% compared to the same period in 2009, driven primarily by growth in rated issuance volumes for speculative grade corporate debt across all regions which reflects the aforementioned increased investor confidence in the high yield markets coupled with higher revenue from Indicative Ratings and Corporate Family Ratings in the EMEA region. These increases were partially offset by declines in investment grade rated issuance in EMEA reflecting a strong comparative prior year period where many companies were refinancing their debt ahead of expected maturities. Global SFG revenue of $290.8 million in 2010 decreased $14.1 million compared to the same period in 2009 reflecting lower revenue in the derivatives and consumer asset backed securities asset classes partially offset by increased rated issuance activity in U.S. CREF. Transaction revenue represented 43% of total SFG revenue in 2010 compared to 41% in the prior year period. In the U.S., revenue of $142.9 million in 2010 increased $0.8 million compared to the prior year reflecting growth in both commercial mortgage backed securities and real estate investment trusts rated issuance resulting from the low interest rate environment and narrowing credit spreads in these sectors. The aforementioned growth was almost completely offset by continued declines in the derivatives sector as well as declines in consumer asset backed securities issuance reflecting continued lack of investor demand as well as regulatory uncertainties pertaining to these asset classes. Non U.S. revenue of $147.9 million in 2010 decreased $14.9 million compared to the prior year, reflecting declines in most asset classes within the EMEA region as uncertainties surrounding the EU sovereign debt markets at various times throughout 2010 has reduced investor demand for structured products. Global FIG revenue of $278.7 million in 2010 increased $20.2 million from the prior year, primarily reflecting higher banking related revenue. Transaction revenue increased to 37% of global FIG revenue, up from 31% in the prior year period. In the U.S., revenue of $114.4 million in 2010 increased $7.1 million compared to the prior year. The growth over the prior year was driven by higher insurance related rated issuance which reflected insurers taking advantage of the low interest rate environment in 2010 to refinance debt ahead of expected maturities as well as issuance to fund acquisition activity. Outside the U.S., revenue in 2010 was $164.3 million, or 9% higher than in the prior year, and was primarily due to growth in banking revenue across all non U.S. regions, most notably in the Asia and Americas regions, compared to a challenging prior year period. Global PPIF revenue was $271.6 million in 2010, an increase of $25.5 million compared to the same period in 2009, primarily reflecting increases in public and project finance revenue. Revenue generated from new transactions was 59% of total PPIF revenue in 2010, unchanged from the prior year period. In the U.S., revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $188.6 million increased 16% over the prior year primarily due to growth in public finance revenue which reflects modest price increases compared to the prior year coupled with issuance relating to the Build America Bond Program which was implemented in the U.S. as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Additionally, there was higher project and infrastructure finance revenue as issuers took advantage of the low interest rate environment and the Build America Bond Program to fund capital expenditure needs. Outside the U.S., PPIF revenue decreased 1% compared to prior year reflecting declines in infrastructure and project finance revenue within the EMEA region due to uncertainties in the EU debt markets at various times during 2010 coupled with a strong comparative prior year period. These decreases were offset by higher project finance rated issuance in the Asia and Americas regions. Operating and SG&A expenses in 2010 increased $106.8 million compared to the prior year and reflected increases in compensation and non compensation expenses of approximately $63 million and $45 million, respectively. The increase in compensation expenses relates to higher salaries reflecting annual merit increases, modest headcount growth within the ratings LOBs as well as support areas such as compliance and IT for which the costs are allocated to each segment based on a revenue split methodology. Additionally, there was higher incentive compensation due to greater achievement against targeted results in 2010 compared to the achievement against targeted results in the prior year. Furthermore, there was a profit sharing contribution in 2010 reflecting the Companys diluted EPS growth over 2009. The increase in non compensation expenses primarily reflects higher legal and litigation related costs relating to ongoing matters and higher IT consulting costs relating to investments in technology infrastructure. The restructuring charge of $8.7 million in the prior year period reflects costs associated with the 2009 Restructuring Plan approved in the first quarter of 2009 as well as minor adjustments made to both the 2009 and 2007 restructuring plans. Operating income in 2010 of $649.7 million, which includes the intersegment royalty revenue, increased $86.7 million from the prior year and reflects the 15% increase in total MIS revenue exceeding the 14% increase in operating expenses. Excluding the restructuring related amounts in both periods, operating income in 2010 was $649.8 million, an increase of $78.1 million from the same period in 2009. MOODYS 2011 10 K 45 Table of Contents Moodys Analytics The table below provides a summary of revenue and operating results, followed by further insight and commentary: Year Ended December 31, % Change Favorable(Unfavorable) 2010 2009 Revenue: Research, data and analytics (RD&A) $ 425.0 $ 413.6 3 % Risk management software (RMS) 173.2 145.1 19 % Professional services 28.8 20.8 38 % Total external revenue 627.0 579.5 8 % Intersegment license fees 9.3 10.6 (12 %) Total 636.3 590.1 8 % Expenses: Operating and SG&A (including intersegment expenses) 481.9 424.0 (14 %) Restructuring 8.8 100 % Depreciation and amortization 31.3 32.8 (5 %) Total 513.2 465.6 (10 %) Operating income $ 123.1 $ 124.5 (1 %) Global MA revenue in 2010 increased $47.5 million over the prior year primarily reflecting growth in all three LOBs. Recurring revenue, which includes subscriptions and software maintenance fees, comprised 85% of MA revenue in 2010, down from 89% in the same period of 2009. Revenue in the U.S. increased $16.4 million, or 6%, over the prior year and reflected growth across all LOBs, most notably in RMS. International revenue, which represented 56% of total MA revenue in both 2010 and 2009, increased 10% over the prior year reflecting growth in all LOBs. Global RD&A revenue, which comprised over 67% of total MA revenue in both 2010 and 2009, increased $11.4 million, or 3%, over the prior year. The increase reflects greater demand for products that support analysis for investment and commercial credit applications and also the gradual stabilization among capital markets customers as disruption from the global financial crisis recedes. Global RMS revenue in 2010 increased $28.1 million over the prior year primarily due to the final delivery and client acceptance of software licenses and implementations, primarily from within the U.S and Asia regions. Revenue from professional services increased $8.0 million compared to 2009, with approximately 40% of the growth related to the acquisition of CSI in the fourth quarter of 2010. Revenue in the RMS and professional services LOBs are subject to quarterly volatility resulting from the variable nature of project timing and the concentration of revenue in a relatively small number of engagements. Operating and SG&A expenses in 2010, which include the intersegment royalty for the right to use and distribute content, data and products developed by MIS, increased $57.9 million compared to 2009 reflecting both higher compensation and non compensation costs of approximately $45 million and $12 million, respectively. The increase in compensation costs is primarily due to higher incentive compensation reflecting greater achievement against targeted results in 2010 compared to achievement against targeted results in the prior year coupled with a profit sharing contribution in 2010 reflecting the Companys diluted EPS growth over 2009. Additionally, there were higher salaries reflecting annual merit increases and headcount increases to support business growth coupled with an increase in commission expense compared to the prior year reflecting higher MA sales. The increase in non compensation costs reflects higher legal and litigation related costs relating to ongoing matters that Moodys Corporation is exposed to, which are allocated to MA as part of the allocation of overhead and corporate expenses which is based on a revenue split methodology. Additionally, the increase in non compensation expenses reflects higher travel and entertainment costs due to improving business conditions over the prior year. The restructuring charge of $8.8 million in the prior year period reflects severance costs associated with the 2009 Restructuring Plan approved in the first quarter of 2009, which includes costs related to the divestiture of non strategic assets and contract termination costs for office closures as well as minor adjustments made to original estimates for the 2007 Restructuring Plan. 46 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents Operating income of $123.1 million in 2010, which includes the intersegment royalty expense, decreased $1.4 million compared to the prior year, reflecting the $47.6 million increase in total expenses exceeding the $46.2 million increase in revenue. Excluding the 2009 restructuring charge and minor restructuring related adjustments for both restructuring plans in 2009, operating income decreased $10.2 million from the same period in 2009. Non GAAP Financial Measures: In addition to its reported results, Moodys has included in this MD&A certain adjusted results that the SEC defines as non GAAP financial measures. Management believes that such non GAAP financial measures, when read in conjunction with the Companys reported results, can provide useful supplemental information for investors analyzing period to period comparisons of the Companys performance. These non GAAP financial measures relate to expenses and adjustments made to both the Companys 2007 and 2009 Restructuring Plans and Legacy Tax Matters, further described in Note 11 and Note 18, respectively, to the Companys consolidated financial statements. The table below shows Moodys consolidated results for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, adjusted to exclude the impact of the aforementioned items: Year Ended December 31, Amounts in millions, except per share amounts 2011 2010 AsReported LegacyTax (a) Non GAAPFinancialMeasures AsReported Restructuring (b) LegacyTax (a) Non GAAPFinancialMeasures Total expenses $ 1,392.3 $ $ 1,392.3 $ 1,259.2 $ (0.1 ) $ $ 1,259.1 Operating income $ 888.4 $ $ 888.4 $ 772.8 $ 0.1 $ $ 772.9 Interest (expense), income, net $ (62.1 ) $ (0.9 ) $ (63.0 ) $ (52.5 ) $ $ (2.5 ) $ (55.0 ) Other non operating (expense) income, net $ 13.5 $ (6.4 ) $ 7.1 $ (5.9 ) $ $ $ (5.9 ) Provision for income taxes $ 261.8 $ (0.3 ) $ 261.5 $ 201.0 $ $ 2.1 $ 203.1 Net income attributable to Moodys Corporation $ 571.4 $ (7.0 ) $ 564.4 $ 507.8 $ 0.1 $ (4.6 ) $ 503.3 Earnings per share attributable to Moodys common shareholders Basic $ 2.52 $ (0.03 ) $ 2.49 $ 2.16 $ $ (0.02 ) $ 2.14 Diluted $ 2.49 $ (0.03 ) $ 2.46 $ 2.15 $ $ (0.02 ) $ 2.13 Year Ended December 31, 2009 AsReported Restructuring (b) LegacyTax (a) Non GAAPFinancialMeasures Total expenses $ 1,109.7 $ (17.5 ) $ $ 1,092.2 Operating income $ 687.5 $ 17.5 $ $ 705.0 Interest (expense) income, net $ (33.4 ) $ $ (6.5 ) $ (39.9 ) Provision for income taxes $ 239.1 $ 6.6 $ 1.7 $ 247.4 Net income attributable to Moodys Corporation $ 402.0 $ 10.9 $ (8.2 ) $ 404.7 Earnings per share attributable to Moodys common shareholders Basic $ 1.70 $ 0.05 $ (0.04 ) $ 1.71 Diluted $ 1.69 $ 0.05 $ (0.04 ) $ 1.70 (a) To exclude benefits and related tax resulting from the resolution of certain Legacy Tax Matters. (b) To exclude amounts related to the 2009 restructuring charge as well as minor adjustments related to both the 2009 and 2007 restructuring charges. Additionally, includes the tax impacts of the aforementioned adjustments. MOODYS 2011 10 K 47 Table of Contents MARKET RISK Foreign exchange risk: Moodys maintains a presence in 27 countries outside the U.S. In 2011, approximately 47% and 51% of the Companys revenue and expenses, respectively, were in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, principally in the GBP and the euro. As such, the Company is exposed to market risk from changes in FX rates. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 55% of Moodys assets were located outside the United States making the Company susceptible to fluctuations in FX rates. The effects of translating assets and liabilities of non U.S. operations with non U.S. functional currencies to the U.S. dollar are charged or credited to the cumulative translation adjustment account in the consolidated statements of shareholders equity (deficit). The effects of revaluing assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than an entitys functional currency are charged to other non operating income (expense), net in the Companys consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, the Company enters into foreign exchange forwards to mitigate the change in fair value on certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than an entitys functional currency. If all foreign currencies in the Companys foreign exchange forward portfolio were to devalue 10% compared to the U.S. dollar, there would be an approximate $3 million unfavorable impact to the fair value of the forward contracts. This unfavorable change in fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts would be offset by favorable FX revaluation gains in future earnings on underlying assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than an entitys functional currency. Additional information on the Companys forward contracts can be found in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Form 10K. Credit and Interest rate risk: The Companys interest rate risk management objective is to reduce the funding cost and volatility to the Company and to alter the interest rate exposure to the desired risk profile. Moodys uses interest rate swaps as deemed necessary to assist in accomplishing this objective. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk as it relates to its floating rate $150 million 2008 Term Loan entered into on May 7, 2008. The Company entered into interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $150 million to protect against fluctuations in the LIBOR based variable interest rate. These swaps are adjusted to fair market value based on prevailing interest rates at the end of each reporting period and fluctuations related to unrealized gains and losses are recorded into AOCI, while net interest payments are recorded in interest expense (income), net in the consolidated statements of operations. A hypothetical change of 100bps in the LIBOR based swap rate would result in an approximate $1 million change to the fair value of these interest rate swaps which would be recognized in the statement of operations over the swaps remaining contractual term. Additional information on this interest rate swap is disclosed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Form 10K. Additionally, the Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its various outstanding fixed rate debt for which the fair value of the outstanding fixed rate debt fluctuates based on changes in interest rates. The Company entered into interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $300 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 to convert the fixed rate of interest on its $300 million Series 2005 1 Notes to a floating interest rate based on the 3 month LIBOR. These swaps are adjusted to fair market value based on prevailing interest rates at the end of each reporting period and fluctuations are recorded as a reduction or addition to the carrying value of the Series 2005 1 Notes, while net interest payments are recorded as interest expense/income in the Companys consolidated statements of operations. A hypothetical change of 100bps in the LIBOR based swap rate would result in an approximate $12 million change to the fair value of these interest rate swaps. Additional information on this interest rate swap is disclosed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements located in Item 8 of this Form 10K. Moodys aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $760.0 million at December 31, 2011 consisted of approximately $550 million located outside the U.S. Moodys cash equivalents consist of investments in high quality investment grade securities within and outside the U.S. with maturities of three months or less when purchased. The Company manages its credit risk exposure by allocating its cash equivalents among various money market mutual funds and issuers of high grade commercial paper and by limiting the amount it can invest with any single issuer. Short term investments primarily consist of certificates of deposit and high quality investment grade corporate bonds in Korea. 48 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flow The Company is currently financing its operations, capital expenditures and share repurchases through cash flow from operations. The following is a summary of the changes in the Companys cash flows followed by a brief discussion of these changes: Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 $ ChangeFavorable(unfavorable) 2010 2009 $ ChangeFavorable(unfavorable) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 803.3 $ 653.3 $ 150.0 $ 653.3 $ 643.8 $ 9.5 Net cash used in investing activities $ (267.6 ) $ (228.8 ) $ (38.8 ) $ (228.8 ) $ (93.8 ) $ (135.0 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (417.7 ) $ (241.3 ) $ (176.4 ) $ (241.3 ) $ (348.8 ) $ 107.5 Net cash provided by operating activities Year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010: The $150.0 million increase in net cash flows provided by operating activities resulted from an increase in net income of $64.6 million, which was further impacted by the following changes in assets and liabilities: An approximate $118 million increase in cash flows reflecting lower prepaid tax balances in 2011 resulting from both a refund received from the Internal Revenue Service in 2011 for tax overpayments made in 2010 as well as the application of a portion of the aforementioned overpayments to 2011 quarterly estimated tax payments; A $71.5 million increase in cash flow due to higher cash collections in the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 reflecting the collection of fees billed in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first half of 2011 when there was strong growth in rated issuance volumes within CFG, particularly in high yield corporate debt and bank loans. A decline in rated issuance volumes in the second half of 2011 resulted in steeper declines in accounts receivable balances in 2011 compared to 2010. Approximately 25% and 21% of the Companys accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, represent unbilled receivables which primarily reflect certain annual fees in MIS which are invoiced in arrears; An approximate $65 million decrease in cash flows reflecting higher incentive compensation payments made in 2011 compared to the prior year. The higher payouts in 2011 reflect greater achievement against targeted results in 2010 as compared to achievement against targets in 2009. Additionally, the decrease reflects a profit sharing contribution paid to eligible employees of the Company in 2011 which was based on the Companys diluted EPS growth from 2009 to 2010. There was no such contribution made in 2010; A decrease in cash flow of approximately $26 million relating to contributions and payments made by the Company to its funded and unfunded U.S. DBPPs and its U.S. other post retirement plans in 2011; The remaining decrease in cash flows of approximately $13 million is due to changes in various other assets and liabilities. Year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009: The $9.5 million increase in net cash flows provided by operating activities resulted from an increase in net income of $106.3 million, which was partially offset by the following: A $27.1 million reduction in cash flow related to a non cash benefit from deferred income taxes primarily related to basis differences on non U.S. earnings that are permanently reinvested as well as accruals for legal and litigation related costs; A $39.5 million reduction in cash flow due to changes in year to date accounts receivable balances from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 compared to the same periods in 2010. The higher accounts receivable balances in 2010 reflect stronger fundamental ratings issuance in the fourth quarter of 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009 as well as timing of billings for certain software maintenance fees within the MA segment; An approximate $108 million reduction in cash flows reflecting higher prepaid tax balances in 2010, which are included in other current assets, resulting from higher than anticipated estimated tax payments in excess of required amounts; A $51.8 million increase in cash flows from UTBs primarily related to a $51 million payment in 2009 for the settlement of a tax audit for the 2001 2007 tax years; MOODYS 2011 10 K 49 Table of Contents An approximate $29 million increase in cash flows reflecting higher incentive compensation accruals as compared to the prior year, which are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. This increase reflects greater achievement against targeted results in 2010 compared to achievement against targeted results in the prior year and an accrual for a profit sharing contribution based on the Companys diluted EPS growth over 2009. Net cash used in investing activities Year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010: Net cash used in investing activities in 2011 increased $38.8 million compared to the prior year period with the 2011 cash outflow primarily reflecting payments made, net of cash acquired, for Copal and B&H. The 2010 amount primarily reflects payments made, net of cash acquired, for the acquisition of CSI in the fourth quarter of 2010. The $11.3 million reduction in capital expenditures compared to 2010 primarily reflects a decrease in costs relating to the build out of the Canary Wharf leased facility in London, England in the current year as the project is now complete. Year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009: Net cash used in investing activities in 2010 increased $135.0 million compared to the prior year period and reflected payments made, net of cash acquired, for the acquisition of CSI in the fourth quarter of 2010 of $148.6 million. The $11.7 million reduction in capital expenditures compared to 2009 reflects less costs relating to the build out the Canary Wharf leased facility in London, England in the current year as the project nears completion partially offset by higher cash outlays relating to the Companys continued investment in IT infrastructure. Net cash used in financing activities Year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010: The $176.4 million increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily attributed to: A $110.2 million increase in treasury shares repurchased compared to 2010; Higher dividends paid of $22.4 million due to an increase in the March 2011 payout reflecting an increase in the Companys quarterly dividend from 10.5 cents to 11.5 cents per share of Moodys common stock as well as an increase from 11.5 cents per share to 14 cents per share for the June, September and December 2011 payout; Proceeds received in August 2010 of $496.9 million relating to the issuance of the 2010 Senior Notes; Partially offset by: A $443.6 million decrease in net repayments on short term borrowings under the Companys CP program. The Company had paid all outstanding CP Notes during 2010 and has no borrowings outstanding under the CP program or the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2011. Year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009: The $107.5 million decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily attributed to: Proceeds received of $496.9 million relating to the issuance of the 2010 Senior Notes in August 2010; Partially offset by: A $223.6 million increase in treasury shares repurchased. There were no share repurchases in 2009 as the Company instead utilized its operating cash flow to repay outstanding borrowings; A $169.6 million increase in net repayments in short term borrowings under the Companys CP program and revolving credit facility. Cash held in non U.S. jurisdictions The Companys aggregate cash and cash equivalents of $760.0 million at December 31, 2011 consisted of approximately $550 million located outside of the U.S. The cash held in the Companys non U.S. operations contains approximately $438 million in entities whose undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested in the Companys foreign operations. Accordingly, the Company has not provided deferred income taxes on these indefinitely reinvested earnings. A future distribution or change in assertion regarding reinvestment by the foreign subsidiaries relating to these earnings could result in additional tax liability to the Company. It is not practicable to determine the amount of the potential additional tax liability due to complexities in the tax laws and in the hypothetical calculations that would have to be made. The Company manages both its U.S and international cash flow to maintain sufficient liquidity in all regions to effectively meet its operating needs. 50 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents Future Cash Requirements The Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to meet its cash requirements and expects to have positive operating cash flow for the next twelve months. Cash requirements for periods beyond the next twelve months will depend, among other things, on the Companys profitability and its ability to manage working capital requirements. The Company may also borrow from various sources. The Company remains committed to using its strong cash flow to create value for shareholders by investing in growing areas of the business, reinvesting in ratings quality initiatives, making selective acquisitions in related businesses, repurchasing stock and paying a dividend, all in the manner consistent with maintaining sufficient liquidity. In December of 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share of Moodys common stock, payable on March 10, 2012 to shareholders of a record at the close of business on February 20, 2012. The continued payment of dividends at this rate, or at all, is subject to the discretion of the Board. Additionally, the Company expects to continue share repurchases in 2012 subject to available cash flow, market conditions and other capital allocation decisions. The Company repurchased $333.8 million of shares in the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, Moodys had $0.9 billion of share repurchase authority remaining under its current program, which does not have an established expiration. In January 2012, the Company paid approximately $89 million to New York State for tax assessments, including interest, related to the completion of audits for the years 2004 2010. The Company had accrued for this liability as of December 31, 2011 and thus the payment is not expected to have a material impact to the provision for income taxes or Net Income in 2012. The Company anticipates making additional payments totaling $30 to $40 million in 2012 relating to the potential settlement of various tax audits. As part of the Copal acquisition in November 2011, Moodys and the non controlling shareholders entered into a put/call arrangement whereby the noncontrolling shareholders have the option to sell the portion of Copal that Moodys does not currently own and Moodys has the option to purchase this portion from the noncontrolling shareholders. The exercise price of this option was valued at $68 million at the time of acquisition and will fluctuate based the financial results of Copal subject to a floor exercise price of approximately $46 million. There is no limit as to the amount of the strike price on the put/call option. It is estimated that the exercise of the put/call arrangement will take place in the next three to six years based on a Monte Carlo simulation. This put/call arrangement expires on the sixth anniversary date of the acquisition. At December 31, 2011, Moodys had $1.2 billion of outstanding debt, which is further described in the Indebtedness section of this MD&A below, with $1.0 billion of additional capacity available. Principal payments on the 2008 Term Loan commenced in September 2010 and will continue through its maturity in accordance with the schedule of payments outlined in the Indebtedness section of this MD&A below. On February 6, 2008, the Company entered into a 17.5 year operating lease agreement to occupy six floors of an office tower located in the Canary Wharf district of London, England. The total base rent of the Canary Wharf Lease over its 17.5 year term is approximately 134 million GBP, and the Company began making base rent payments in 2011. In addition to the base rent payments the Company will be obligated to pay certain customary amounts for its share of operating expenses and tax obligations. The total remaining lease payments as of December 31, 2011 are approximately 130 million GBP, of which approximately 7 million GBP will be paid in the next twelve months. On October 20, 2006, the Company entered into an operating lease agreement with 7 World Trade Center, LLC for 589,945 square feet of an office building located at 7WTC at 250 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, which is serving as Moodys headquarters. The 7WTC Lease has an initial term of 21 years with a total of 20 years of renewal options. The total base rent of 7WTC Lease over its initial 21 year term is approximately $536 million including rent credits from the World Trade Center Rent Reduction Program promulgated by the Empire State Development Corporation. On March 28, 2007, the 7WTC lease agreement was amended for the Company to lease an additional 78,568 square feet at 7WTC. The additional base rent is approximately $106 million over a 20 year term. The total remaining lease payments as of December 31, 2011, including the aforementioned rent credits, are approximately $536 million, of which approximately $29 million will be paid during the next twelve months. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company anticipates making contributions of $17.5 million to its funded pension plan and anticipates making payments of $3.0 million to its unfunded U.S. pension plans and $0.8 million to its other U.S. post retirement plans. MOODYS 2011 10 K 51 Table of Contents INDEBTEDNESS The following table summarizes total indebtedness: December 31, 2011 2010 2007 Facility $ $ Commercial paper Notes payable: Series 2005 1 Notes due 2015, including fair value of interest rate swap of $11.5 million at 2011 and $(3.7) million at 2010 311.5 296.3 Series 2007 1 Notes due in 2017 300.0 300.0 2010 Senior Notes, due 2020, net of unamortized discount of $2.7 million and $3.0 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively 497.3 497.0 2008 Term Loan, various payments through 2013 135.0 146.3 Total debt 1,243.8 1,239.6 Current portion (71.3 ) (11.3 ) Total long term debt $ 1,172.5 $ 1,228.3 2007 Facility On September 28, 2007, the Company entered into a $1.0 billion five year senior, unsecured revolving credit facility, expiring in September 2012. The 2007 Facility will serve, in part, to support the Companys CP Program described below. Interest on borrowings is payable at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a premium that can range from 16.0 to 40.0 basis points of the outstanding borrowing amount depending on the Debt/EBITDA ratio. The Company also pays quarterly facility fees, regardless of borrowing activity under the 2007 Facility. The quarterly fees for the 2007 Facility can range from 4.0 to 10.0 basis points per annum of the facility amount, depending on the Companys Debt/EBITDA ratio. The Company also pays a utilization fee of 5.0 basis points on borrowings outstanding when the aggregate amount outstanding exceeds 50% of the total facility. The 2007 Facility contains certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreement. The 2007 Facility also contains financial covenants that, among other things, require the Company to maintain a Debt/EBITDA ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. Commercial Paper On October 3, 2007, the Company entered into a private placement commercial paper program under which the Company may issue CP notes up to a maximum amount of $1.0 billion. Amounts available under the CP Program may be re borrowed. The CP Program is supported by the Companys 2007 Facility. The maturities of the CP Notes will vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. The CP Notes are sold at a discount from par or, alternatively, sold at par and bear interest at rates that will vary based upon market conditions at the time of issuance. The rates of interest will depend on whether the CP Notes will be a fixed or floating rate. The interest on a floating rate may be based on the following: (a) certificate of deposit rate; (b) commercial paper rate; (c) the federal funds rate; (d) the LIBOR; (e) prime rate; (f) Treasury rate; or (g) such other base rate as may be specified in a supplement to the private placement agreement. The CP Program contains certain events of default including, among other things: non payment of principal, interest or fees; entrance into any form of moratorium; and bankruptcy and insolvency events, subject in certain instances to cure periods. Notes Payable On November 4, 2011, in connection with the acquisition of Copal, a subsidiary of the Company issued a $14.2 million non interest bearing note to the sellers which represented a portion of the consideration transferred to acquire the Copal entities. If a seller subsequently transfers to the Company all of its shares, the Company must repay the seller its proportion of the principal on the later of (i) the fourth anniversary date of the note or (ii) within a time frame set forth in the acquisition agreement relating to the resolution of certain income tax uncertainties pertaining to the transaction. Otherwise, the Company must repay any amount outstanding on the earlier of (i) two business days subsequent to the exercise of the put/call option to acquire the remaining shares of Copal of (ii) the tenth anniversary date of the issuance of the note. The Company has the right to offset payment of the note against certain indemnification assets associated with UTPs related to the acquisition, which are more fully discussed in Note 7. Accordingly, the Company has offset the liability for this note against the indemnification asset, thus no balance for this note is carried on the Companys consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011. In the event that the Company would not be required to settle amounts related 52 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents to the UTPs, the Company would be required to pay the sellers the principal in accordance with the note agreement. The Company may prepay the note in accordance with certain terms set forth in the acquisition agreement. On August 19, 2010, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes in a public offering. The 2010 Senior Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.50% and mature on September 1, 2020. Interest on the 2010 Senior Notes will be due semi annually on September 1 and March 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2011. The Company may prepay the 2010 Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a Make Whole Amount. Additionally, at the option of the holders of the notes, the Company may be required to purchase all or a portion of the notes upon occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, as defined in the Indenture, at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase. The Indenture contains covenants that limit the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things, incur or create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, the Indenture contains a covenant that limits the ability of the Company to consolidate or merge with another entity or to sell all or substantially all of its assets to another entity. The Indenture contains customary default provisions. In addition, an event of default will occur if the Company or certain of its subsidiaries fail to pay the principal of any indebtedness (as defined in the Indenture) when due at maturity in an aggregate amount of $50 million or more, or a default occurs that results in the acceleration of the maturity of the Companys or certain of its subsidiaries indebtedness in an aggregate amount of $50 million or more. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an event of default under the Indenture, the notes may become immediately due and payable either automatically or by the vote of the holders of more than 25% of the aggregate principal amount of all of the notes then outstanding. On September 7, 2007, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.06% Series 2007 1 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2017 pursuant to the 2007 Agreement. The Series 2007 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 6.06%, payable semi annually on March 7 and September 7. Under the terms of the 2007 Agreement, the Company may, from time to time within five years, in its sole discretion, issue additional series of senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of up to $500.0 million pursuant to one or more supplements to the 2007 Agreement. The Company may prepay the Series 2007 1 Notes, in whole or in part, at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest and a Make Whole Amount. The 2007 Agreement contains covenants that limit the ability of the Company, and certain of its subsidiaries to, among other things: enter into transactions with affiliates, dispose of assets, incur or create liens, enter into any sale leaseback transactions, or merge with any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease substantially all of its assets. The Company must also not permit its Debt/EBITDA ratio to exceed 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. On September 30, 2005, the Company issued and sold through a private placement transaction, $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of its Series 2005 1 Senior Unsecured Notes due 2015 pursuant to the 2005 Agreement. The Series 2005 1 Notes have a ten year term and bear interest at an annual rate of 4.98%, payable semi annually on March 30 and September 30. Proceeds from the sale of the Series 2005 1 Notes were used to refinance $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Companys outstanding 7.61% senior notes which matured on September 30, 2005. In the event that Moodys pays all, or part, of the Series 2005 1 Notes in advance of their maturity, such prepayment will be subject to a Make Whole Amount. The Series 2005 1 Notes are subject to certain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, without the approval of the lenders, to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur liens, as defined in the related agreements. 2008 Term Loan On May 7, 2008, Moodys entered into a five year, $150.0 million senior unsecured term loan with several lenders. Proceeds from the loan were used to pay off a portion of the CP outstanding. Interest on borrowings under the 2008 Term Loan is payable quarterly at rates that are based on LIBOR plus a margin that can range from 125 basis points to 175 basis points depending on the Companys Debt/EBITDA ratio. The outstanding borrowings shall amortize in accordance with the schedule of payments set forth in the 2008 Term Loan outlined in the table below. The 2008 Term Loan contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of the Company to engage or to permit its subsidiaries to engage in mergers, consolidations, asset sales, transactions with affiliates and sale leaseback transactions or to incur, or permit its subsidiaries to incur, liens, in each case, subject to certain exceptions and limitations. The 2008 Term Loan also limits the amount of debt that subsidiaries of the Company may incur. In addition, the 2008 Term Loan contains a financial covenant that requires the Company to maintain a Debt/EBITDA ratio of not more than 4.0 to 1.0 at the end of any fiscal quarter. MOODYS 2011 10 K 53 Table of Contents The principal payments due on the Companys long term borrowings for each of the next five years are presented in the table below: 2008 Term Loan Series 2005 1 Notes Total Year Ending December 31, 2012 $ 71.3 $ $ 71.3 2013 63.7 63.7 2014 2015 300.0 300.0 2016 Total $ 135.0 $ 300.0 $ 435.0 In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $300 million which will convert the fixed rate of interest on the Series 2005 1 Notes to a floating LIBOR based interest rate. Also, on May 7, 2008, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $150 million to protect against fluctuations in the LIBOR based variable interest rate on the 2008 Term Loan. Both of these interest rate swaps are more fully discussed in Note 5 above. INTEREST EXPENSE, NET The following table summarizes the components of interest as presented in the consolidated statements of operations: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Income $ 5.3 $ 3.1 $ 2.5 Expense on borrowings (65.5 ) (52.2 ) (45.5 ) UTBs and other tax related interest (8.7 ) (7.7 ) 1.6 Legacy Tax (a) 3.7 2.5 6.5 Interest capitalized 3.1 1.8 1.5 Total $ (62.1 ) $ (52.5 ) $ (33.4 ) Interest paid $ 67.2 $ 44.0 $ 46.1 (a) Represents a reduction of accrued interest related to the favorable resolution of Legacy Tax Matters, further discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. Net interest expense of $33.4 million in 2009 reflects a reduction of approximately $12 million related to tax and tax related liabilities. At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with all covenants contained within all of the debt agreements. In addition to the covenants described above, the 2007 Facility, the 2005 Agreement, the 2007 Agreement, the 2010 Senior Notes and the 2008 Term Loan contain cross default provisions whereby default under one of the aforementioned debt instruments could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those instruments to be immediately due and payable. The Companys long term debt, including the current portion, is recorded at cost except for the Series 2005 1 Notes which are carried at cost adjusted for the fair value of an interest rate swap used to hedge the fair value of the note. The fair value and carrying value of the Companys long term debt as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Series 2005 1 Notes* $ 311.5 $ 316.5 $ 296.3 $ 310.6 Series 2007 1 Notes 300.0 332.7 300.0 321.3 2010 Senior Notes 497.3 525.6 497.0 492.1 2008 Term Loan 135.0 135.0 146.3 146.3 Total $ 1,243.8 $ 1,309.8 $ 1,239.6 $ 1,270.3 * The carrying amount includes an $11.5 million and ($3.7) million fair value adjustment on an interest rate hedge at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 54 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents The fair value of the Companys 2010 Senior Notes is based on quoted market prices. The fair value of the remaining long term debt, which is not publicly traded, is estimated using discounted cash flows based on prevailing interest rates available to the Company for borrowings with similar maturities. Management may consider pursuing additional long term financing when it is appropriate in light of cash requirements for operations, share repurchases and other strategic opportunities which would result in higher financing costs. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2011, Moodys did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as special purpose or variable interest entities where Moodys is the primary beneficiary, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, Moodys is not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if it had engaged in such relationships. Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due under the Companys contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011: Payments Due by Period (in millions) Total Less Than 1Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Over 5 Years Indebtedness(1) $ 1,638.5 $ 132.3 $ 176.3 $ 401.6 $ 928.3 Operating lease obligations 851.7 73.6 134.1 106.2 537.8 Purchase obligations 124.3 54.0 69.8 0.5 Contingent consideration related to acquisitions(2) 2.5 2.5 Pension obligations(3) 106.1 21.3 9.8 11.4 63.6 Payment of UTPs(4) 119.9 119.9 Total(5) $ 2,843.0 $ 401.1 $ 390.0 $ 522.2 $ 1,529.7 (1) Reflects principal payments, related interest and applicable fees due on the 2008 Term Loan, the Series 2005 1 Notes, the Series 2007 1 Notes, the 2010 Senior Notes, borrowings under the CP Program and the 2007 Facility, as described in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements (2) Reflects a $2.5 million contingent cash payment related to the November 18, 2010 acquisition of CSI Global Education, Inc. The cash payment is dependent upon the achievement of a certain contractual milestone by January 2016 (3) Reflects projected benefit payments for the next ten years relating to the Companys U.S. unfunded Post Retirement Benefit Plans described in Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements (4) Reflects the projected settlement of UTPs in various tax jurisdictions (5) The table above does not include the Companys net long term tax liabilities of $138.2 million relating to UTP and Legacy Tax Matters, since the expected cash outflow of such amounts by period cannot be reasonably estimated. The table above does not include the following relating to the acquisition of Copal; (i) the $14.2 million note payable as described in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, (ii) the $6.8 million contingent consideration obligation and the (iii) the $60.5 million Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest, as the expected cash outflow of such amounts by period cannot be reasonably estimated. 2012 OUTLOOK Moodys outlook for 2012 is based on assumptions about many macroeconomic and capital market factors, including interest rates, corporate profitability and business investment spending, merger and acquisition activity, and consumer borrowing and securitization. There is an important degree of uncertainty surrounding these assumptions and, if actual conditions differ from these assumptions, Moodys results for the year may differ materially from the current outlook. The Companys guidance assumes foreign currency translation at end of quarter exchange rates. For Moodys overall, the Company expects full year 2012 revenue to grow in the high single to low double digit percent range. Full year 2012 expenses are also projected to increase in the high single to low double digit percent range. Full year 2012 operating margin is projected to be approximately 39 percent. The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 33 percent. The Company expects diluted earnings per share for full year 2012 in the range of $2.62 to $2.72. For the global MIS business, revenue for full year 2012 is expected to increase in the mid single digit percent range. Within the U.S., MIS revenue is expected to increase in the low double digit percent range, while non U.S. revenue is expected to be about flat. Corporate finance revenue is forecasted to grow in the high single digit percent range. Revenue from each of structured finance and financial institutions is projected to be flat to slightly down, while public, project and infrastructure finance revenue is expected to increase in the low teens percent range. For MA, full year 2012 revenue is expected to increase in the high teens percent range both in the U.S. and outside the U.S. Revenue growth is projected in the mid single digit percent range for research, data and analytics and in the low 20s percent range for risk MOODYS 2011 10 K 55 Table of Contents management software, reflecting growth in the core business as well as the December 2011 acquisition of Barrie & Hibbert. Professional services revenue is projected to grow by approximately 70%, inclusive of revenue from the late 2011 acquisition of a majority stake in Copal Partners and continued growth in the Companys legacy businesses. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Adopted: In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 06, Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements. The standard requires disclosure regarding transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 classifications within the fair value hierarchy as well as requiring further detail of activity within the Level 3 category of the fair value hierarchy. The standard also requires disclosures regarding the fair value for each class of assets and liabilities, which is a subset of assets or liabilities within a line item in a companys balance sheet. Additionally, the standard requires further disclosures surrounding inputs and valuation techniques used in fair value measurements. The disclosures and clarifications of existing disclosures set forth in this ASU are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the additional disclosures regarding Level 3 fair value measurements, for which the effective date is for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2010. The Company has fully adopted all provisions of this ASU as of January 1, 2011 and the implementation did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010 29, Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations. The objective of this ASU is to address diversity in practice regarding proforma disclosures for revenue and earnings of the acquired entity. The amendments in this ASU specify that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The amendments in this ASU also expand the supplemental pro forma disclosures under ASC Topic 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The Company will conform to the disclosure requirements set forth in this ASU for any future business combinations for which the impact to the consolidated statement of operations would be material. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 08, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350). The objective of this ASU is to simplify how entities test goodwill for impairment. This ASU permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test described in Topic 350 of the ASC. The more likely than not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. Prior to the issuance of this ASU, an entity was required to test goodwill for impairment, on at least an annual basis, by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill (step one). If the fair value of a reporting unit was less than its carrying amount, then the second step of the test would be performed to measure the amount of the impairment loss, if any. Under the amendments in this ASU, an entity is not required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted this ASU in the fourth quarter of 2011 and applied its provisions in assessing the potential goodwill impairment which is performed at least annually as of November 30. Not yet adopted: In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The objective of this ASU is to achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The amendments in this ASU change the wording used to describe current requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for financial statement disclosure about fair value measurements. Some of the amendments in the ASU clarify the FASBs intent or change a particular principle or requirement pertaining to the application of existing fair value measurement requirements or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this ASU are required to be applied prospectively and are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is not permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, of the implementation of this ASU on its consolidated financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income. Under the amendments in this ASU, an entity has two options for presenting its total comprehensive income: to show its components along with the components of net income in a single continuous statement, or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendments in this ASU are required to be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011 12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which indefinitely defers the 56 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents requirement in ASU No. 2011 05 to present on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from OCI to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of OCI are presented. All other provisions of this ASU, which are to be applied retrospectively, are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company intends to adopt all provisions that were not deferred beginning with its Form 10Q for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The adoption of this ASU will not have any impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements other than revising the presentation of the components of comprehensive income. CONTINGENCIES From time to time, Moodys is involved in legal and tax proceedings, governmental investigations, claims and litigation that are incidental to the Companys business, including claims based on ratings assigned by MIS. Moodys is also subject to ongoing tax audits in the normal course of business. Management periodically assesses the Companys liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters based upon the latest information available. Moodys discloses material pending legal proceedings pursuant to SEC rules and other pending matters as it may determine to be appropriate. Following the events in the U.S. subprime residential mortgage sector and the credit markets more broadly over the last several years, MIS and other credit rating agencies are the subject of intense scrutiny, increased regulation, ongoing investigation, and civil litigation. Legislative, regulatory and enforcement entities around the world are considering additional legislation, regulation and enforcement actions, including with respect to MISs compliance with newly imposed regulatory standards. Moodys has received subpoenas and inquiries from states attorneys general and other governmental authorities and is responding to such investigations and inquiries. In addition, the Company is facing litigation from market participants relating to the performance of MIS rated securities. Although Moodys in the normal course experiences such litigation, the volume and cost of defending such litigation has significantly increased following the events in the U.S. subprime residential mortgage sector and the credit markets more broadly over the last several years. On June 27, 2008, the Brockton Contributory Retirement System, a purported shareholder of the Companys securities, filed a purported shareholder derivative complaint on behalf of the Company against its directors and certain senior officers, and the Company as nominal defendant, in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York. The plaintiff asserts various causes of action relating to the named defendants oversight of MISs ratings of RMBS and constant proportion debt obligations, and their participation in the alleged public dissemination of false and misleading information about MISs ratings practices and or a failure to implement internal procedures and controls to prevent the alleged wrongdoing. The plaintiff seeks compensatory damages, restitution, disgorgement of profits and other equitable relief. On July 2, 2008, Thomas R. Flynn, a purported shareholder of the Companys securities, filed a similar purported shareholder derivative complaint on behalf of the Company against its directors and certain senior officers, and the Company as nominal defendant, in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, asserting similar claims and seeking the same relief. The cases have been consolidated and plaintiffs filed an amended consolidated complaint in November 2008. The Company removed the consolidated action to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in December 2008. In January 2009, the plaintiffs moved to remand the case to the Supreme Court of the State of New York, which the Company opposed. On February 23, 2010, the court issued an opinion remanding the case to the Supreme Court of New York. On October 30, 2008, the Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System, a purported shareholder of the Companys securities, also filed a shareholder derivative complaint on behalf of the Company against its directors and certain officers, and the Company as a nominal defendant, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. This complaint also asserts various causes of action relating to the Companys ratings of RMBS, CDO and constant proportion debt obligations, and named defendants participation in the alleged public dissemination of false and misleading information about MISs ratings practices and or a failure to implement internal procedures and controls to prevent the alleged wrongdoing. On December 9, 2008, Rena Nadoff, a purported shareholder of the Company, filed a shareholder derivative complaint on behalf of the Company against its directors and its CEO, and the Company as a nominal defendant, in the Supreme Court of the State of New York. The complaint asserts a claim for breach of fiduciary duty in connection with alleged overrating of asset backed securities and underrating of municipal securities. On October 20, 2009, the Company moved to dismiss or stay the action in favor of related federal litigation. On January 26, 2010, the court entered a stipulation and order, submitted jointly by the parties, staying the Nadoff litigation pending coordination and prosecution of similar claims in the above and below described federal derivative actions. On July 6, 2009, W. A. Sokolowski, a purported shareholder of the Company, filed a purported shareholder derivative complaint on behalf of the Company against its directors and current and former officers, and the Company as a nominal defendant, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint asserts claims relating to alleged mismanagement of the Companys processes for rating structured finance transactions, alleged insider trading and causing the Company to buy back its own stock at artificially inflated prices. Two purported class action complaints have been filed by purported purchasers of the Companys securities against the Company and certain of its senior officers, asserting claims under the federal securities laws. The first was filed by Raphael Nach in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on July 19, 2007. The second was filed by Teamsters Local 282 Pension Trust Fund in the U.S. MOODYS 2011 10 K 57 Table of Contents District Court for the Southern District of New York on September 26, 2007. Both actions have been consolidated into a single proceeding entitled In re Moodys Corporation Securities Litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. On June 27, 2008, a consolidated amended complaint was filed, purportedly on behalf of all purchasers of the Companys securities during the period February 3, 2006 through October 24, 2007. Plaintiffs allege that the defendants issued false and or misleading statements concerning the Companys business conduct, business prospects, business conditions and financial results relating primarily to MISs ratings of structured finance products including RMBS, CDO and constant proportion debt obligations. The plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of compensatory damages and their reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with the case. The Company moved for dismissal of the consolidated amended complaint in September 2008. On February 23, 2009, the court issued an opinion dismissing certain claims and sustaining others. On January 22, 2010, plaintiffs moved to certify a class of individuals who purchased Moodys Corporation common stock between February 3, 2006 and October 24, 2007, which the Company opposed. On March 31, 2011, the court issued an opinion denying plaintiffs motion to certify the proposed class. On April 14, 2011, plaintiffs filed a petition in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit seeking discretionary permission to appeal the decision. The Company filed its response to the petition on April 25, 2011. On July 20, 2011, the Second Circuit issued an order denying plaintiffs petition for leave to appeal. For claims, litigation and proceedings not related to income taxes, where it is both probable that a liability is expected to be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, the Company records liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and periodically adjusts these as appropriate. In other instances, because of uncertainties related to the probable outcome and or the amount or range of loss, management does not record a liability but discloses the contingency if significant. As additional information becomes available, the Company adjusts its assessments and estimates of such matters accordingly. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, regulatory, enforcement and similar matters and contingencies, particularly where the claimants seek large or indeterminate damages or where the parties assert novel legal theories or the matters involve a large number of parties, the Company cannot predict what the eventual outcome of the pending matters will be or the timing of any resolution of such matters. The Company also cannot predict the impact (if any) that any such matters may have on how its business is conducted, on its competitive position or on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. As the process to resolve the pending matters referred to above progresses, management will continue to review the latest information available and assess its ability to predict the outcome of such matters and the effects, if any, on its operations and financial condition. However, in light of the inherent uncertainties involved in these matters, the large or indeterminate damages sought in some of them and the novel theories of law asserted, an estimate of the range of possible losses cannot be made at this time. For income tax matters, the Company employs the prescribed methodology of Topic 740 of the ASC which requires a company to first determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that a tax position will be sustained based on its technical merits as of the reporting date, assuming that taxing authorities will examine the position and have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets this more likely than not threshold is then measured and recognized at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely to be realized upon effective settlement with a taxing authority. Legacy Tax Matters Moodys continues to have exposure to potential liabilities arising from Legacy Tax Matters. As of December 31, 2011, Moodys has recorded liabilities for Legacy Tax Matters totaling $54.6 million. This includes liabilities and accrued interest due to New D&B arising from the 2000 Distribution Agreement. It is possible that the ultimate liability for Legacy Tax Matters could be greater than the liabilities recorded by the Company, which could result in additional charges that may be material to Moodys future reported results, financial position and cash flows. The following summary of the relationships among Moodys, New D&B and their predecessor entities is important in understanding the Companys exposure to the Legacy Tax Matters. In November 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into three separate public companies: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, ACNielsen Corporation and Cognizant Corporation. In June 1998, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation separated into two separate public companies: Old D&B and R.H. Donnelley Corporation. During 1998, Cognizant separated into two separate public companies: IMS Health Incorporated and Nielsen Media Research, Inc. In September 2000, Old D&B separated into two separate public companies: New D&B and Moodys. Old D&B and its predecessors entered into global tax planning initiatives in the normal course of business. These initiatives are subject to normal review by tax authorities. Old D&B and its predecessors also entered into a series of agreements covering the sharing of any liabilities for payment of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from unfavorable IRS determinations on certain tax matters, and certain other potential tax liabilities, all as described in such agreements. Further, in connection with the 2000 Distribution and pursuant to the terms of the 2000 Distribution Agreement, New D&B and Moodys have agreed on the financial responsibility for any potential liabilities related to these Legacy Tax Matters. At the time of the 2000 Distribution, New D&B paid Moodys $55.0 million for 50% of certain anticipated future tax benefits through 2012. In the event that these tax benefits are not claimed or otherwise not realized by New D&B, or there is an IRS audit of New D&B 58 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents impacting these tax benefits, Moodys would be required to repay to New D&B an amount equal to the discounted value of its share of the related future tax benefits as well as its share of any tax liability incurred by New D&B. In June 2011, the statute of limitations for New D&B relating to the 2004 tax year expired. As a result, in the second quarter of 2011, Moodys recorded a reduction of accrued interest expense of $2.8 million ($1.7 million, net of tax) and an increase in other non operating income of $6.4 million, relating to amounts due to New D&B. As of December 31, 2011, Moodys liability with respect to this matter totaled $52.6 million. Additionally, in April 2011, Moodys received a refund of $0.9 million ($0.6 million, net of tax) for interest assessed related to pre spinoff tax years. Coupled with the $6.4 million noted above (and related interest of $1.7 million), net legacy tax benefits were $8.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 of which $7 million was deemed to be unusual in nature. In 2005, settlement agreements were executed with the IRS with respect to certain Legacy Tax Matters related to the years 1989 1990 and 1993 1996. With respect to these settlements, Moodys and New D&B believed that IMS Health and NMR did not pay their full share of the liability to the IRS under the terms of the applicable separation agreements between the parties. Moodys and New D&B subsequently paid these amounts to the IRS and commenced arbitration proceedings against IMS Health and NMR to resolve this dispute. Pursuant to these arbitration proceedings, the Company received $10.8 million ($6.5 million as a reduction of interest expense and $4.3 million as a reduction of tax expense) in 2009. The aforementioned settlement payment resulted in net income benefits of $8.2 million in 2009. The Company continues to carry a $2 million liability for this matter. In 2006, New D&B and Moodys each deposited $39.8 million with the IRS in order to stop the accrual of statutory interest on potential tax deficiencies with respect to the 1997 through 2002 tax years. In 2007, New D&B and Moodys requested a return of that deposit. The IRS applied a portion of the deposit in satisfaction of an assessed deficiency and returned the balance to the Company. Moodys subsequently pursued a refund for a portion of the outstanding amount. In May 2010, the IRS refunded $5.2 million to the Company for the 1997 tax year, which included interest of approximately $2.5 million resulting in an after tax benefit of $4.6 million. Forward Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10 K are forward looking statements and are based on future expectations, plans and prospects for the Companys business and operations that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Such statements involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. Those statements appear at various places throughout this annual report on Form 10 K, including in the sections entitled 2012 Outlook and Contingencies under Item 7. MD&A, commencing on page 29 of this annual report on Form 10 K, under Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3, of this Form 10 K, and elsewhere in the context of statements containing the words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, will, predict, potential, continue, strategy, aspire, target, forecast, project, estimate, should, could, may and similar expressions or words and variations thereof relating to the Companys views on future events, trends and contingencies. Stockholders and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements. The forward looking statements and other information are made as of the date of this annual report on Form 10 K, and the Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly supplement, update or revise such statements on a going forward basis, whether as a result of subsequent developments, changed expectations or otherwise. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is identifying examples of factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from those indicated by these forward looking statements. Those factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the current world wide credit market disruptions and economic slowdown, which is affecting and could continue to affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and or global capital markets; other matters that could affect the volume of debt and other securities issued in domestic and or global capital markets, including credit quality concerns, changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets; the uncertain effectiveness and possible collateral consequences of U.S. and foreign government initiatives to respond to the economic slowdown; concerns in the marketplace affecting our credibility or otherwise affecting market perceptions of the integrity or utility of independent agency ratings; the introduction of competing products or technologies by other companies; pricing pressure from competitors and or customers; the impact of regulation as an NRSRO, the potential for new U.S., state and local legislation and regulations, including provisions in the recently enacted Financial Reform Act and anticipated regulations resulting from that law; the potential for increased competition and regulation in the EU and other foreign jurisdictions; exposure to litigation related to our rating opinions, as well as any other litigation to which the Company may be subject from time to time; provisions in the Financial Reform Act legislation, and potential EU regulations, modifying the pleading and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies in a manner adverse to rating agencies; the possible loss of key employees; failures or malfunctions of our operations and infrastructure; the outcome of any review by controlling tax authorities of the Companys global tax planning initiatives; the outcome of those Legacy Tax Matters and legal contingencies that relate to the Company, its predecessors and their affiliated companies for which Moodys has assumed portions of the financial responsibility; the ability of the Company to successfully integrate acquired businesses; currency and foreign exchange volatility; and a decline in the demand for credit risk management tools by financial institutions. These factors, risks and uncertainties as well as other MOODYS 2011 10 K 59 Table of Contents risks and uncertainties that could cause Moodys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements are described in greater detail under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report on Form 10 K, and in other filings made by the Company from time to time with the SEC or in materials incorporated herein or therein. Stockholders and investors are cautioned that the occurrence of any of these factors, risks and uncertainties may cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, expressed, projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements, which could have a material and adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. New factors may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict new factors, nor can the Company assess the potential effect of any new factors on it. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption Market Risk in Part II, Item 7 on page 48 of this annual report on Form 10 K. 60 MOODYS 2011 10 K Table of Contents 
 
