FILE:RTN/RTN-8K-20030829174230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 29, 2003, Raytheon Company issued a press release announcing its commencement of a legal action regarding certain Exelon Corporation construction projects. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: August 29, 2003
 
RAYTHEON COMPANY
 
By:
/s/    J B. S
AY
TEPHENS
      Jay B. Stephens
      Senior Vice President and
      General Counsel
 

 
 
News release
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Contact:
James Fetig
781-860-2386
 
Raytheon Legal Action Involving Exelon Projects
 
LEXINGTONMass., (Aug. 29, 2003)  Raytheon Company (NYSE: RTN) today filed a lawsuit in Suffolk County Superior Court in Massachusetts seeking to protect Raytheon's rights in connection with the Exelon Mystic and Exelon Fore River power plant projects in Massachusetts.
,
 
Last month, Raytheon transferred care, custody, and operational control of Fore River, the last of the two power plant projects to Exelon. Shortly thereafter, Exelon stated that it was exiting the projects and had commenced the process of an orderly transition of ownership of the two projects. Exelon also announced that its project banks would forebear on a default until Aug. 29, 2003. Since Exelon's announcements, Raytheon has continued to perform final close-out work on the projects.
 
The purpose of Raytheon's lawsuit is to obtain adequate assurances of payment and to protect the Company's rights under its support agreements.
 
Raytheon Company (NYSE: RTN), with 2002 sales of $16.8 billion, is an industry leader in defense, government and commercial electronics, space, information technology, technical services, and business and special mission aircraft. With headquarters in Lexington, Mass., Raytheon employs more than 76,000 people worldwide.
 


