FILE:RTN/RTN-8K-20050325164314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
 
On March 23, 2005, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Raytheon Company (the "Company") approved the issuance of and lapsing of restrictions on 4,605 shares of restricted stock awarded to Richard A. Goglia, Vice President and Treasurer of the Company. The award, granted to Mr. Goglia in early 2004, provided for up to 6,500 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company to be issued upon the attainment of certain performance goals for the 2004 fiscal year with respect to the operation of the Company's Airline Aviation Services unit. The performance measures included cash flow, planes owned by the Company and pre-tax loss. Shares were withheld to satisfy Mr. Goglia's tax obligations upon the lapsing of restrictions on the restricted stock award.
 
Also on March 23, 2005, the Management Development and Compensation Committee approved relocation benefits for Rebecca R. Rhoads, Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Company. The benefits include financial assistance in selling her current home and purchasing a new home, as well as moving expenses and tax assistance with respect to relocation benefits that are includable in gross income. The benefits are provided pursuant to the Company's Key Employee Relocation Arrangement, a summary of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Also on March 23, 2005, the Management Development and Compensation Committee approved the terms of Pamela A. Wickham's employment arrangement. Ms. Wickham is serving as Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Communications of the Company. A copy of the Letter Agreement with Ms. Wickham, containing compensation and benefits information regarding her employment by the Company, is attached as Exhibit 10.2. The terms of Ms. Wickham's employment arrangement with the Company, terminable by the Company at will, include an annual base salary and a target Results-Based Incentive award (guaranteed for her first year of employment) and participation in the Company's benefit plans and perquisites generally available to other executives of the Company. The Company also will enter into a Change in Control Severance Agreement with Ms. Wickham in the form of the Change in Control Severance Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2005.
 
Also on March 23, 2005, the Management Development and Compensation Committee approved the following awards to Ms. Wickham: (i) 10,000 shares of restricted stock, the restrictions on which will lapse one-third per year over three years; and (ii) a target of 12,000 restricted stock units under the Company's 2005  2007 Long-Term Performance Plan, a part of the 2001 Stock Plan. The units entitle Ms. Wickham to the right to earn shares of common stock or cash or a combination thereof upon the attainment of certain performance goals over a three-year period.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 25, 2005
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Raytheon Company (the "Company") provides the following benefits in the event that an officer or key employee of the Company relocates at the request of the Company. For purposes of this Arrangement, a key employee is defined as an employee who exhibits a critical skill set (either technical or managerial) or has a depth of experience in a critical area that is not easily matched by others. The determination of whether an employee is a key employee is based upon the importance of the employee in the hiring organization's productivity and performance and is a determinant of a business' needs at any given point in time.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
March 4, 2005
 
Ms. Pamela Wickham
350 Sharon Park Drive #S25
Menlo Park, CA 94025
 
Dear Pam,
 
It is my sincere pleasure to extend to you this offer for the position of Vice President, Corporate Affairs & Communications for Raytheon Company reporting to me. You will be a great addition to our Leadership Team. Your position will be an officer of the corporation and, along with the compensation outlined below, is subject to election by the Raytheon Board of Directors.
 
The offer is a base salary of $375,000 annually. The position resides in Raytheon's Global Headquarters in Waltham, Massachusetts.
 
Additional elements of this offer will consist of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pamela Wickham
March 4, 2005
Page 2 of 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enclosed please find our Key Employee Relocation summary that details the relocation allowances you are authorized once you accept this offer of employment. Under our relocation policy you will be eligible for a $5,000 Miscellaneous Expense Allowance (MEA). As a Key Employee, you will also receive a total of three (3) months' salary as a relocation incentive, and a guaranteed offer to purchase your current primary residence, if necessary. Cendant Mobility Services will coordinate your relocation as well as provide comprehensive counseling on all aspects of your relocation. We will have a Cendant representative contact you upon your acceptance of this offer. Should you voluntarily leave the Company within one (1) year of your date of hire, all monies paid to you or on your behalf for relocation related activities will become repayable in full to Raytheon within 30 days of your termination.
Pamela Wickham
March 4, 2005
Page 3 of 5
 
You should be aware that all monies paid by the Company in connection with your relocation must, by law, be included in your gross earnings and will be subject to applicable taxes. However, in recognition of the added federal and state tax obligation resulting from taxable relocation reimbursements, the Company will provide a tax allowance to give substantial relief for these taxes. Please refer to the enclosed relocation policy for these details.
 
This offer is contingent upon your meeting the requirements on the enclosed Minimum Conditions for Hire document. If you believe any of the terms or conditions in this letter are not consistent with your understanding, or if you have any questions, please don't hesitate to contact Keith Peden at his office at 781.522.5097.
 
Acceptance of this offer will be considered an acceptance to all terms and conditions listed in the offer and attachments. Please sign below to indicate your acceptance and return this offer letter to Keith Peden in the enclosed envelope. The duplicate letter is a copy for your records.
 
Pam, I am excited about the potential of you joining the team. I look forward to a swift and favorable response.
 
Pamela Wickham
March 4, 2005
Page 4 of 5
 
 
I hereby accept this offer of employment and agree to the terms and conditions described in this letter. I understand that my acceptance of this offer does not constitute an employment contract and that my employment with Raytheon Company may be terminated, either by my employer or myself at anytime, for any reason, with or without notice.
 
Pamela Wickham
March 4, 2005
Page 5 of 5
 
 
Please read the following information. Sign to signifying your acceptance of the terms and conditions contained within these paragraphs. Please return the Attachment with your signed offer letter.
 
Raytheon has confidence in the loyalty and honesty of its employees. Each employee is responsible for recognizing and avoiding activities, investments or relationships which involve or might appear to involve, or could result in a conflict of interest that might be adverse to the interests on Raytheon. Formal requirements to disclose conflicts of interest are imposed to enable the Company to demonstrate consistency that conflicts of interest are neither permitted nor condoned, and to ensure that proper standards of ethical conduct are maintained by its employees and consultants. Attached is a copy of the and the form that you will be asked to sign. If you have any issues with these documents, please contact me immediately.
Company's Conflict of Interest Policy
Conflict of Interest Certificate and Outside Interests or Activities Disclosure
 
You agree that, as a condition of this offer and your continued employment with Raytheon, any dispute arising between you and Raytheon will be subject to resolution under the provisions of the Raytheon Alternative Dispute Resolution Program. A summary of this program is attached for your review.
 
You represent and warrant that you are free to enter into the Company's employ and that such employment is not in conflict or in any way restricted by agreement or restraint you may have with your current or past employer. You further agree not to disclose any trade secrets or proprietary or confidential information that is the property of any other party now or hereafter in your possession. You represent that you have provided Raytheon copies of all employment, proprietary information, and other restrictive agreements currently in effect to which you are a party.
 


