FILE:RTN/RTN-8K-20060509153521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_____________________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): May 3, 2006
RAYTHEON COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (781) 522-3000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
   
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Board of Directors Compensation
 
On May 3, 2006, the Board of Directors of Raytheon Company (the "Company"), upon the recommendation of the Management Development and Compensation Committee, approved a restricted stock award under the 1997 Nonemployee Directors Restricted Stock Plan (the "Nonemployee Directors Plan") to each non-management director. Each director was awarded 1,738 shares of restricted stock, representing partial payment of his or her annual retainer for service on the Board of Directors of the Company. The restrictions on each restricted stock award will lapse on the date of the 2007 Annual Stockholders' Meeting. The form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 3, 2005. A complete description of the compensation program for non-management directors is contained in the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 29, 2006.
 
Lead Director Compensation
 
Also on May 3, 2006, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Management Development and Compensation Committee, approved a restricted stock award under the Nonemployee Directors Plan to Michael C. Ruettgers, the lead director of the Board of Directors. Mr. Ruettgers was awarded 782 shares of restricted stock, representing partial payment for service as lead director. The restrictions on the restricted stock award will lapse on the date of the 2007 Annual Stockholders' Meeting. A complete description of the lead director's compensation is contained in the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 29, 2006.
 
Long-Term Performance Plan
 
Also on May 3, 2006, stockholders of the Company approved the terms of performance awards under the Long-Term Performance Plan. A summary of the Long-Term Performance Plan was filed as Appendix A to the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 29, 2006 and is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Executive Officer Compensation
 
The Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Management Development and Compensation Committee, granted awards under the 2006 Long-Term Performance Plan to the Chief Executive Officer and the four most highly compensated executive officers (the "Named Executive Officers"), subject to stockholder approval of the terms of the awards as described above. The Management Development and Compensation Committee also granted restricted stock unit awards pursuant to the 2006 Long-Term Performance Plan to a group of senior executives of the Company. The form of Performance Share Award Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
 
 
 
 
 
Each senior executive received a restricted stock unit award entitling the executive to the right to earn shares of common stock or cash at the discretion of the Management Development and Compensation Committee upon the attainment of pre-established performance metrics over the three-year plan period. The performance criteria established for the 2006-2008 Long-Term Performance Plan performance period, which are independent of each other, are based on three metrics and weighted as follows: free cash flow (50%), total shareholder return relative to a peer group (25%) and return on invested capital (25%). The Management Development and Compensation Committee will review the Company's performance in each of the three pre-established metrics and authorize payment in settlement of the awards, if any, in the first quarter of 2009. The Management Development and Compensation Committee established individual awards for each executive based upon an examination of compensation information compiled by an outside consultant from a peer group of public companies of a similar revenue size or that compete in the Company's primary business areas. Each executive received an award with a threshold, target and maximum payout. The Named Executive Officers received the following awards:
 
 
Also on May 3, 2006, the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Management Development and Compensation Committee, approved annual base salaries, targets under the Company's 2006 Results Based Incentive (RBI) Plan, and restricted stock awards under the 2001 Plan for the Named Executive Officers as set forth in the following table. The Named Executive Officers' compensation was unanimously approved by the independent directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) The 2006 salary increases are effective in May 2006.
(2) The Management Development and Compensation Committee adopted performance metrics with respect to the 2006 RBI program on December 14, 2005. A summary of the 2006 RBI program was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 14, 2005.
(3) The restricted stock awards, granted pursuant to the Company's annual long-term incentive compensation program, are effective May 8, 2006 and vest one-third per year on each of the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant.
(4) Mr. Wajsgras' 2006 salary, RBI target and restricted stock award were reported on a Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 21, 2006.
 
 
Also on May 3, 2006, the Board of Directors elected Michael C. Ruettgers to serve as the Lead Director of the Board. The Board also elected each of William R. Spivey, John M. Deutch and Linda G. Stuntz to serve as the Chair of the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Chair of the Governance and Nominating Committee, and the Chair of the Public Affairs Committee, respectively. Ronald L. Skates will continue to serve as the Chair of the Audit Committee. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 9, 2006
RAYTHEON COMPANY
 
By:
    /s/ Jay B. Stephens                                  
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
SUMMARY OF THE LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE PLAN
January 24, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
Form of Performance Share Award Agreement with respect to the 2006  2008 Long-Term Performance Plan
 
THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
 
 
Subject to shareholder approval of the terms of performance awards under the Long-Term Performance Plan, Raytheon Company (the "Company") hereby grants to you, the recipient identified below, an award of stock units with respect to its common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Stock"), pursuant to the Raytheon 2001 Stock Plan (as amended from time to time, the "Plan") on the following terms and conditions:
 
1. Details of Award
 
 
 
 
2. Conditions to Award
Pursuant to this Award, you will be entitled to payment as follows: (i) up to fifty percent (50%) of the Total Target Number of Shares of Stock set forth above based on the Company's cumulative "free cash flow" over the Performance Cycle; (ii) up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the Total Target Number of Shares of Stock set forth above based on the total return to the Company's shareholders (compounded annually), relative to that of its "peers," over the Performance Cycle; and (iii) up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the Total Target Number of Shares of Stock set forth above based on the Company's average "return on invested capital" over the Performance Cycle (each a "metric" and collectively the "metrics"). The precise extent to which the Company will have satisfied the metrics, and any shares of Stock will have been earned, will be determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") as soon as practicable following the close of the Performance Cycle. The total number of shares of Stock that will be issued in the settlement of this Award, based upon the Company's satisfaction of the metrics, will be determined by multiplying the Total Target Number of Shares of Stock by the applicable Target Share Award Multiplier, from the following tables:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* If ROIC for the third year of the Performance Cycle is not higher than the average ROIC over the three-year Performance Cycle, then the ROIC for the third year of the Performance Cycle will be deemed to be the average over the three-year period for purposes of determining the Company's satisfaction of this metric.
 
 
 
 
"
Cumulative Free Cash Flow
" is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending and internal use software spending over a three year period.
 
"
Total Shareholder Return
" is defined as the total return of a stock to an investor (capital gain plus dividends).
 
"
Return On Invested Capital
" is defined as net income plus after-tax net interest expense plus one-third of lease expense (estimate of interest portion of lease expense), divided by average* invested capital after capitalizing operating leases (lease expense times a multiplier of 8) and adding financial guarantees. *Average invested capital is calculated based on the Company's invested capital using two points during the Performance Cycle. Examples: average on 12/31/05 and 12/31/06; average on 12/31/06 and 12/31/07; average on 12/31/07 and 12/31/08.
 
"
Peers:
"  Boeing, General Dynamics, Goodrich, Honeywell, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Rockwell Collins, Textron, and United Technologies. In the event of any mergers or other corporate events affecting the foregoing companies during the Performance Cycle, the Committee may make such adjustments to the peer group of companies, the total return calculations of the affected companies and the metrics set out above as it may determine in its sole discretion would most nearly carry out the original purposes and intent of this Award.
 
3. Effect of Termination of Employment, Etc.
You must remain an employee until the end of the Performance Cycle in order to be entitled to any payment pursuant to this Award, except as provided in Section 4 and except as follows. If your employment with the Company ends during the Performance Cycle on account of your Retirement, as that term is defined in the Plan, or because you become disabled or die, after the end of the Performance Cycle, you (or in the event of your death, your estate) will be entitled to a pro rata portion of the number of shares of Stock you would have received, if any, had you remained employed until the end of the Performance Cycle. The pro rata portion will be based on the number of full months in the Performance Cycle during which you were employed as compared to the total number of months in the Performance Cycle.
 
4. Effect of Change of Corporate Control
If a Change of Corporate Control, as defined in the Plan, should occur during the Performance Cycle, the Award will terminate. However, at or immediately following the Change of Corporate Control, you will be entitled to receive a pro rata portion of the Total Target Number of Shares of Stock covered by this Award, without regard to the extent to which the performance conditions of Section 2 have been satisfied. The pro rata portion will be based on the number of full months in the Performance Cycle preceding the Change of Corporate Control as compared to the total number of months in the Performance Cycle.
 
 
 
 
5. Payment
 
 
 
 
6. Other Provisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RAYTHEON COMPANY
 
Chairman and CEO
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Media Relations
News release
 
Contact
Steve Brecken
781.522.5127
 
Raytheon Board Elects Michael C. Ruettgers Lead Director
 
WALTHAM, Mass., (May, 8, 2006) Raytheon Company announced at its Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 3, 2006 the election of Michael C. Ruettgers as lead director of the Raytheon Company Board of Directors, and the appointment of four directors to serve as committee chairs. William R. Spivey will serve as the Chair of the Management Development and Compensation Committee; John M. Deutch will serve as the Chair of the Governance and Nominating Committee; and Linda G. Stuntz will serve as the Chair of the Public Affairs Committee. Ronald L. Skates will continue to serve as the Chair of the Audit Committee. The new committee chairs are the result of the retirement of Warren B. Rudman and Thomas E. Everhart from Raytheon's Board of Directors. Rudman previously served as Lead Director and Chair of the Management Development and Compensation and Everhart served as Chair of the Governance and Nominating Committee.
 
Michael C. Ruettgers, who is Special Advisor and Retired Chairman of EMC Corporation, joined the board in 2000. Prior to serving as Chairman and CEO of EMC, Ruettgers held a variety of senior executive positions at EMC Corporation.
 
William R. Spivey, a director of the Company since 1999, is the retired President and Chief Executive Officer of Luminent, Inc. John M. Deutch is an Institute Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and has been a director of the Company since 1998. Linda G. Stuntz, a director of the Company since 2004, is a partner in the law firm of Stuntz, Davis & Staffer, P.C. Ronald L. Skates is a private investor and the former President and Chief Executive officer of Data General Corporation; he has been a director of the Company since 2003.
 
Raytheon Company (NYSE: RTN), with 2005 sales of $21.9 billion, is an industry leader in defense and government electronics, space, information technology, technical services, and business and special mission aircraft. With headquarters in Waltham, Mass., Raytheon employs 80,000 people worldwide.
###
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
May 3, 2006
 
Statement of Board of Directors of Raytheon Company
 
 
ARLINGTON, Virginia --
Following the annual shareholders meeting, Michael C. Ruettgers, incoming lead director, and Sen. Warren B. Rudman, outgoing lead director, issued the following statement on behalf of the Board of Directors of Raytheon Company:
 
"During its meeting today, the Board of Directors expressed to Mr. Swanson its deep concern over the disclosures involving The Unwritten Rules. The Board noted that Mr. Swanson, appropriately, has taken full responsibility for the issues associated with the source materials, sincerely apologized to all involved and discontinued any further distribution of the booklet.
 
"In response to this matter, the Board has decided not to raise Mr. Swanson's salary above its 2005 level, and will reduce the amount of restricted stock for which he is eligible in the coming year by 20 percent.
 
"While the Board obviously takes this matter very seriously, it feels strongly it should not overshadow Mr. Swanson's extraordinary vision and performance in leading this company during the past three years. We continue to have full confidence in Mr. Swanson's leadership, which we reaffirmed to him today."
 
 
###
 
 
 
 
 


