FILE:RTN/RTN-8K-20100729070608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2010, Raytheon Company issued a press release announcing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 27, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1. The information in this report, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216 and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
WALTHAM, Mass., (July 29, 2010)  Raytheon Company (NYSE: RTN) announced second quarter 2010 Adjusted EPS of $1.36 per diluted share, compared to $1.22 per diluted share in the second quarter 2009
(1)
. Second quarter 2010 income from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon was $0.56 per diluted share compared to $1.24 per diluted share in the second quarter 2009.
Second quarter 2010 income from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon included a ($395) million before-tax unfavorable adjustment, ($274) million after-tax or ($0.71) per diluted share, due to the previously announced program termination notice received by Raytheon Systems Limited on July 22, 2010 from the UK Border Agency. The Company believes that it performed well and delivered substantial capabilities to the customer under this program, and intends to pursue vigorously the collection of the unbilled receivables and damages and defend itself against the claims for losses and previous payments. Under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) the Company is required to recognize, in the second quarter 2010, the potential financial impact of the termination notice.
 
 
 
Second quarter 2010 income from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon also included ($0.09) per diluted share of FAS/CAS pension expense, compared to $0.02 per diluted share of FAS/CAS pension income in the second quarter 2009.
"Raytheon's underlying results during the quarter and execution of our strategy show continued growth for the year," said William H. Swanson, Raytheon's Chairman and CEO. "We continue to be well aligned with our customers' needs and we are well positioned for the future."
Net sales of $6.0 billion in the second quarter 2010 reflect the $316 million reduction for the UK Border Agency program termination. Net sales in the second quarter 2009 were $6.1 billion.
The Company generated operating cash flow from continuing operations of $400 million in the second quarter 2010 compared to $512 million in the second quarter 2009. Operating cash flow from continuing operations in the second quarter 2010 included $73 million in higher cash tax payments.
The Company ended the second quarter 2010 with $2.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $2.3 billion in total debt.
In the second quarter 2010, the Company repurchased 8.6 million shares of common stock for $475 million, as part of its previously announced share repurchase program. Year-to-date 2010, the Company repurchased 14.2 million shares of common stock for $775 million.
 
Summary Financial Results
 
 
 
 
Bookings and Backlog
Bookings
 
Backlog
 
Year-to-date 2010 bookings were $12.4 billion, resulting in a book-to-bill ratio slightly greater than 1.
Outlook
2010 Financial Outlook
 
 
The Company updated its full-year 2010 guidance to reflect the unfavorable impact of the UK Border Agency program termination. Charts containing additional information on the Company's 2010 financial outlook are available on the Company's website at .
www.raytheon.com/ir
 
Segment Results
Integrated Defense Systems
 
Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) had second quarter 2010 net sales of $1,352 million compared to $1,335 million in the second quarter 2009. IDS recorded $221 million of operating income compared to $205 million in the second quarter 2009. The increase in operating income was primarily due to international Patriot programs.
During the quarter, IDS booked $317 million to provide advanced Patriot air and missile defense capability for an international customer.
Intelligence and Information Systems
 
NM = Not Meaningful
Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS) had second quarter 2010 net sales of $472 million compared to $812 million in the second quarter 2009. IIS recorded $329 million of operating loss in the second quarter 2010 and $66 million of operating income in the second quarter 2009. The impact of the UK Border Agency program termination reduced IIS' second quarter 2010 net sales and operating income by $316 million and $395 million, respectively.
During the quarter, IIS booked $80 million on the Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS) contract for NASA. IIS also booked $371 million on a number of classified contracts.
 
Missile Systems
 
Missile Systems (MS) had second quarter 2010 net sales of $1,415 million compared to $1,384 million in the second quarter 2009. MS recorded $164 million of operating income compared to $147 million in the second quarter 2009. The increase in operating income was primarily due to improved program performance.
During the quarter, MS booked $234 million for Standard Missile-3 (SM-3) for the Missile Defense Agency, $223 million for Phalanx Weapon Systems for the U.S. Navy, U.S. Army and international customers, $150 million for Miniature Air Launched Decoys (MALD) for the U.S Air Force, $123 million for Evolved Sea Sparrow Missiles (ESSM) for the U.S. Navy and international customers, $84 million for Standard Missile-2 (SM-2) for the U.S. Navy and an international customer and $81 million for AIM-9X short range air-to-air missiles for the U.S. Navy and international customers.
Network Centric Systems
 
Network Centric Systems (NCS) had second quarter 2010 net sales of $1,205 million compared to $1,197 million in the second quarter 2009. NCS recorded $166 million of operating income compared to $170 million in the second quarter 2009.
During the quarter, NCS booked $100 million on a command and control program for an international customer.
 
Space and Airborne Systems
 
Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) had second quarter 2010 net sales of $1,197 million, up 5 percent compared to $1,136 million in the second quarter 2009, primarily due to growth on classified business. SAS recorded $171 million of operating income compared to $175 million in the second quarter 2009. The change in operating income was primarily due to a favorable contractual settlement in the second quarter 2009.
During the quarter, SAS booked $160 million on two international AESA tactical radar programs. SAS also booked $563 million on a number of classified contracts, including $355 million on a major classified program.
Technical Services
 
Technical Services (TS) had second quarter 2010 net sales of $834 million, up 7 percent compared to $780 million in the second quarter 2009, primarily due to continued growth in domestic and foreign training programs supporting the U.S. Army's Warfighter Field Operations Customer Support (FOCUS) activities. TS recorded operating income of $73 million compared to $53 million in the second quarter 2009. The increase in operating income was primarily due to improved program performance and higher volume.
 
During the quarter, TS booked $399 million on domestic training programs and $136 million on foreign training programs in support of the Warfighter FOCUS activities. TS also booked $95 million to provide operational and logistics support to the National Science Foundation (NSF) Office of Polar Programs.
Raytheon Company (NYSE: RTN), with 2009 sales of $25 billion, is a technology and innovation leader specializing in defense, homeland security and other government markets throughout the world. With a history of innovation spanning 88 years, Raytheon provides state-of-the-art electronics, mission systems integration and other capabilities in the areas of sensing; effects; and command, control, communications and intelligence systems, as well as a broad range of mission support services. With headquarters in Waltham, Mass., Raytheon employs 75,000 people worldwide.
Conference Call on the Second Quarter 2010 Financial Results
Raytheon's financial results conference call will be held on Thursday, July 29, 2010 at 9 a.m. ET. Participants will include William H. Swanson, Chairman and CEO; David C. Wajsgras, senior vice president and CFO; and other Company executives.
The dial-in number for the conference call will be (866) 543-6405 in the U.S. or (617) 213-8897 outside of the U.S. The conference call will also be audiocast on the Internet at . Individuals may listen to the call and download charts that will be used during the call. These charts will be available for printing prior to the call.
www.raytheon.com/ir
Interested parties are encouraged to check the website ahead of time to ensure their computers are configured for the audio stream. Instructions for obtaining the free required downloadable software are posted on the site.
 
Disclosure Regarding Forward-looking Statements
This release and the attachments contain forward-looking statements, including information regarding the Company's 2010 financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects and anticipated financial performance. These forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only the Company's current expectations regarding such matters. These statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. Specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: the Company's dependence on the U.S. Government for a significant portion of its business and the risks associated with U.S. Government sales, including changes or shifts in defense spending, uncertain funding of programs, potential termination of contracts, and difficulties in contract performance; the resolution of program terminations; the ability to procure new contracts; the risks of conducting business in foreign countries; the ability to comply with extensive governmental regulation, including import and export policies, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, and procurement and other regulations; the impact of competition; the ability to develop products and technologies; the impact of changes in the financial markets and global economic conditions; the risk that actual pension returns, discount rates or other actuarial assumptions are significantly different than the Company's assumptions; the risk of cost overruns, particularly for the Company's fixed-price contracts; dependence on component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers; risks of a negative government audit; the use of accounting estimates in the Company's financial statements; risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other business arrangements; risks of an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets; the outcome of contingencies and litigation matters, including government investigations; the ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel; the impact of potential security threats and other disruptions; and other factors as may be detailed from time to time in the Company's public announcements and Securities and Exchange Commission filings. The Company undertakes no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this release and the attachments or to update them to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this release, including any acquisitions, dispositions or other business arrangements that may be announced or closed after such date. This release and the attachments also contain non-GAAP financial measures. A GAAP reconciliation and a discussion of the Company's use of these measures are included in this release or the attachments.
 
Attachment A
Raytheon Company
Preliminary Statement of Operations Information
Second Quarter 2010
 
Attachment B
Raytheon Company
Preliminary Segment Information
Second Quarter 2010
 
Attachment C
Raytheon Company
Other Preliminary Information
Second Quarter 2010
 
 
 
Attachment D
Raytheon Company
Preliminary Balance Sheet Information
Second Quarter 2010
 
Attachment E
Raytheon Company
Preliminary Cash Flow Information
Second Quarter 2010
 
 
Attachment F
Raytheon Company
Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Adjusted Measures
Second Quarter 2010
Adjusted EPS Non-GAAP Reconciliation
 
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders Non-GAAP Reconciliation
 
Adjusted operating margin Non-GAAP Reconciliation
 
 
Adjusted EPS is defined as diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders excluding the EPS impact of the FAS/CAS pension adjustment and the UK Border Agency program termination. Adjusted operating margin is defined as total operating margin excluding the margin impact of the FAS/CAS pension adjustment and the UK Border Agency program termination. Adjusted Income from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders is defined as income from continuing operations attributable to Raytheon Company common stockholders excluding the after-tax impact of the FAS/CAS pension adjustment and the after-tax impact of the UK Border Agency program termination.
Attachment G
Raytheon Company
Preliminary Return on Invested Capital Non-GAAP Financial Measure
Second Quarter 2010
The Company defines Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) as income from continuing operations excluding the after-tax effect of the FAS/CAS pension adjustment and the after-tax effect of the UK Border Agency program termination adjustment plus after-tax net interest expense plus one-third of operating lease expense after-tax (estimate of interest portion of operating lease expense) divided by average invested capital after capitalizing operating leases (operating lease expense times a multiplier of 8), adding financial guarantees less net investment in Discontinued Operations, and adding back the impact of the accounting standard for employers' accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. ROIC should be considered supplemental to and not a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company uses ROIC as a measure of efficiency and effectiveness of its use of capital and as an element of management compensation.
Return on Invested Capital
 
 


