FILE:RTN/RTN-8K-20101220170944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 20, 2010, Raytheon Company issued a press release announcing that it entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Applied Signal Technology, Inc. ("Applied Signal"). Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 18, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement"), between Applied Signal, Raytheon Company and RN Acquisition Company, a California corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Raytheon Company ("Merger Sub"), Raytheon Company has agreed to cause Merger Sub to commence a tender offer (the "Offer") to purchase all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, without par value, of Applied Signal, for $38.00 per share (the "Offer Price"), net to the seller in cash, without interest thereon and subject to applicable withholding taxes. The Merger Agreement also provides that a single-step merger of Merger Sub with and into Applied Signal may be consummated regardless of whether the Offer is completed, but if the Offer is not completed, the merger will only be able to be consummated after the shareholders of Applied Signal have adopted the Merger Agreement at a meeting of shareholders. In the merger, each outstanding share of Applied Signal, other than shares owned by Raytheon Company or Merger Sub or by Applied Signal's shareholders who have validly exercised their appraisal rights under the California Corporations Code, will be converted into the right to receive cash in an amount equal to the Offer Price. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
On December 20, 2010, Raytheon Company distributed to the employees of Applied Signal a presentation regarding Raytheon Company. A copy of the presentation is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.2.
The press release and presentation filed herewith are neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell securities. The Offer described in this filing and in the exhibits has not yet commenced. At the time the Offer is commenced, Raytheon Company will file a tender offer statement on Schedule TO with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Investors and Applied Signal security holders are strongly advised to read the tender offer statement (including the offer to purchase, letter of transmittal and related tender offer documents) and the related solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 that will be filed by Applied Signal with the SEC, because they will contain important information about the Offer. Those materials will be made available at no charge on the SEC's website at . In addition, a copy of the tender offer documents (once they become available) may be obtained from Raytheon Company free of charge by directing a request to Raytheon Company at , or Raytheon Company, 870 Winter Street, Waltham, MA 02451, Attn: Corporate Secretary's Office.
www.sec.gov
www.raytheon.com
Additional Information About the Merger and Where to Find It
In connection with the potential one-step merger, Applied Signal would file a proxy statement with the SEC. Additionally, Applied Signal would file other relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition of Applied Signal by Raytheon Company pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. The materials to be filed by Applied Signal with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at . Investors and security holders also may obtain free copies of the proxy statement from Applied Signal Investor Relations by contacting Applied Signal at 460 West California Avenue, Sunnyvale, California 94086, (408) 749-1888. Investors and security holders of Applied Signal are urged to read the proxy statement and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger.
www.sec.gov
Raytheon Company, Applied Signal and their respective directors, executive officers and other members of their respective management and employees, under the SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies of Applied Signal's shareholders in connection with the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Raytheon Company's executive officers and directors in the solicitation by reading Raytheon Company's proxy statement for its 2010 annual meeting of shareholders. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Applied Signal executive officers and directors in the solicitation by reading Applied Signal's proxy statement for its 2010 annual meeting of shareholders and the proxy statement and other relevant materials which may be filed with the SEC in connection with the merger when and if they become available. Information concerning the interests of Applied Signal's participants in the solicitation, which may, in some cases, be different than those of Applied Signal's shareholders generally, will be set forth in the proxy statement relating to the merger when and if it becomes available.
 
(d) 
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Raytheon Company announces agreement to acquire Applied Signal Technology, Inc.
 
 
WALTHAM, Mass., (Dec. 20, 2010)  Raytheon Company (NYSE: RTN) today announced that it has signed a definitive acquisition agreement with Applied Signal Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ: APSG), a leader in the collection and processing of communications signals to support tactical and strategic intelligence missions. The agreement has been approved by the boards of directors of both companies.
Under the terms of the agreement, Raytheon will commence a tender offer to purchase all of the outstanding shares of Applied Signal Technology, Inc. common stock at a price of $38.00 per share in cash for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $490 million, net of cash acquired. Pending the successful completion of the tender offer, the transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2011 subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. The transaction is not expected to have a material effect on Raytheon's earnings.
Applied Signal's tactical signals and communications intelligence (SIGINT/COMINT) systems, data fusion and information operations/information assurance products, combined with Raytheon's world class sensor technology, program management, mission support and system integration capabilities, will provide highly discriminating solutions to an expanded range of intelligence and defense customers in the United States and around the world.
"Applied Signal brings world class technologies and talent that complement Raytheon's strong intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance solutions," said William H. Swanson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Raytheon Company. "This combination of strengths, along with our complementary cultures of innovation, will provide capabilities to address our customers' current and future challenges while creating value for our shareholders."
Nearly 90 percent of Applied Signal's sales are to classified customers. The company's portfolio includes secure broadband network communications; cyber intelligence systems, software and analytics to address sophisticated cyberspace threats; electronic warfare solutions; and other advanced capabilities that enable customers to detect, evaluate and respond to potential threats. These systems are deployed on a range of strategic platforms worldwide.
"Our history of innovation across a range of strategic and tactical ISR products and services, including significant scale in the fast-growing network intelligence space, together with Raytheon's technology portfolio and development expertise will create strong new capabilities for customers," said William B. Van Vleet, Chief Executive Officer, Applied Signal Technology, Inc.
Following successful completion of the transaction, Applied Signal will be integrated into Raytheon's Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) business. Applied Signal's capabilities offer opportunities for growth at SAS and across the Raytheon enterprise.
"Applied Signal aligns with our strategy of expanding participation in our customers' principal areas of need, particularly ISR systems," said Rick Yuse, president, SAS. "Joining Raytheon's radar, electro-optical/infrared sensors, and communications technologies with Applied Signal's SIGINT/COMINT systems will enhance our ability to deliver a full spectrum of integrated sensor solutions."
Completion of the transaction is subject to, among other things, the valid tender without withdrawal of 76.3 percent of the outstanding shares of Applied Signal Technology, Inc. common stock, regulatory approvals including approval under the Hart-
Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and other customary closing conditions. Following completion of the tender offer, any shares of Applied Signal Technology, Inc. not tendered will be converted into the right to receive the same price per share paid by Raytheon in the tender offer. In the event that the minimum tender condition is not met, and in certain other circumstances, the parties have agreed to complete the transaction through a one-step merger after receipt of shareholder approval. The transaction is not subject to any financing condition.
Raytheon Company (NYSE: RTN), with 2009 sales of $25 billion, is a technology and innovation leader specializing in defense, homeland security and other government markets throughout the world. With a history of innovation spanning 88 years, Raytheon provides state-of-the-art electronics, mission systems integration and other capabilities in the areas of sensing; effects; and command, control, communications and intelligence systems, as well as a broad range of mission support services. With headquarters in Waltham, Mass., Raytheon employs 75,000 people worldwide.
Raytheon Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," including information regarding Raytheon's 2011 outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects and the acquisition of Applied Signal Technology, Inc. Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from current expectations. Specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: Raytheon's dependence on the U.S. Government for a significant portion of its business and the risks associated with U.S. Government sales, including changes or shifts in defense spending, uncertain funding of programs, potential termination of contracts, and difficulties in contract performance; the ability to procure new contracts; the risks of conducting business in foreign countries; the ability to comply with extensive governmental regulation, including import and export policies, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, and procurement and other regulations; the impact of competition; the ability to develop products and technologies; the impact of changes in the financial markets and global economic conditions; the risk that actual pension returns, discount rates or other actuarial assumptions are significantly different from Raytheon's assumptions; the risk of cost overruns, particularly for Raytheon's fixed-price contracts; dependence on component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers; risks of a negative government audit; the use of accounting estimates in Raytheon's financial statements; risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other business arrangements; risks of an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets; the outcome of contingencies and litigation matters, including government investigations; the ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel; the impact of potential security threats and other disruptions; and other factors as may be detailed from time to time in Raytheon's public announcements and Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Other risks and uncertainties relating to the acquisition of Applied Signal Technology, Inc. include the satisfaction of closing conditions for the acquisition, including clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, the tender of the requisite number of the outstanding shares of
common stock of Applied Signal Technology, Inc. or majority vote in favor of the transaction at a special shareholders' meeting, and the possibility that the transaction will not be completed, or if it is completed, that it will not close within the anticipated time period. Forward-looking statements in this press release should be evaluated together with the other uncertainties that affect Raytheon's business, particularly those identified in the cautionary factors discussion in Raytheon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, together with its subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Raytheon undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Notice to Investors
The tender offer described in this press release has not yet commenced, and this press release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell securities. At the time the tender offer is commenced, Raytheon Company will file a tender offer statement on Schedule TO with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Investors and Applied Signal Technology, Inc. security holders are strongly advised to read the tender offer statement (including the offer to purchase, letter of transmittal and related tender offer documents) and the related solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 that will be filed by Applied Signal Technology, Inc. with the SEC, because they will contain important information about the tender offer. These documents will be available at no charge on the SEC's website at . In addition, a copy of the offer to purchase, letter of transmittal and certain other related tender offer documents (once they become available) may be obtained free of charge by directing a request to Raytheon Company at , or Raytheon Company, 870 Winter Street, Waltham, MA 02451, Attn: Corporate Secretary's Office.
www.sec.gov
www.raytheon.com
Additional Information About the Merger and Where to Find It
In connection with the potential one-step merger, Applied Signal Technology, Inc. would file a proxy statement with the SEC. Additionally, Applied Signal Technology, Inc. would file other relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition of Applied Signal Technology, Inc. by Raytheon pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Applied Signal Technology, Inc., RN Acquisition Company and Raytheon Company. The materials to be filed by Applied Signal Technology, Inc. with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at . Investors and security holders also may obtain free copies of the proxy statement from Applied Signal Technology Investor Relations by contacting Applied Signal at 460 West California Avenue, Sunnyvale, California 94086, (408) 749-1888. Investors and security holders of Applied Signal Technology, Inc. are urged to read the proxy statement and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger.
www.sec.gov
Raytheon Company, Applied Signal Technology, Inc. and their respective directors, executive officers and other members of their respective management and employees, under the SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies of Applied Signal Technology, Inc.'s stockholders in connection with the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Raytheon Company's executive officers and directors in the solicitation by reading Raytheon Company's proxy statement for its 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Applied Signal Technology, Inc.'s executive officers and directors in the solicitation by reading Applied Signal Technology, Inc.'s proxy statement for its 2010 annual meeting of stockholders and the proxy statement and other relevant materials which may be filed with the SEC in connection with the merger when and if they become available. Information concerning the interests of Applied Signal Technology, Inc.'s participants in the solicitation, which may, in some cases, be different than those of Applied Signal Technology, Inc.'s stockholders generally, will be set forth in the proxy statement relating to the merger when and if it becomes available.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Raytheon
Copyright  2010 Raytheon Company. All rights reserved.
 
Notice to Investors
This presentation is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell securities. The previously announced tender offer has not yet commenced. At the time the tender offer is commenced, Raytheon Company will file a tender offer statement on Schedule TO with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Investors and Applied Signal security holders are strongly advised to read the tender offer statement (including the offer to purchase, letter of transmittal and related tender offer documents) and the related solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 that will be filed by Applied Signal with the SEC, because they will contain important information about the tender offer. These documents will be available at no charge on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, a copy of the offer to purchase, letter of transmittal and certain other related tender offer documents (once they become available) may be obtained free of charge by directing a request to Raytheon Company at www.raytheon.com, or Raytheon Company, 870 Winter Street, Waltham, MA 02451, Attn: Corporate Secretary's Office.
Additional Information About the Merger and Where to Find It
In connection with the potential one-step merger, Applied Signal would file a proxy statement with the SEC. Additionally, Applied Signal would file other relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition of Applied Signal by Raytheon pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Applied Signal, RN Acquisition Company and Raytheon Company. The materials to be filed by Applied Signal with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Investors and security holders also may obtain free copies of the proxy statement from Applied Signal by contacting Applied Signal Technology, Inc. at 400 West Avenue, Sunnyvale, California 94086, (408) 749-1888 or www.appsig.com. Investors and security holders of Applied Signal are urged to read the proxy statement and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger.
Raytheon Company and Applied Signal and their respective directors, executive officers and other members of their management and employees, under the SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies of Applied Signal's stockholders in connection with the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Applied Signal's executive officers and directors in the solicitation by reading Applied Signal's proxy statement for its 2010 annual meeting of stockholders and the proxy statement and other relevant materials which may be filed with the SEC in connection with the merger when and if they become available. Information concerning the interests of Applied Signal's participants in the solicitation, which may, in some cases, be different than those of Applied Signal's stockholders generally, will be set forth in the proxy statement relating to the merger when and if it becomes available. Additional information regarding Applied Signal's executive officers and directors is available by reading Applied Signal's proxy statement for its 2010 annual meeting of stockholders.
 
WHO WE ARE
A technology and innovation leader specializing in defense, homeland security and other government markets throughout the world
2009 net sales: $25 billion
75,000 employees worldwide
Headquarters: Waltham, Massachusetts
 A global leader in technology and innovation
Raytheon
 
OUR VISION
To be the most admired defense and aerospace systems supplier through world-class people and technology.
 Ensuring the success of our customers
Raytheon
 
OUR STRATEGY
Focus on key strategic pursuits, Technology and Mission Assurance to protect and grow our position in our four core defense markets:
 Sensing: Expand beyond traditional RF/EO to new growth focus areas;
 Effects: Expand beyond kinetic energy-based weapons;
 C3I: Grow market presence through our world-class solutions, technology and products; expand knowledge management;
 Mission Support: Expand beyond product support ,engineering services and training.
Leverage our domain knowledge in these core defense markets, as well as in Homeland Security and Cybersecurity.
Expand international business by broadening focus and expanding in growth markets.
Continue to be a Customer Focused company based on performance, relationships and solutions.
 A technology-driven growth strategy
Raytheon
 
Customer
Growth
People
Productivity
OUR GOALS
Customer - Be regarded as a Customer Focused company.
Growth - Grow revenue faster than the market. Build on good performance in improving cash flow. Execute well and with predictability.
People - Retain and attract world-class talent while providing superior opportunities for employee development. Treat all employees with respect. Leverage our diversity efforts as a competitive advantage, continuing Raytheon's leadership in diversity.
Productivity - Improve ROIC for Raytheon Company. Take Raytheon Six Sigma to the next level, further engaging customers and partners. Deliver greater value and predictability through the Integrated Product Development System (IPDS), Earned Value Management System (EVMS) and Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI).
 Raytheon customer focus is a total commitment
Raytheon
 
People
Integrity
Commitment
Excellence
OUR VALUES
PEOPLE
Treat people with respect and dignity.
Welcome diversity and diverse opinions.
Help our fellow employees improve their skills.
Recognize and reward accomplishment.
Foster teamwork and collaboration.
INTEGRITY
Be honest, forthright and trustworthy.
Use straight talk; no hidden agendas.
Respect ethics, law and regulation.
COMMITMENT
Honor commitments to customers,
shareholders, the community and
each other.
Accept personal responsibility to meet
commitments; be accountable.
EXCELLENCE
Improve performance continually.
Achieve innovation in all that we do.
Stress quality, productivity, growth,
best practices and measurement.
Always strive to be the best.
 A culture of performance
Raytheon
 
Raytheon is a leading technology and innovation company that consistently provides innovative solutions, service and Mission Support to our global customers. Customer success is our mission.
WHAT WE DO
Our innovative, effective technologies, CMMI excellence and trusted relationships provide our customers with Mission Assurance performance for their changing operational needs. At Raytheon, promises made are promises kept.
Our core market capabilities in Sensing, Effects, C3I and Mission Support help us meet the needs of our customers today and their evolving needs of the future.
Proof Points: Raytheon's world-class talent  75,000 employees operating around the globe  has a unique understanding of mission requirements and how to apply advanced technology with speed and agility to give our customers a distinct operational advantage.
Brand values: People, Integrity, Customer Commitment, Product & Service Excellence, Mission Assurance.
 Proven performance
Raytheon
 
Core Market: Sensing
Technologies that acquire data and create accurate, reliable information for effective battlespace decisions.
Sensing technologies provide precise situational data for effective battlespace decisions. They also advance our understanding of the physical environment on, above and beyond the earth. Raytheon sensing solutions exploit the full electromagnetic spectrum, including electro-optical, radio frequency (RF), hyperspectral, acoustic, ultraviolet and radiological; spanning all domains: air, land, sea, space and cyberspace.
 Meeting U.S. and International customer needs
Raytheon
 
Core Market: Effects
Technologies that achieve specific military actions or outcomes  from striking targets to disabling hostile information systems.
Advances in effects technologies enable commanders to achieve specific military outcomes with increasing precision, whether striking a target, disabling enemy information systems or applying directed energy to protect troops in urban combat.
Raytheon solutions are at the forefront of these developments, supported by world-class capabilities in areas ranging from airframes to guidance and navigation systems to high-resolution sensors and targeting systems.
 Spanning the gamut of current and emerging technologies
Raytheon
 
Core Market: C3I (Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence)
Integrated real-time systems that optimize operational planning and execution.
C3I systems turn an extraordinary range of real-time data into a unified resource for decision-makers on and off the battlefield.
Raytheon's leadership in C3I spans air, land, sea, space and cyberspace, combining pioneering technology with global insight to provide Mission Assurance across the full spectrum of offensive and defensive operations.
 Systems covering ground, sea, air and space operations
Raytheon
 
Core Market: Mission Support
Total life-cycle solutions that ensure performance, no matter the mission, no matter the platform.
Complex technologies, extreme conditions, constant change: mission support must embrace them all with systems that ensure flawless performance.
Raytheon addresses every corner of this vast market, from information management to logistics, maintenance and training. Our innovative solutions reflect a relentless pursuit of perfection and a proud tradition of service to our military, our nation and the world.
 Systems and solutions to ensure flawless performance
Raytheon
 
International
Government and defense customers around the world rely on Raytheon contracts for innovative technology solutions.
Raytheon technologies serve core market customers in 80 nations, with applications ranging from command and control to missile defense. International opportunities continue to expand across growth markets.
 Contributing to a safer, more stable world
Raytheon
 
Performance, Relationships, Solutions
Growth
Performance, Relationships, Solutions
Customer Focused Marketing
These are the pillars that have supported the company's progress  and these are the principles, combined with our process discipline, that continue to deliver strong results.
We are a Customer Focused company based on:
Performance:
Promises made, promises kept.
Relationships:
Listen, anticipate, respond and follow through with our customers, partners and each other.
Solutions:
Develop and provide superior customer solutions.
 Customer Success Is Our Mission
Raytheon
 
PERFORMANCE
Mission Assurance
By taking an integrated approach across the company, we have brought our Mission Assurance promise of performance to unprecedented levels.
Leading efforts to ensure reliability for mission success in everything Raytheon delivers.
 Confidence to achieve mission success
Raytheon
 
RELATIONSHIPS
Who We Serve
The Raytheon culture has enormous respect for service. Our customers are men and women in uniform, and a number of our employees are reservists on active duty or veterans themselves.
Our international allies and friends are important partners in defense and security around the world.
 Our goal is to earn and maintain the trust of our customers
Raytheon
 
SOLUTIONS
Mission Systems Integration
Mission Systems Integration is the integration of multiple systems working seamlessly together to meet a single goal.
Our breadth of domain knowledge and advanced systems engineering capabilities enable us to identify, synthesize and deliver all the elements needed to meet urgent mission needs in integrated, manageable form.
 Solutions that meet our customers' most urgent needs
Raytheon
 
DIVERSITY
An Inclusive Culture
Raytheon believes in an enterprisewide culture that is welcoming, respectful and supportive of all of our employees.
Our commitment is to build an inclusive culture that:
Recognizes uniqueness
Empowers each employee
Values all contributions and contributors
Leverages a diverse workforce to maximize Raytheon's competitive advantage
 Valuing different ideas; putting a premium on respect
Raytheon
 
TALENT
Inspiring Interest in Math and Science
We hope to make a difference in the lives of young students by showing them the path that focuses on math and science leads to an exciting and rewarding future.
Raytheon supports a number of educational initiatives to ensure the talent pipeline remains full well into the future:
 MathMovesU
 MATHCOUNTS
 FIRST Robotics
 Raytheon Scholars Program
 The Hall at Patriot Place presented by Raytheon
 Sum of all Thrills
 Securing the technical talent pipeline for the future
Raytheon
 
LEARNING
A Culture of Learning
Raytheon Six Sigma is a disciplined, knowledge-based approach used to increase productivity, grow the business and enhance customer satisfaction a key element of our learning process.
With each project and each employee experience, we learn more about process improvement and about providing value to the customer.
Raytheon Six Sigma
 Raytheon Six Sigma is part of our DNA structure
Raytheon
 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Being Responsible In All We Do
Good stewardship is a part of everything we do, everyone we interact with, and everything we stand for.
Raytheon's ongoing commitment to corporate citizenship includes: dedication to sound corporate governance; a strong commitment to ethics; excellence in engineering; caring for the safety of our 75,000 employees; reducing waste and conserving energy; supporting our communities; and building for the future.
 Stewardship is about making good decisions with the highest degree of integrity
Raytheon
 
Leadership Team
Raytheon Chairman and CEO
W.H. Swanson
Integrated Defense Systems
T. Kennedy
Intelligence and Information Systems
L. Dugle
Missile Systems
T. Lawrence
Network Centric Systems
D. Crowley
Space and Airborne Systems
R. Yuse
Technical Services
J. Harris
Corp BD and International Operations
T. Culligan
Human Resources
K. Peden
Legal
J. Stephens
Finance
D. Wajsgras
Internal Audit
L. Harrington
Contracts and Supply Chain
D. Wilkins
Raytheon Evaluation Team
M. Hoeffler
Information Technology
R. Rhoads
Engineering, Technology and Mission Assurance
M. Russell
Corporate Affairs and Communications
P. Wickham
Raytheon
 
Business Leadership Team
Chairman and CEO
Bill Swanson
Integrated Defense Systems
Tom Kennedy
Intelligence and Information Systems
Lynn Dugle
Missile Systems
Taylor Lawrence
Network Centric Systems
Daniel Crowley
Space and Airborne Systems
Rick Yuse
Technical Services
John Harris
Raytheon
 
Raytheon Business Headquarters
Integrated
Defense Systems
Tewksbury, MA
Space and Airborne Systems
El Segundo, CA
BD and Raytheon
International Operations
Rosslyn, VA
Global Headquarters
Waltham, MA
Network Centric Systems
McKinney, TX
Technical Services
Reston, VA
Missile Systems
Tucson, AZ
Intelligence and Information Systems
Garland, TX
 75,000 employees; 2009 net sales: $25 billion
Raytheon
 
INTEGRATED DEFENSE SYSTEMS
Thomas A. Kennedy
President
2009 Net Sales: $5.5B
Employees: 15,400
HQ: Tewksbury, MA
Integrated naval, missile and air defense, domain awareness systems, and homeland security solutions
 International
 Naval
 Ballistic Missile Defense
 Integrated Air Defense
 Civil Security
 Leader in global capabilities integration providing affordable integrated solutions
Raytheon
 
INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Lynn A. Dugle
President
2009 Net Sales: $3.2B
Employees: 8,900
HQ: Garland, TX
Information and intelligence solutions for intelligence, military and federal communities
 Cybersecurity
 Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
 Environmental
 Analytics
 Mission Support
 Civil security
 Leading intelligence and information solutions for a global customer base
Raytheon
 
MISSILE SYSTEMS
Taylor W. Lawrence
President
2009 Net Sales: $5.6B
Employees: 13,000
HQ: Tucson, AZ
Advanced missile systems and solutions for the armed forces of the U.S. and allied nations
 Air Warfare Systems
 Missile Defense
 Land Combat
 Naval Weapon Systems
 Directed Energy
 Advanced Programs
 Developer and supplier of innovative weapon solutions
Raytheon
 
NETWORK CENTRIC SYSTEMS
Daniel J. Crowley
President
2009 Net Sales: $4.8B
Employees: 13,600
HQ: McKinney, TX
Net-centric solutions for sensing, command and control, communications, air traffic management and homeland security
 Command and Control
 Networked Sensors
 Security Solutions and Transportation
 Communications
 Networked decision solutions through world-class technology and people
Raytheon
 
SPACE AND AIRBORNE SYSTEMS
Richard R. Yuse
President
2009 Net Sales: $4.6B
Employees: 12,400
HQ: El Segundo, CA
Integrated sensing solutions for advanced applications in aviation and space technology
 Tactical Airborne Radars and Processors
 Electronic Warfare Systems
 Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 Integrated Aircraft Solutions
 Civil, National and Military Space Solutions
 World leader in integrated sensor systems for space and airborne missions
Raytheon
 
TECHNICAL SERVICES
John D. Harris II
President
2009 Net Sales: $3.2B
Employees: 9,800
HQ: Reston, VA
Mission Support, integrated training solutions, range operations, engineering services, and counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism
 Global Training Solutions
 Logistics and Product Support
 Homeland Security Solutions
 Customized Engineering and Depot Support
 Critical services and innovative solutions for Mission Support
Raytheon
Raytheon


