FILE:RTN/RTN-8K-20100625172608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)      
Exhibits
99.1           Press Release issued by Raytheon Company dated June 22, 2010.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
RAYTHEON COMPANY
Date:  June 25, 2010                                                                             By:
 
 
/s/ Jay B. Stephens
   
   
   
   
      Jay B. Stephens
   
      Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
   
      Secretary
   
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
                         Raytheon Company
                                                     
                                                                          Public Relations
                                                                            870 Winter Street
                                                                                                                                          60;                                               Waltham, MA  02451
                                                                                                                                          60;                                              www.raytheon.com
News release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
Jon Kasle
781.522.5110
Raytheon appoints Thomas A. Kennedy president of Integrated Defense Systems
WALTHAM, Mass., (June 22, 2010)  Raytheon Company (NYSE: RTN) has appointed Dr. Thomas A. Kennedy, 55, president of Raytheon Integrated Defense Systems (IDS), effective immediately. Kennedy succeeds Daniel L. Smith, who will retire from the company, effective July 30, 2010.
Kennedy brings significant experience in defense, sensing and intelligence technologies and international management to IDS top leadership role. He most recently served as vice president for Tactical Airborne Systems (TAS) within Raytheons Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) business.
Toms proven business leadership, customer focus and international expertise will benefit IDS and its expanding base of global customers as we continue to develop and advance Raytheon technologies to support mission success, said William H. Swanson, Chairman and CEO of Raytheon Company.
In his 27-year career at Raytheon, Kennedy has held a variety of leadership roles, principally at the companys SAS business. Prior to his role with TAS, Kennedy served as vice president for the SAS Mission System Integration business, with responsibility for
the U.K. Ministry of Defences ASTOR (Airborne Stand-off Radar) program. Earlier in his Raytheon career, he was a new business leader and program manager for several radar and electronic warfare systems development programs. & #160;Kennedy holds several patents related to radar and electronic warfare systems.
During his military service, Kennedy attained the rank of captain in the U.S. Air Force, with responsibility for managing satellite launch vehicle avionics development and production programs.
A recipient of the Aviation Week Laureate Award for his achievements on the AESA (Active Electronically Scanned Arrays) radar program, Kennedy holds a doctorate in engineering from the University of California Los Angeles and bachelors and masters degrees in electrical engineering from Rutgers University and the Air Force Institute of Technology, respectively.
In commenting on Smiths retirement, Swanson added, We thank Dan for his 13 years of service and dedication to the company. We wish him well in his retirement.
Raytheon Company, with 2009 sales of $25 billion, is a technology and innovation leader specializing in defense, homeland security and other government markets throughout the world. With a history of innovation spanning 88 years, Raytheon provides state-of-the-art electronics, mission systems integration and other capabilities in the areas of sensing; effects; and command, control, communications and intelligence systems, as well as a broad range of mission support services. With headquarters in Waltham, Mass., Raytheon employs 75,000 people worldwide.
 


