FILE:RTN/RTN-8K-20100317172558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))  
 
________________________________________________________________
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On March 10, 2010, Raytheon Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing new executive appointments following the death on March 6, 2010 of Jon C. Jones, who was a Vice President of the Company and President of its Space and Airborne Systems business unit. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
(d)
Exhibits
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.                                          
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
     
Raytheon Company       Public Relations      
870 Winter Street
     
Waltham, MA 02451
     
http://
www.raytheon.com
News release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Jon Kasle 781.522.5110
Raytheon Announces Executive Appointments
WALTHAM, Mass., (March 10, 2010)  Raytheon Company (NYSE: RTN) announced three new executive appointments today.
Richard R. Yuse, 58, has been named president, Raytheon Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) business, effective immediately. Yuse succeeds Jon C. Jones, who passed away on March 6th.
Ricks expertise in technology, his strong customer focus and operational excellence have
been instrumental in making Raytheon a world leader in training services and mission support, said William H. Swanson, Chairman and CEO of Raytheon. I know Rick will bring this same dedication and leadership to his new role at SAS.
. The business is based in Reston, Virginia.
In May 2007, Yuse was named president of Raytheon Technical Services Company (RTSC), which
provides technical, scientific and professional services, as well as a full spectrum of training services and outsourcing for defense, federal and commercial customers worldwide
Since joining Raytheon in 1976, Yuse has held positions of increasing responsibility on a variety of programs in the company. Prior to being named president of RTSC, Yuse served as vice president of Integrated Air Defense at Raytheon Integrated Defense Systems (IDS) business. In that role, he was responsible for all Air Defense programs within IDS for a variety of domestic and international customers.
Radar (UEWR) and the Sea-Based X-Band Radar (SBX).
Before leading Integrated Air Defense, Yuse was vice president of IDS Missile Defense business area where he was responsible for programs such as the Ballistic Missile Defense System (BMDS), Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD), Upgraded Early Warning
Yuse earned both his bachelors and masters degrees in electrical engineering from Northeastern University. A graduate of the Raytheon Advanced Management Program, Yuse is a faculty member of the Raytheon Executive Leadership Program and a member of the Raytheon Executive Diversity Leadership Team.
Raytheon Space and Airborne Systems is a leading provider of sensor systems giving military forces the most accurate and timely actionable information available for the network-centric battlefield. With 2009 revenues of $4.6 billion and 12,000 employees, SAS is headquartered in El Segundo, Calif. Additional facilities are in Goleta, Calif.; Forest, Miss.; Dallas, McKinney and Plano, Texas; and several international locations.
Harris Named President of Raytheon Technical Services Company
Raytheon Company has named John D. Harris II, 48, president, Raytheon Technical Services Company, effective immediately. Harris succeeds Richard R. Yuse and will be based in Reston, Virginia.
In his 27 years with the company, John has developed the broad industry knowledge, leadership and technical expertise to excel in this new role. His deep understanding of Raytheons businesses and customers will support the continued growth and expansion of RTSC today and into the future, said Swanson.
Most recently, Harris served as vice president of Raytheon Contracts and Supply Chain, where he was responsible for the leadership, direction and performance of both organizations and for the development and implementation of global Supply Chain solutions in the service of customers.
Harris joined Raytheon in 1983 and has held a series of increasingly senior roles in the company, including vice president of Contracts for Raytheons government and defense businesses and vice president of Operations and Contracts for Raytheons former Electronic Systems business.
In this capacity, he was responsible for manufacturing, supply chain management, quality, environmental health and safety, and security for Raytheon Electronic Systems.
Harris served as Raytheon Executive Diversity Champion from January 2007 to December 2008, leading the Executive Diversity Leadership Team and providing strategic direction for the companys diversity and inclusion efforts. In February, 2010, Harris was honored with the prestigious Black Engineer of the Year Award at the BEYA National Conference in Baltimore, Maryland.
Harris has served as Vice Chair of the board of directors of the Urban League of Eastern Massachusetts, is a member of the board of advisors for the National Contract Management Association, the Executive Leadership Council and Foundation, the board of directors of Exostar and the Procurement and Finance Executive Council Committee of the Aerospace Industries Association. He received a bachelors of science degree in business administration with concentrations in finance and operations from Boston University.
RTSC
provides a full spectrum of technical, scientific and professional services to its defense, federal, international, and commercial customers worldwide. It specializes in training, logistics, engineering, product support, and
operational support services and solutions for the Mission Support, homeland security, space, civil aviation, counterproliferation and counterterrorism markets.
Headquartered in Reston, Virginia, RTSC operates in 50 states, 80 countries and on all seven continents. The business has 9,500 employees and its 2009 revenue was
$3.2 billion.
Wilkins Named Vice President of Contracts and Supply Chain
Raytheon has named David Wilkins, 50, vice president,
Raytheon Contracts and Supply Chain, effective immediately. In his new role, Wilkins will join the Raytheon Leadership Team and report directly to Raytheon Chairman and CEO William H. Swanson.
Commenting on Wilkins appointment, Swanson said, David brings a strong background in industry and government to his new role, which will benefit both our company and our customers.
Wilkins previously served as vice president, Contracts for Raytheons Network Centric Systems (NCS) business, based in McKinney, Texas. He
joined Raytheon NCS in January 2002 as director of Contracts for Command, Control and Communications Systems in Marlborough, Mass.
Before joining Raytheon, Wilkins served in a number of positions with increasing responsibility in the aerospace and defense industry. Wilkins has also served as a contracting officer and acquisition analyst at the DoD Space and Missile Systems Center in Los Angeles, Calif., and in the Air Forces Contract Management Division in Anaheim, Calif.
Wilkins is a member of the Maryland Bar and the American Bar Association. He is also a Certified Professional Contract Manager (CPCM) through the National Contract Management Association. He received his bachelors degree in economics and financial management from the University of New Mexico in 1984 and his M.B.A. in 1985. He earned his law degree from Loyola Law School in Los Angeles in 1998. He also graduated from an Executive Graduate Program at the Harvard Business School and the Wharton School of Business in 2000.
Raytheon Company, with 2009 sales of $25 billion, is a technology and innovation leader specializing in defense, homeland security and other government markets throughout the world. With a history of innovation spanning 88 years, Raytheon provides state-of-the-art electronics, mission systems integration and other capabilities in the areas of sensing; effects; and command, control communications and intelligence systems; as well as a broad range of mission support services. With headquarters in Waltham, Mass., Raytheon employs 75,000 people worldwide.


