FILE:APC/APC-8K-20050517091527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Earliest Event Reported: May 12, 2005 Commission File No. 1-8968 ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORPORATION 1201 Lake Robbins Drive, The Woodlands, Texas 77380-1046 (832) 636-1000 - --------------------------- -------------------------------- Incorporated in the Employer Identification State of Delaware No. 76-0146568 - --------------------------- --------------------------------
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement As part of its regular review of director compensation, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved, and the Board of Directors affirmed, certain changes to the annual compensation paid to the Company's non-employee directors. These changes will be effective June 1, 2005. Specifically, the changes are as follows: o The annual retainer for serving as Lead Director was increased from $15,000 to $25,000; and o The annual retainer for membership on the Audit Committee was increased from $3,000 to $6,000. There was no increase in the retainer for service as chairman of the Audit Committee. A full summary of director compensation is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K. Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers (a) Karl F. Kurz, 44, has been elected Senior Vice President - Marketing and General Manager - U.S. Onshore. Mr. Kurz previously served as Vice President of Marketing since November 2003. Prior to that time, he served as Manager, Energy Marketing since 2001, and joined the Company's marketing department in 2000. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kurz served in various positions in the marketing department of Vastar Resources since 1995. (b) James R. Larson, Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, has announced that he plans to retire from the Company by December 31, 2005. In the interim, the Company will be conducting a search for a new chief financial officer. Once his successor has been named, Mr. Larson intends to remain with the Company as Vice President through the end of 2005 to ensure a reasonable transition of his responsibilities. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits 10.1 Summary of Director Compensation (as amended on May 12, 2005 and effective June 1, 2005). 99 Anadarko Press Release, dated May 17, 2005.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized officer. ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORPORATION (Registrant) May 17, 2005 By: /s/ Charlene A. Ripley --------------------------------------- Charlene A. Ripley - Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

EXHIBIT 10.1 SUMMARY OF DIRECTOR COMPENSATION As amended by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's Board of Directors Effective June 1, 2005 Director Compensation In connection with his or her service on the Company's Board of Directors, each non-management director is automatically issued 250 shares of deferred stock (1,000 shares annually) on the first business day of each calendar quarter. The deferred stock will be distributed in shares when the director resigns or retires from the Board. Directors will receive dividends on, and will be entitled to vote, the deferred stock. Upon his or her initial election to the Company's Board of Directors each non-management director is awarded an option to purchase 10,000 shares of common stock. In addition, each non-management director is awarded an annual option to purchase 3,750 shares of common stock. The exercise price for each option grant described above is equal to the fair market value on the date of the grant. In addition to the deferred stock and option grants, the non-management directors receive the following compensation, which he or she may elect to receive in cash, common stock or a combination of both: (1) an annual Board retainer of $50,000; (2) an annual Audit Committee membership retainer of $6,000; (3) an annual committee membership retainer of $3,000 for each of the Compensation and Benefits Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee; (4) a retainer of $15,000 for serving as the chairman of the Compensation and Benefits Committee or the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, a retainer of $25,000 for serving as Audit Committee chairman, a Lead Director retainer of $25,000, and a retainer of $75,000 for serving as non-executive Chairman of the Board; (5) a fee of $2,000 for each Board meeting attended, plus expenses related to attendance; and (6) a fee of $2,000 for each committee meeting attended, plus expenses related to attendance. Mr. Allison, as the non-executive Chairman of the Board, will not receive any compensation for attending committee meetings. Stock Ownership In 2004, the Compensation and Benefits Committee established stock ownership guidelines that require each non-management director to own shares of the Company's common stock equivalent in value to three times the annual Board retainer. Each non-management director will have three years to comply with the stock ownership guidelines.

Exhibit 99 Anadarko Announces a Senior Management Retirement and Two Promotions HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 17, 2005--Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE:APC) today announced an executive retirement and two promotions in its senior management team. James R. Larson, Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, has chosen to retire from Anadarko. "Jim Larson has been an instrumental part of Anadarko for almost 25 years, in fact since the very early days of this company. Every individual has the right to choose when they want to retire and Jim is making that choice now," said Jim Hackett, Anadarko President and CEO. "He plans to retire by the end of this year, but he has assured us he will be available to help us find a replacement and make a reasonable transition. We will truly miss working with Jim and his skills have been invaluable, especially most recently as he has helped develop and execute on our refocused strategy." "I have thought long and hard about this decision and believe that now is a good time for me to retire from Anadarko," said Jim Larson. "I have my health and want time to enjoy it, and the company is healthy as well. I've been fortunate to have been given many exciting professional opportunities here. I have been a part of Anadarko's history from the original spin-off from Panhandle Eastern, to the merger with Union Pacific Resources in 2000 and especially over the last year as we have executed on our refocused strategy. I believe I have helped contribute to the overall financial strength of Anadarko." Karl F. Kurz, formerly Vice President, Marketing, has been promoted to Senior Vice President - Marketing and General Manager - U.S. Onshore. He will take on the additional leadership role of directing the activities of the company's foundation assets in the U.S. onshore areas and will continue to have responsibility for Anadarko's oil and gas marketing and hard minerals business. "Karl has proven to be an extremely capable and talented leader over the years as he has led our marketing and minerals operations," said Jim Hackett, Anadarko President and CEO. "I am certain he will add value to our U.S. onshore portfolio, which is an important area of focus for our company." Michael O. Bridges, currently General Manager - Canada and President - Anadarko Canada Corporation (ACC), has been promoted to Vice President - Canada for Anadarko Petroleum Corporation. He will continue to serve as President of ACC. "Canada is a region that continues to hold considerable promise for Anadarko and Mike's leadership there over the past year has put the Canada team on track to deliver on its goals and continue to generate increased shareholder value," Hackett added. "This promotion names Mike as a corporate officer of APC and emphasizes the importance of his leadership role and the role Canada will play in our future." Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by developing, acquiring and exploring for oil and gas resources vital to the world's health and welfare. As of year-end 2004, the company had 2.37 billion BOE of proved reserves, making it one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies. Anadarko's operational focus extends from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, up through Texas, Louisiana, the Mid-Continent, western U.S. and Canadian Rockies and onto the North Slope of Alaska. Anadarko also has significant production in Algeria, Venezuela and Qatar, and exploration or production positions in several other countries. For more information about how Anadarko is bringing excellence to the surface, please visit: www.anadarko.com. CONTACT: Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, Houston Media Contacts: Teresa Wong, 832-636-1203 teresa_wong@anadarko.com or Investor Contacts: David Larson, 832-636-3265 david_larson@anadarko.com or Stewart Lawrence, 832-636-3326 stewart_lawrence@anadarko.com


