FILE:APC/APC-8K-20060913165641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
     In connection with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's (the "Company") previously announced decision to sell the liquefied natural gas ("LNG") facility in Nova Scotia, called Bear Head (the "Bear Head LNG Facility"), the Company determined that certain transportation agreements previously entered into with Maritimes & Northeast Pipeline, L.L.C. and Maritimes & Northeast Pipeline Limited Partnership (collectively, "Maritimes") are no longer necessary.
     Following discussions with Maritimes, on September 8, 2006, two wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company), Anadarko LNG Marketing LLC and Anadarko Canada LNG Marketing Company, received a notice of termination from Maritimes of the agreements related to the delivery services that were to be provided by Maritimes from the Bear Head LNG Facility to prospective markets in eastern Canada and northeastern United States, under the Precedent Agreement (U.S.), Precedent Agreement (Canada), Service Agreement (U.S.), Service Agreement (Canada), Negotiated Rate Agreement (U.S.) and Base Rate Agreement (U.S.).
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
Gentlemen:
Thank you for your letter of September 1, 2006, in which you provided an update on the status of your LNG supply acquisition. In your letter, you also request a one-year extension of the supply demonstration condition provision under the Precedent Agreement between our two companies.
By way of background, Maritimes & Northeast Pipeline Limited Partnership ("Maritimes") and Anadarko Canada LNG Marketing Corp. ("Anadarko") are parties to a (i) Precedent Agreement ("Precedent Agreement"); and (ii) Service Agreement for Toll Schedule MN365 ("Service Agreement"), each of which was made and entered into on June 29, 2005 (collectively, the "Agreements"). The Agreements were amended by that certain letter agreement dated May 3, 2006, between Maritimes and Anadarko ("May 3 Agreement").
In your September 1, 2006 letter, you explain the continued efforts Anadarko has made to secure supply for the Bear Head LNG terminal. You note the tightness of world LNG supplies and slippage of proposed projects as challenges you have encountered. In addition, your September 1, 2006 letter explains that Anadarko has not reached agreement with an LNG supplier to satisfy the Bear Head LNG receiving terminal throughput requirements.
In the May 3 Agreement, Anadarko and Maritimes agreed to a four-month extension of the expiration date associated with Maritimes' termination option under Paragraph 10(F) of the Precedent Agreement to no later than September 10, 2006. As you know, under Paragraph 10(F), Maritimes has the right to terminate the Agreements, if Anadarko has failed to demonstrate that it has arranged for an adequate quantity of LNG supplies to support the operation of the Bear Head LNG terminal when considering the primary term of Anadarko's Service Agreement. In accordance with
 
September 8, 2006 Page 2
Paragraph 3 of the May 3 Agreement, Maritimes hereby gives written notice of termination of the Agreements, which termination, pursuant to Paragraph 10(F), is effective immediately.
We note in your September 1, 2006 letter that your efforts to obtain LNG supplies for Bear Head remain ongoing. If and when you are successful in securing LNG supplies for Bear Head, we would be interested in discussing transportation service on Maritimes in connection with a future expansion of the system.
Regards,
Douglas P. Bloom President Maritimes & Northeast Pipeline Management Ltd., General Partner of Maritimes & Northeast Pipeline Limited Partnership
cc:      David Anderson (Anadarko) (fax no. (832) 636-8093)

 
Exhibit 10.2
September 8, 2006
Gentlemen:
Thank you for your letter of September 1, 2006, in which you provided an update on the status of your LNG supply acquisition. In your letter, you also request a one-year extension of the supply demonstration condition provision under the Precedent Agreement between our two companies.
By way of background, Maritimes & Northeast Pipeline, L.L.C. ("Maritimes") and Anadarko LNG Marketing LLC ("Anadarko") are parties to a (i) Precedent Agreement ("Precedent Agreement"); (ii) Service Agreement for Rate Schedule MN365 ("Service Agreement"); and (iii) Base Rate Agreement ("Base Rate Agreement"), each of which was made and entered into on June 29, 2005 (collectively, the "Agreements"). The Agreements were amended by that certain letter agreement dated May 3, 2006, between Maritimes and Anadarko ("May 3 Agreement").
In your September 1, 2006 letter, you explain the continued efforts Anadarko has made to secure supply for the Bear Head LNG terminal. You note the tightness of world LNG supplies and slippage of proposed projects as challenges you have encountered. In addition, your September 1, 2006 letter explains that Anadarko has not reached agreement with an LNG supplier to satisfy the Bear Head LNG receiving terminal throughput requirements.
In the May 3 Agreement, Anadarko and Maritimes agreed to a four-month extension of the expiration date associated with Maritimes' termination option under Paragraph 10(F) of the
 
Page 2 September 8, 2006
Precedent Agreement to no later than September 10, 2006. As you know, under Paragraph 10(F), Maritimes has the right to terminate the Agreements, if Anadarko has failed to demonstrate that it has arranged for an adequate quantity of LNG supplies to support the operation of the Bear Head LNG terminal when considering the primary term of Anadarko's Service Agreement. In accordance with Paragraph 4 of the May 3 Agreement, Maritimes hereby gives written notice of termination of the Agreements, which termination, pursuant to Paragraph 10(F), is effective immediately.
We note in your September 1, 2006 letter that your efforts to obtain LNG supplies for Bear Head remain ongoing. If and when you are successful in securing LNG supplies for Bear Head, we would be interested in discussing transportation service on Maritimes in connection with a future expansion of the system.
Yours very truly,
Douglas P. Bloom President M&N Management Company Managing Member of Maritimes & Northeast Pipeline, L.L.C.
cc: David Anderson (Anadarko) (fax no. (832) 636-8093)


