FILE:APC/APC-8K-20060824094544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     On August 23, 2006, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") completed its previously announced acquisition of Western Gas Resources, Inc. ("Western Gas") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 22, 2006, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 7, 2006 (as amended, the "Merger Agreement"), by and among the Company, APC Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub"), and Western Gas. The Company's acquisition of Western Gas was consummated by merging Merger Sub with and into Western Gas with Western Gas surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Western Gas Merger"). The former stockholders of Western Gas have the right to receive $61.00 in cash for each share of Western Gas common stock, which aggregates to cash consideration for the transaction of approximately $4.8 billion, including cash payable to stockholders and holders of all equity awards (net of applicable exercise prices).
     The description of the Western Gas Merger set forth above does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement that was filed by the Company as Exhibit 2.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 26, 2006 (the "Western Gas 8-K"). The description of the Merger Agreement remains subject to the qualifications set forth in the Western Gas 8-K.
     The full text of the press release, dated August 23, 2006, announcing the completion of the Western Gas Merger, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     To finance the Western Gas Merger and to refinance certain of Western Gas' outstanding indebtedness, on August 23, 2006 the Company borrowed approximately $5.5 billion under its $24.0 Billion 364-Day Term Loan Agreement (the "Loan Agreement"), among the Company, as borrower, UBS AG, Stamford Branch, as administrative agent, Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch and Citicorp North America, Inc., as co-syndication agents, and the lenders from time to time party thereto. After giving effect to such borrowing, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Company's borrowings under the Loan Agreement was approximately $22.5 billion.
     The terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement were previously disclosed in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 15, 2006 (the "Prior 8-K"), which is incorporated herein by reference. The Loan Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Prior 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
NEWS
, Aug. 23, 2006  Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC) today announced it has completed the acquisition of Western Gas Resources, Inc. (NYSE: WGR).
HOUSTON
     Western Gas stockholders of record as of the close of business today will receive $61.00 in cash for each share of Western Gas common stock they own. Trading in Western Gas common stock on the New York Stock Exchange will terminate as of the close of trading today. In connection with the transaction, Anadarko has retired all of the outstanding indebtedness of Western Gas.
     "The Western Gas transaction enhances our ability to deliver stronger and more predictable results by bolstering our portfolio of low-risk, long-lived tight gas and coalbed methane resource plays in the Rockies," Anadarko Chairman, President and CEO Jim Hackett said. "In addition, we have acquired a valuable portfolio of gathering, processing and transportation assets. Western Gas Resources employees' proven expertise at building and managing these midstream operations are an important component of the acquisition, as we now have the talent and scale of operations to consider various approaches to maximizing the value of these imbedded assets."
Summary of the Western Gas Resources Transaction
     Anadarko has acquired Western Gas Resources, Inc. in an all-cash transaction totaling $4.8 billion, or $61.00 per Western Gas Resources share, plus the assumption or retirement of debt and other liabilities of approximately $650 million in the aggregate.
     Western Gas Resources year-end 2005 proved reserves totaled 153 million barrels of oil equivalent (BOE), with proved undeveloped reserves representing 57 percent of the total, while 2006 production is expected to total about 12.5 million BOE. Essentially all of the reserves and production are natural gas. Anadarko expects to ultimately recover about 705 million BOE from the Western Gas Resources properties, at a full-cycle E&P cost of approximately $6.7 billion, or less than $10 per BOE (in today's cost environment), including the acquisition cost of the oil and gas properties.
 
 2
     An estimated $1.6 billion of the total acquisition price will be allocated to "midstream" gathering, processing and transportation assets. Virtually all of the remaining value is assigned to two natural gas resource plays in Wyoming: coalbed methane (CBM) in the Powder River Basin, primarily within the Big George coals, and tight gas in the Pinedale field.
     Western Gas Resources CBM properties within the Powder River Basin are estimated to hold about 9 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of original gas in place and are directly adjacent to Anadarko's assets in this developing play. Western Gas Resources also has a 10 percent average working interest in its Pinedale/Jonah joint ventures, which encompass world-class fields totaling more than 40 Tcf of original estimated gas in place. Anadarko expects that combining its properties and skill sets with Western Gas' will accelerate the development of these natural gas resources and produce strong volume growth from these properties through the end of the decade, and possibly longer, with more than 12,000 identified drilling locations in inventory.
Western Gas Resources stockholders seeking details on the timing of cash payments and other issues related to their accounts are encouraged to visit the Shareholder FAQ section under Investor Relations at or contact Mellon Investor Services LLC, the Information and Paying Agent, at 800-777-3674. Mellon will be sending instruction letters to stockholders of record.
www.anadarko.com
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the world's health and welfare. As of year-end 2005, the company had 2.45 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies. In June, Anadarko agreed to acquire Kerr-McGee Corporation (NYSE: KMG) and Western Gas Resources, Inc. (NYSE: WGR) in separate all-cash transactions totaling $21.1 billion, plus the assumption of debt estimated at $2.2 billion. Both of these transactions have now closed. For more information about Anadarko, please visit:
www.anadarko.com.
     
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Anadarko believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this news release. See "Risk Factors" in the company's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other public filings, press releases and discussions with company management. Anadarko undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Anadarko Contacts
Teresa Wong, (832) 636-1203 Susan Richardson, (832) 636-1537
Media
:
teresa.wong@anadarko.com,
susan.richardson@anadarko.com,
John Colglazier, , (832) 636-2306 tewart Lawrence, , (832) 636-3326
Investors
:
john.colglazier@anadarko.com
S
stewart.lawrence@anadarko.com


