FILE:APC/APC-8K-20060908130118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 amends the Current Report on Form 8-K of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation ("Anadarko") filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on August 15, 2006, related to our acquisition of Kerr-McGee Corporation ("Kerr-McGee"). This Form 8-K/A amends the Form 8-K filed August 15, 2006 to include the financial statements and pro forma financial information required by Items 9.01(a) and 9.01(b) of Form 8-K and to include exhibits under Item 9.01(d) of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
The audited consolidated financial statements of Kerr-McGee as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, along with the unaudited supplemental oil and gas disclosures, are attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, and are filed herewith. The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Kerr-McGee as of June 30, 2006, and for the interim periods ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, are attached as Exhibit 99.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, and are filed herewith.
The audited consolidated financial statements of Western Gas Resources, Inc. ("Western") as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, are attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, and are filed herewith. The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Western as of June 30, 2006, and for the interim periods ended June 30, 2006 and are filed herewith.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The pro forma financial information relating to Anadarko's acquisitions of Kerr-McGee and Western is attached as Exhibit 99.6 to this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, and is filed herewith.
(d) Exhibits:
Exhibits not incorporated by reference to a prior filing are designated by an asterisk (*) and are filed herewith; all exhibits not so designated are incorporated herein by reference to a prior filing as indicated.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-3 Nos. 33-8643, 33-30384, 333-65915, 333-88147, 333-103102, 333-86356; and Form S-8 Nos. 33-8643, 33-54485, 333-78301, 333-78303, 333-65420 and 333-126520) of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation and in the related Prospectuses of our report dated March 14, 2006 (except Note 26, as to which the date is September 6, 2006) with respect to the financial statements of Kerr-McGee Corporation included in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A dated September 8, 2006.
/s/    ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
September 6, 2006

Exhibit 23.2
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 and S-8 (No. 33-8643), Form S-3 (No. 333-65915, 333-88147, 333-103102, 333-86356) and Form S-8 (No. 33-54485, 333-78301, 333-78303, 333-65420, 333-126520) of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation of our report dated March 14, 2006, relating to the consolidated financial statements, management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Western Gas Resources, Inc. and subsidiaries, which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation dated September 8, 2006.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Denver, Colorado
September 8, 2006

Exhibit 23.3
The Board of Directors
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation:
We consent to the incorporation by reference of (1) our review letter dated January 27, 2006, relating to our review of the procedures and methods used by Anadarko Petroleum Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively "Anadarko") in preparing its estimates of proved reserves and future revenue for certain oil and gas properties, as of December 31, 2005 originally filed as an exhibit to Anadarko's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about March 3, 2006; (2) our review letter dated January 19, 2006, relating to our review of the procedures and methods used by Kerr-McGee Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively "Kerr-McGee") in preparing its estimates of proved reserves and future revenue for certain oil and gas properties, as of December 31, 2005 originally filed as an exhibit to Kerr-McGee's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about March 15, 2006; and (3) our reserve reports setting forth the interests of Western Gas Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively "Western") relating to the estimated quantities of certain of Western's proved reserves of oil and gas for the year's 2005, 2004 and 2003 originally included in Western's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about March 14, 2006 into the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Houston, Texas
September 6, 2006

Exhibit 99.2
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
The Stockholder
Kerr-McGee Corporation
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Kerr-McGee Corporation as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income and stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Kerr-McGee Corporation at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, . As discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, effective December 31, 2003, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 46, .
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
March 14, 2006,
except for Note 26, as to which the date is
September 6, 2006
 
 
 
 
The "successful efforts" method of accounting for oil and gas exploration and production activities has been followed in preparing this balance sheet.
 
 
 
 
Components of other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows (net of taxes and reclassification adjustments, which are presented in Note 8).
 
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1.
The Company and Significant Accounting Policies
The Company
Kerr-McGee is an independent exploration and production company that explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil and natural gas, with major areas of operation in the United States and China. Exploration efforts also extend to the North Slope of Alaska and offshore West Africa, Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago. As of December 31, 2005, Kerr-McGee also owned 56.7% of Tronox, a former wholly-owned subsidiary. Tronox is primarily engaged in the production and marketing of titanium dioxide, a white pigment used in a wide range of products. Tronox has production facilities in the United States, Australia, Germany and the Netherlands. The terms "Kerr-McGee," "the company," "we," "our," and similar terms are used interchangeably in these consolidated financial statements to refer to the consolidated group or to one or more of the companies that are part of the consolidated group. The term "Tronox" is used interchangeably in this Form 10-K to refer to Tronox Incorporated, one or more of its subsidiaries or the consolidated group of Tronox Incorporated and its subsidiaries.
Information in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto has been updated since their original issuance in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 to reflect the effects of certain events that occurred subsequent to that date, as discussed in Note 26.
In 2005, the company made a number of strategic decisions in an effort to reposition Kerr-McGee as a pure-play exploration and production company and enhance value for its stockholders. The company's strategic plan includes the separation of the chemical business and divestitures of certain oil and gas assets, as more fully discussed below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant Accounting Policies
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all subsidiary companies controlled by Kerr-McGee and the proportionate share of unincorporated joint ventures in which the company has an undivided interest. Minority interest represents minority shareholders' proportionate share of the equity of Tronox. All material intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
Basis of Presentation
Investments in entities over which Kerr-McGee has significant influence, but not control, are carried at cost adjusted for equity in undistributed earnings and distributions. Equity in undistributed earnings of such entities is included in other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates as additional information becomes known.
With the separation of the chemical business, the income statement format for all periods presented has been changed to better reflect the operations of an exploration and production company. The operating results of and other costs directly associated with Tronox and the company's North Sea oil and gas business are reported as discontinued operations. Unless indicated otherwise, information presented in the footnotes to the financial statements relates only to the company's continuing operations.
Reclassifications
The U.S. dollar is considered the functional currency for each of the company's international operations, except for Tronox's European operations. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses are recognized in the period incurred and are included in other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The euro is the functional currency for Tronox's European operations. Translation adjustments resulting from translating the functional currency financial statements into U.S. dollar equivalents are reflected as a separate component of other comprehensive income (loss).
Foreign Currency Translation
The company considers all investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents held by the company at December 31, 2005 and 2004 were $923 million and $17 million, respectively, and were comprised of time deposits, certificates of deposit and U.S. government securities.
Cash Equivalents
Accounts receivable are reflected at their net realizable value, reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts to allow for expected credit losses. The allowance is estimated by management, based on factors such as age of the related receivables and historical experience, giving consideration to customer profiles. The company does not generally charge interest on accounts receivable; however, certain operating agreements have provisions for interest and penalties that may be invoked, if deemed necessary. Accounts receivable are aged in accordance with contract terms and are written off when deemed uncollectible. Any subsequent recoveries of amounts written off are credited to the allowance for doubtful accounts.
Accounts Receivable and Receivable Sales
Through 2005, Tronox had an accounts receivable monetization program. Information regarding the program is provided in Note 11.
 
The company has significant credit risk exposure due to concentration of its crude oil and natural gas receivables with several significant customers. The largest purchaser of Kerr-McGee's natural gas production accounted for 29% of total crude oil and natural gas sales revenues in 2005. To reduce credit risk, the company performs evaluations of its customers' financial condition, including establishing credit limits for its customers, and uses credit risk insurance policies from time to time as deemed appropriate to mitigate credit risk. Additionally, the company requires certain customers to post letters of credit, provide parent company guarantees or make prepayments from time to time as deemed appropriate to mitigate credit risk.
Concentration of Credit Risk
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The costs of the company's product inventories are determined by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Inventory carrying values include material costs, labor and associated indirect manufacturing expenses. Costs for materials and supplies, excluding ore, are determined by average cost to acquire. Raw materials (ore) are carried at actual cost.
Inventories
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred, except that costs of replacements or renewals that improve or extend the lives of existing properties are capitalized.
 Exploration expenditures, including geological and geophysical costs, delay rentals and exploration department overhead are charged against earnings as incurred. Costs of drilling exploratory wells are capitalized pending determination of whether proved reserves can be attributed to the discovery. If management determines that commercial quantities of hydrocarbons have not been discovered, capitalized costs associated with exploratory wells are charged to dry hole costs. Costs of successful exploratory wells, all developmental wells, production equipment and facilities are capitalized and then depleted using the unit-of-production method by field as oil and gas are produced.
Exploration and Production
Individual undeveloped leases in the U.S. with an original acquisition cost of greater than $2 million are assessed periodically for impairment based on the company's current exploration plans and a valuation allowance is provided if impairment is indicated. Lease acquisition costs on unproved oil and gas properties whose acquisition costs are not individually significant are amortized over their lease terms at rates that provide for full amortization of unsuccessful leases upon abandonment. Costs of abandoned leases are charged against the valuation allowance, while costs of productive leases are transferred to proved oil and gas properties. Under this method, the cost of all unsuccessful leases is charged to exploration expense, while the cost of successful activities becomes part of the carrying amount of proved oil and gas properties. In the case of unproved property costs associated with proved reserves acquired in a business combination, recoverability is assessed on a field-by-field basis and a loss is recognized, if indicated, based on the results of drilling activity, planned future drilling activity and management's estimate of the remaining value attributed to the probable and possible reserves. Unproved acquisition costs not expected to be recovered are charged to expense when that determination is made, while successful activities become part of the carrying amount of proved properties.
 Property, plant and equipment is depreciated or depleted over its estimated life using the unit-of-production or the straight-line method. Successful exploratory wells and development costs are amortized using the unit-of-production method based on total estimated proved developed oil and gas reserves. Producing leasehold, platform costs, asset retirement costs and acquisition costs of proved properties are amortized using the unit-of-production method based on total estimated proved reserves. Non-oil and gas assets are depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives.
Depreciation and Depletion
 The cost and related depreciation, depletion and amortization reserves are removed from the respective accounts upon retirement or sale of property, plant and equipment.
Retirements and Sales
 Effective July 1, 2005, the company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 153, "Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an Amendment of APB Opinion No. 29" (FAS No. 153), for exchanges of nonmonetary assets occurring after the implementation date. Prior to implementing FAS No. 153, the company generally did not recognize gains on nonmonetary exchanges involving proved oil and gas properties; however, for exchange transactions involving monetary consideration (if such consideration was less than 25% of the fair value of assets exchanged), a
Asset Exchanges
 
proportionate amount of the indicated gain was recognized based on the percentage of monetary consideration received. Exchanges of proved oil and gas properties involving receipt of monetary consideration of 25% or more were accounted for at fair value with full gain recognition. According to the provisions of FAS No. 153, all nonmonetary asset exchanges that have commercial substance, as defined, will be measured at fair value with gain or loss recognized in earnings.
The company capitalizes interest costs on major projects that require an extended period of time to complete. Interest capitalized in 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $28 million, $13 million and $10 million, respectively.
Capitalized Interest 
Proved oil and gas properties are reviewed for impairment on a field-by-field basis when facts and circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. In performing this review, future net cash flows are calculated based on estimated future oil and gas sales revenues less future expenditures necessary to develop and produce the reserves. If the sum of these estimated future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the property, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the property's carrying amount over its estimated fair value based on estimated discounted future cash flows.
Asset Impairments
Other assets are reviewed for impairment by asset group for which the lowest level of independent cash flows can be identified. If the sum of these estimated future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the assets, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over its estimated fair value.
Assets are classified as held for sale when the company commits to a plan to sell the assets and completion of the sale is probable and expected to occur within one year. Upon classification as held-for-sale, long-lived assets are no longer depreciated or depleted and a loss is recognized, if any, based on the excess of carrying value over fair value less costs to sell. Previous losses may be reversed up to the original carrying value as estimates are revised; however, gains are recognized only upon disposition.
Assets Held for Sale
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the purchase price of an acquired entity over the fair values of individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles are not amortized but are reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. The annual assessment for goodwill impairment is completed as of June 30 each year. Based upon the most recent assessment, no impairment was indicated. Intangibles with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Intangibles subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever impairment indicators are present.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The company accounts for all derivative financial instruments in accordance with FASB Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (FAS No. 133). Derivative instruments are recorded as assets or liabilities at fair value. Fair value is estimated based on market quotes for exchange-traded futures contracts, if available, or dealer quotes for financial instruments with similar characteristics. An option-pricing model is used to determine fair value of option-based derivative instruments, such as collars.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
The company uses futures, forwards, options, collars and swaps to reduce the effects of fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on derivative instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges and that qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions of FAS No. 133 are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of hedge ineffectiveness which is included in current earnings. Realized hedging gains and losses are recognized in earnings in the periods during which the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings. For discontinued cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recognized in earnings prospectively through the remaining duration of the contracts. Unrealized gains or losses recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) prior to the hedging relationship being discontinued remain in stockholders' equity until the original hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings.
 
Derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges or that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting and those designated as fair-value hedges under FAS No. 133 are recorded at fair value, with gains or losses reported currently in earnings (together with offsetting gains or losses on the hedged item for fair value hedges).
Cash flows associated with derivative instruments are included in the same category in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows as the cash flows from the item being hedged, unless a derivative instrument includes an other-than-insignificant financing element at inception, in which case associated cash flows are reflected in cash flows from financing activities.
As sites of environmental concern are identified, the company assesses the existing conditions, claims and assertions, and records an estimated undiscounted liability when environmental assessments and/or remedial efforts are probable and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated. Estimates of environmental liabilities, which include the cost of investigation and remediation, are based on a variety of matters, including, but not limited to, the stage of investigation, the stage of the remedial design, evaluation of existing remediation technologies, and presently enacted laws and regulations. In future periods, a number of factors could significantly change the company's estimate of environmental remediation costs, such as changes in laws and regulations, or changes in their interpretation or administration, revisions to the remedial design, unanticipated construction problems, identification of additional areas or volumes of contaminated soil and groundwater, and changes in costs of labor, equipment and technology.
Environmental Remediation and Other Contingencies
To the extent costs of investigation and remediation have been incurred and are recoverable from the U.S. government under Title X of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, from insurers under certain insurance policies or other parties, and such recoveries are deemed probable, the company records a receivable for the estimated amounts recoverable (undiscounted). Receivables are reflected as either current or long-term assets depending on estimated timing of collection.
An asset retirement obligation (ARO) associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset is recognized as a liability in the period incurred or when it becomes determinable (as defined by the standard), with an associated increase in the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. The cost of the tangible asset, including the asset retirement cost, is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. The company adopted the standard on January 1, 2003, which resulted in a charge to earnings of $35 million (net of an income tax benefit of $18 million) to recognize the cumulative effect of adopting the new standard.
Asset Retirement Obligations
In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations - An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143" (FIN No. 47) to clarify that an entity must recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation when incurred, if the liability's fair value can be reasonably estimated. Conditional asset retirement obligations under this pronouncement are legal obligations to perform asset retirement activities when the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future event or may not be within the control of the entity. FIN No. 47 also provides additional guidance for evaluating whether sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation is available. The company adopted FIN No. 47 as of December 31, 2005 with no material effect to the company's financial position or results of operations and no effect on reported cash flows.
The company accrues an ARO associated with its oil and gas wells and platforms when those assets are placed in service. The ARO is recorded at its estimated fair value and accretion expense is recognized over time as the discounted liability is accreted to its expected settlement value. Fair value is measured using expected future cash outflows discounted at the company's credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate. No market-risk premium has been included in the company's calculation of ARO balances since no reliable estimate can be made by the company.
The company records treasury stock purchases at cost, which includes incremental direct transaction costs. Upon retirement of repurchased shares, the excess of purchase cost over associated common stock par value and preferred stock purchase rights is allocated to capital in excess of par value, with the remaining cost, if any, charged against retained earnings. The allocation to capital in excess of par value is based on the per-share amount of capital in excess of par value for all shares.
Repurchases and Retirements of Capital Stock
 
Employee Stock-Based Compensation
 The company accounts for its stock-based awards, which consist of fixed-price stock options, restricted stock and performance units, under the intrinsic-value method permitted by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB No. 25). Performance units provide for cash awards based on the company's achievement of specified total stockholder return targets over a stated period. In accordance with APB No. 25, compensation cost associated with stock-based awards is determined using the following measurement principles:
Intrinsic-Value Method
 
 
 
 
The aggregate intrinsic value of restricted stock and stock options granted is initially recognized as an increase in common stock and capital in excess of par value, with a corresponding increase in deferred compensation cost in stockholders' equity. Deferred compensation is amortized ratably as a reduction of earnings over the vesting periods of the underlying grants or over the service period, if shorter.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS No. 123), prescribes an alternative fair-value method of accounting for employee stock-based awards. Following this method, compensation expense for such awards is measured based on the estimated grant-date fair value and recognized as the related employee services are provided. If compensation expense for stock-based awards had been determined using the fair value-based method, net income would have been lower, as presented in the following table. Pro forma stock-based compensation expense presented below may not be representative of future compensation expense using the fair-value method of accounting as the number and terms of awards granted in a particular year may not be indicative of the number and terms of awards granted in future years.
Pro Forma Fair-Value Method 
 
 
The following table presents inputs and assumptions used to estimate the grant-date fair value of employee stock options that had no intrinsic value on the fair value measurement date.
 
While all options granted in 2005 had the same contractual terms, for some of the options, the compensation cost measurement date, as defined by FAS No. 123, occurred subsequent to the date on which the options' exercise price was set. Because the market price of Kerr-McGee's stock increased by the measurement date, those options had intrinsic value of $18.26 and an estimated fair value of $22.89, on a pre-split basis, which was determined using the following assumptions: expected life of six years, risk-free interest rate of 4.0%, expected dividend yield of 3.5% and expected volatility of 26.2%.
 In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" (FAS No. 123R), which replaces FAS No. 123 and supersedes APB No. 25. FAS No. 123R requires all share-based payments to employees to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. The company adopted FAS No. 123R effective January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective method, as permitted by the standard. The modified prospective method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all unvested share-based compensation awards at the beginning of the first quarter of adoption. The following provides a summary of some of the implementation effects of this standard:
New Accounting Standard
 
 
 
 
 The company has a leveraged ESOP plan with sponsor financing. Sponsor financing is excluded from debt balances in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. The company stock owned by the ESOP trust is held in a loan suspense account. Deferred compensation, representing the unallocated ESOP shares, is reflected as a reduction of stockholders' equity. The company's matching contributions and dividends on the shares held by the ESOP trust are used to repay the debt, and stock is released from the loan suspense account as the principal and interest are paid. The expense is recognized and stock is then allocated to participants' accounts at market value as the participants' contributions are made to the Savings Investment Plan (SIP). Dividends paid on the common stock held in participants' accounts are also used to repay the loans, and stock with a value equal to the amount of dividends is allocated to participants' accounts. All ESOP shares are considered outstanding for earnings per share calculations. Dividends on ESOP shares are charged to retained earnings.
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
Revenue derived from product sales is recognized when persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Oil and gas sales involving balancing arrangements among partners are recognized as revenues when the oil or gas is sold using the entitlements method of accounting based on the company's net working interest and a receivable or deferred revenue is recorded for any imbalance. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, both the quantity and dollar amount of oil and gas balancing arrangements were immaterial.
Revenue Recognition
All amounts billed to a customer in a chemical sales transaction related to shipping and handling represent revenues earned and are reported as revenues. Costs incurred by the company for shipping and handling, including transportation costs paid to third-party shippers to transport oil and gas production, are reported as an expense.
Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs
Deferred income taxes are provided to reflect the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, except for deferred taxes on income considered to be indefinitely reinvested in certain foreign subsidiaries.
Income Taxes
2. Discontinued Operations and Asset Divestitures and Exchanges
 As discussed in Note 1, the company made a number of strategic decisions in 2005 with the goal of repositioning Kerr-McGee as a pure-play exploration and production company and enhancing value for its stockholders. The company's strategic plan includes divestitures of certain lower-growth or shorter-life and higher-decline oil and gas assets, including the company's North Sea oil and gas business and selected oil and gas properties in the U.S., and the separation of the chemical business. At the same time, the company is accelerating its U.S. onshore development activities, with a focus on the Wattenberg and Greater Natural Buttes areas. Management believes this strategy will result in a property base weighted toward longer-life, less capital-intensive properties that will provide greater stability of production and production replacement, while the company's exploration program in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and other areas will continue to provide growth opportunities.
Overview
The following summarizes divestiture transactions completed in 2005 and through August 2006. In addition, as discussed in Notes 3 and 26, the company completed the Tronox IPO in November 2005 and distributed its remaining interest in Tronox in March 2006. The net proceeds from the 2005 divestitures and the separation of Tronox were used for debt repayment and other corporate purposes. Debt repayments made in 2005 and early 2006 are discussed in Note 10.
 
 
 
 Income from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income relates to the company's North Sea oil and gas business and Tronox. The following summarizes the amounts included in income from discontinued operations for all periods presented:
Discontinued Operations
 
 
Under the company's $5.25 billion secured credit agreement, the company was required to use 100% of the net after-tax cash proceeds from disposition of certain assets to repay debt. Because the North Sea oil and gas and Tronox assets were subject to this requirement, interest expense on debt that was required to be repaid upon the sale of the North Sea business and the Tronox IPO ($92 million and $24 million, respectively) is classified as a component of income from discontinued operations (or $75 million on an after-tax basis). Interest expense was allocated to discontinued operations beginning in May 2005, to coincide with initial borrowings under the term loans requiring mandatory prepayments.
The following presents a reconciliation of the U.S. Federal income tax rate to the company's effective tax rates for income from discontinued operations.
 
 In August 2005, the company entered into agreements to sell its North Sea oil and gas business for cash consideration of approximately $3.5 billion. The North Sea business included proved reserves of 234 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMboe) at closing and produced a daily average of 65,500 barrels of oil equivalent during the third quarter of 2005, representing approximately 20% of the company's production during that period (unaudited). The two-step transaction pursuant to the agreements includes:
North Sea Oil and Gas Business
 
 
 Refer to Notes 3 and 26 for information regarding the Tronox separation.
Tronox
 The following table presents the composition of net assets associated with discontinued operations and assets reported as held for sale as of December 31, 2005 and 2004:
Assets Held for Sale and of Discontinued Operations
 
 
Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the company's interests in oil and gas properties on the Gulf of Mexico shelf met the criteria for reporting as held for sale. As discussed in Note 26, the sale was completed in August 2006, for $1 billion in cash. The following presents the main classes of assets and liabilities associated with the Gulf of Mexico shelf properties as of December 31, 2005 (in millions of dollars):
 
3.
Separation of Tronox
Information in this footnote should be read in connection with Note 26 that provides additional information regarding the Tronox Distribution,
In November 2005, the company completed an IPO of 17.5 million shares of Class A common stock of Tronox, the subsidiary holding Kerr-McGee's chemical business. Concurrent with the IPO, Tronox, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, issued $350 million in aggregate principal amount of 9.5% senior unsecured notes due 2012 and borrowed $200 million under a six-year senior secured credit facility. Pursuant to the terms of the Master Separation Agreement (MSA), Tronox distributed to Kerr-McGee the net proceeds from the IPO of $225 million, as well as the net proceeds from the borrowings of approximately $535 million and cash on hand in excess of $40 million.
As a result of the IPO, Kerr-McGee recorded an increase in capital in excess of par value of $19 million related to the excess of the IPO price over the book value of the shares sold. Following the IPO, approximately 43.3% of the total outstanding common stock of Tronox is publicly held and 56.7% is held by Kerr-McGee. Kerr-McGee owns all of Tronox's Class B common stock (approximately 23 million shares), which is entitled to six votes per share on all matters to be voted on by Tronox's stockholders, representing approximately 88.7% of Tronox's total voting power. On March 8, 2006, the Board declared a dividend of Tronox's Class B common stock owned by Kerr-McGee to its stockholders. Kerr-McGee expects to distribute to its stockholders approximately .20 of a share of Tronox Class B common stock for each outstanding share of Kerr-McGee common stock they own on the record date of March 20, 2006. The final distribution ratio will be set on the record date. Cash will be delivered in lieu of fractional share interests to Kerr-McGee stockholders entitled to receive a fraction of a share of Tronox Class B common stock. The Distribution is expected to be completed on March 30, 2006.
Under the terms of the MSA, Kerr-McGee transferred to Tronox the subsidiaries holding and operating Kerr-McGee's chemical business. Some of these subsidiaries previously were engaged in the production of ammonium perchlorate, the manufacturing of thorium compounds, treatment of forest products, the refining and marketing of petroleum products, the mining, milling and processing of nuclear materials and other businesses. These subsidiaries are subject to environmental obligations associated with their current and former operations. Under the terms of the MSA, Kerr-McGee agreed to reimburse Tronox for a portion of the environmental remediation costs incurred and paid by Tronox and its subsidiaries prior to November 28, 2012, to the extent such costs, net of any reimbursements received from insurers or other parties, exceed the carrying value of Tronox's environmental reserves as of November 28, 2005, the date the IPO was completed. Additional discussion regarding environmental obligations and Kerr-McGee's seven-year reimbursement obligation is provided in Note 16.
Historically, employees of the company's chemical business participated in stock-based compensation, pension and postretirement plans established by Kerr-McGee. As more fully discussed in Note 19, except for vested stock options and performance unit awards, Kerr-McGee's stock-based awards held by Tronox employees generally will be forfeited on the effective date of the Distribution and replaced with stock-based awards of comparable value issued by Tronox. Tronox also is expected to establish pension and postretirement plans for its U.S. employees and assume the benefit obligations associated with its current and former employees following the Distribution. Kerr-McGee also will transfer trust assets to the newly established Tronox U.S. pension plan to fund the transferred obligation in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Note 15 provides additional information regarding the anticipated effects of the separation on the company's obligations for pension and postretirement health and welfare benefits.
 
4.
Westport Resources Merger
On June 25, 2004, Kerr-McGee completed a merger with Westport Resources Corporation (Westport), an independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast areas onshore U.S. and in the Gulf of Mexico. The merger increased Kerr-McGee's proved reserves by 281 MMboe (unaudited). On the effective date of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of Westport common stock was converted into .71 shares of Kerr-McGee common stock (on a pre-split basis). As a result, Kerr-McGee issued 48.9 million shares of common stock to Westport's stockholders valued at $2.4 billion based on Kerr-McGee's weighted average stock price two days before and after the merger was publicly announced. Kerr-McGee also exchanged 1.9 million stock options (on a pre-split basis) for options held by Westport employees with a fair value of $34 million.
On June 25, 2004, after completion of the merger, Kerr-McGee paid down all outstanding borrowings under the Westport revolving credit facility and the facility was terminated on July 13, 2004.
During June 2004, Kerr-McGee purchased Westport's 8.25% notes with an aggregate principal amount of $14 million ($16 million fair value). On July 1, 2004, Kerr-McGee issued a notice of redemption for the remaining 8.25% Westport notes and the notes were redeemed on July 31, 2004, at an aggregate redemption price of $786 million. The redemption price consisted of the face value of $700 million, less the amount previously purchased by Kerr-McGee of $14 million, plus a make-whole premium of $100 million.
On July 1, 2004, Kerr-McGee issued $650 million of 6.95% notes due July 1, 2024, with interest payable semi-annually. The notes were issued at 99.2% of par, resulting in a discount of $5 million, which will be recognized as additional interest expense over the term of the notes. The proceeds from this debt issuance, together with proceeds from borrowings under the company's revolving credit facilities, were used to redeem the 8.25% Westport notes discussed above.
In exchange for Westport's common stock and options, Kerr-McGee issued stock valued at $2.4 billion, options valued at $34 million and assumed debt of $1 billion, for a total of $3.5 billion (net of $43 million of cash acquired). The fair value assigned to assets acquired and goodwill totaled $4.6 billion. Westport's assets and liabilities are reflected in the company's balance sheet at December 31, 2004, and Westport's results of operations are included in the company's Statement of Income from June 25, 2004. The purchase price was allocated to specific assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values at the merger date, with $804 million recorded as goodwill and $561 million recorded for net deferred tax liabilities (as adjusted for final merger-date tax basis and loss carryforwards). In 2005, the company completed its analysis of merger-date tax basis, which resulted in a reduction of net deferred tax liabilities by $35 million and a commensurate decrease in goodwill, due to higher than initially estimated tax basis and loss carryforwards.
The strategic benefits of the merger and the principal factors that contributed to Kerr-McGee recognizing goodwill are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The condensed balance sheet information presented below shows the allocation of purchase price to Westport's assets and liabilities as of the merger date after taking into account the final tax analysis discussed above.
 
The pro forma information presented below has been prepared to give effect to the Westport merger as if it had occurred at the beginning of the periods presented. The pro forma information is presented for illustrative purposes only and is based on estimates and assumptions deemed appropriate by Kerr-McGee. If the Westport merger had occurred in the past, Kerr-McGee's operating results would have been different from those reflected in the pro forma information below; therefore, the pro forma information should not be relied upon as an indication of the operating results that Kerr-McGee would have achieved if the merger had occurred at the beginning of each period presented. The pro forma information also should not be used as an indication of the results that Kerr-McGee will achieve in future periods.
 
5.
Statement of Income Data
 Impairment losses of $17 million in 2005 related primarily to a U.S. onshore property in Texas where unsuccessful drilling resulted in a reduction in proved undeveloped reserves ($10 million) and two U.S. Gulf of Mexico shelf properties that ceased producing in the first quarter. Impairment losses of $21 million in 2004 related primarily to a U.S. Gulf of Mexico field that ceased production sooner than expected. The 2003 impairments of $14 million related to mature oil and gas producing assets in the U.S. onshore and Gulf of Mexico shelf areas.
Asset Impairments
 
Additionally, in 2004 Tronox recognized an impairment loss of $8 million associated with the shutdown of sulfate-process titanium dioxide pigment production at its Savannah, Georgia facility. This charge is reflected in income from discontinued operations, net of taxes.
Net gains (losses) on sale of assets in 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $211 million, $(29) million and $30 million, respectively. Note 2 provides information regarding 2005 gains on sales of assets. The 2004 loss was associated primarily with the conveyance of the company's interest in a nonproducing Gulf of Mexico field to another participating partner ($25 million), as well as losses of $6 million and gains of $2 million on sales of noncore properties in the Gulf of Mexico shelf and U.S. onshore areas. A net gain of $30 million was recognized in 2003 upon concluding the company's 2002 divestiture program in the U.S., and for the sale of the company's interest in the South China Sea (Liuhua field) and other noncore U.S. properties.
Gain (Loss) on Sale of Assets
Other income (expense) includes the following:
Other Income (Expense)
 
 Basic earnings per share includes no dilution and is computed by dividing income or loss from continuing operations available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if security interests were exercised or converted into common stock.
Earnings per Share
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
 
The weighted average of diluted shares outstanding during 2004 and 2003 does not include the effect of employee stock options that were antidilutive because they were not "in the money" during the respective years. At December 31, 2004 and 2003 there were 6 million and 9.8 million of such options outstanding, with weighted average exercise prices of $31.82 and $30.13, respectively. All options outstanding at December 31, 2005 were "in the money."
 
In March 2005, all of the 5.25% debentures were converted by the holders into 9.8 million shares of common stock (on a pre-split basis). Accordingly, shares issued upon conversion of the debentures are included in basic earnings per share from the conversion date and in diluted earnings per share for periods prior to conversion.
In January 2006, the Board of Directors approved a $1 billion stock repurchase program. Note 26 provides information on share repurchases made under this program through August 2006. Additionally, as discussed in Note 19, subsequent to year-end 2005 the company issued additional stock options and restricted stock to its employees.
6.
Balance Sheet Data
 Property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005 and 2004, is as follows:
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
 Deferred charges, derivatives and other assets include the following at December 31, 2005 and 2004:
Deferred Charges, Derivatives and Other Assets
 
 Goodwill and other intangible assets recorded in the Westport merger were $839 million and $35 million, respectively, at the merger date. As discussed in Note 4, in 2005 the company refined its estimate of merger-date tax basis and loss carryforwards and reduced net deferred tax liabilities by $35 million, with a commensurate decrease in goodwill.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for 2005 and 2004 are as follows:
 
 
Intangible assets subject to amortization at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:
 
Intangible asset amortization expense associated with continuing operations was $10 million, $6 million and $5 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The estimated amortization expense for the next five years totals $22 million, ranging from $4 million to $6 million annually. The remaining weighted average amortization period for the transportation contracts is 7 years.
 Accrued liabilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:
Accrued Liabilities
 
Other noncurrent liabilities consist of the following at year-end 2005 and 2004:
Other Noncurrent Liabilities
 
 
 A summary of the changes in the ARO liability during 2005 and 2004 is included in the table below and reflects activity associated with the North Sea oil and gas business, which was sold in 2005, and Tronox:
Asset Retirement Obligations
 
As discussed in Note 14, Tronox shut down its synthetic rutile plant in Mobile, Alabama, in 2003. In September 2004, Tronox shut down sulfate and gypsum production at its Savannah, Georgia, plant. Until the decisions to shut down these facilities had been made, it was indeterminable when the asset retirement liability associated with these facilities would be settled. Upon deciding to shut down the facilities, the timing of settlement became estimable and the related asset retirement obligation was recorded at the estimated fair value. For the synthetic rutile plant in Mobile, Alabama, an $18 million liability was recognized at the beginning of 2003. For the sulfate production facility at the company's Savannah, Georgia, plant, an abandonment liability of $13 million was recognized in September 2004.
Operations at Tronox's Mobile, Alabama, facility included production of feedstock for titanium dioxide pigment plant. The facility ceased feedstock production in June 2003, though it is still being used to dry ore for titanium dioxide production. Feedstock operations had resulted in minor contamination of groundwater adjacent to surface impoundments. A groundwater recovery system was installed prior to closure and continues in operation as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. Remediation work, including groundwater recovery, closure of the impoundments and other minor work, is expected to be substantially completed five years after the facility is no longer being used to dry ore. As of December 31, 2005, Tronox had a remaining abandonment reserve of $17 million. Although actual costs may exceed current estimates, the amount of any increases cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
An abandonment reserve related to Tronox's titanium dioxide pigment sulfate production at Savannah, Georgia, was established to address probable remediation activities, including environmental assessment, closure of certain impoundments, groundwater monitoring, asbestos abatement and other work, expected to take more than 25 years. As of December 31, 2005, Tronox's reserve balance was approximately $14 million. Although actual costs may exceed current estimates, the amount of any increase cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
 
7.
Cash Flow Statement Data
For all periods presented, cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and supplemental cash flow data provided below include effects of discontinued operations.
Net cash provided by operating activities reflects cash payments for income taxes and interest as follows:
 
Other noncash items included in the reconciliation of net income to net cash provided by operating activities include the following:
 
Details of changes in other assets and liabilities within the operating section of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are as follows:
 
 
Information about noncash investing and financing activities not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows follows:
 
 
8.
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Components of other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows. Activity and balances presented below include discontinued operations.
 
Components of accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2005 and 2004, net of applicable tax effects, are as follows:
 
9. Derivative Instruments
The company is exposed to risk from fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To reduce the impact of these risks on earnings and to increase the predictability of its cash flows, the company enters into certain derivative contracts, primarily swaps and collars for a portion of its future oil and natural gas production, forward contracts to buy and sell foreign currencies and interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value of its fixed-rate debt.
 
The following tables summarize the balance sheet presentation of the company's derivatives as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. Derivative assets and liabilities associated with Tronox and the North Sea oil and gas business are included in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
 
 
The following tables summarize the gain (loss) on the company's derivative instruments associated with continuing operations and its classification in the Consolidated Statement of Income for each of the last three years:
 
 The company periodically enters into financial derivative instruments that generally fix the commodity prices to be received for a portion of its future sales of oil and natural gas produced. The fair value of the company's oil and gas commodity derivative instruments was determined based on prices actively quoted, generally NYMEX prices.
Oil and Gas Commodity Derivatives
 For the year ended December 31, 2005, as a result of significantly increased commodity prices and widening differentials between NYMEX forward prices and expected future oil and gas sales prices, the company recognized losses on hedge ineffectiveness of $206 million, associated with its commodity derivative instruments designated as hedges of future oil and gas sales. These losses represent the excess of mark-to-market losses on the company's commodity derivatives over the higher cash flows expected to be realized upon sales of hedged production.
Hedge Ineffectiveness
 Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from derivative instruments that have not been designated as hedges or that do not qualify for hedge accounting ("nonhedge derivatives") are recognized in current earnings. Historically, such gains and losses have primarily related to certain contracts acquired in the Westport merger that do not qualify for hedge accounting as well as natural gas basis swaps that have not been designated in a hedging relationship. At the date of the merger, Westport's costless and three-way collars did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment because they represented "net written options" at the merger date. As a result, even though these collars help mitigate commodity price risk, the company recognizes mark-to-market gains and losses in earnings currently, rather than deferring such amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). We recognized net mark-to-market losses of $45 million and $23 million during 2005 and 2004, respectively, associated with these Westport-related collars and our nonhedge natural gas basis swaps.
Nonhedge Derivatives
A significant portion of 2006 and 2007 natural gas derivatives entered into during 2005 were assigned as hedges of future production from our Rocky Mountain properties. At the time the company entered into these derivatives, physical sales prices in the Rocky Mountains correlated well with NYMEX natural gas prices; however, beginning in the second half of 2005, basis differentials began to widen and continued to widen throughout the year as NYMEX natural gas prices reached historical levels. In the fourth quarter, our correlation assessment indicated that NYMEX natural gas derivatives could no longer be considered "highly effective" hedges under the parameters of the accounting rules. Consequently, we discontinued hedge accounting effective October 1, 2005 for all 2006/2007 natural gas derivatives assigned to the Rocky Mountains (except those matched with basis swaps) and recognized a net mark-to-market nonhedge gain of $7 million in the fourth quarter.
 
 As a result of two major hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico late in the third quarter of 2005, the company's physical deliveries to certain Gulf of Mexico sales indices in the third and fourth quarters of 2005 were insufficient to cover the associated derivative contracts in place. Consequently, the company recognized realized losses of $119 million in 2005 associated with certain derivative contracts in excess of hedged physical deliveries for 2005. Such losses are reported as overhedge derivative losses in revenues.
Overhedge Derivative Loss
 At December 31, 2005, the net after-tax loss on oil and gas derivatives in accumulated other comprehensive loss relates to a portion of the company's expected oil and gas sales through 2007. The company expects to reclassify $617 million of the total net after-tax derivative loss from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings during the next 12 months, assuming no further changes in the fair value of the related contracts.
Hedge Gains (Losses) in Equity
 Because a large portion of the company's natural gas derivatives no longer qualify for hedge accounting and to increase clarity in its financial statements, the company elected to discontinue hedge accounting prospectively for its commodity derivatives beginning March 1, 2006. Consequently, from that date forward, the company will recognize mark-to-market gains and losses in earnings currently, rather than deferring such amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income (stockholders' equity). The net mark-to-market loss on our outstanding derivatives at February 28, 2006 included in accumulated other comprehensive income will be reported in future earnings through 2007 as the original hedged transactions occur. This change in reporting will have no impact on the company's reported cash flows, although future results of operations will be affected by mark-to-market gains and losses which fluctuate with volatile oil and gas prices.
Discontinuation of Hedge Accounting
 From time to time, Tronox enters into forward contracts to buy and sell foreign currencies. Certain of these contracts (purchases of Australian dollars and sales of euro) have been designated and have qualified as cash flow hedges of Tronox's anticipated future cash flows related to pigment sales, raw material purchases and operating costs.
Foreign Currency Derivatives
 From time to time, the company enters into interest rate swaps to hedge against changes in fair value of the related debt as a result of interest rate changes. The swaps are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at their estimated fair value. Any unrealized gain or loss on the swaps is offset by a comparable gain or loss resulting from recording changes in the fair value of the related debt. Gains and losses on interest rate swaps, along with the changes in the fair value of the related debt, are reflected in interest and debt expense in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The critical terms of the swaps match the terms of the debt; therefore, the swaps are considered highly effective and no hedge ineffectiveness has been recognized.
Interest Rate Derivatives
10.
Debt
As discussed in Note 3, in November 2005, the company completed the IPO of Tronox Class A common stock. Notes 3 and 26 provide additional information about the IPO and the subsequent Distribution. Concurrent with the IPO, Tronox, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, borrowed $550 million and entered into a senior secured credit agreement.
Lines of Credit
The following presents a summary of revolving credit facilities that served as a source of liquidity in 2005 and those that are currently in effect. No borrowings were outstanding under the revolving credit agreements at December 31, 2005. Available capacity under the credit agreements presented below reflects capacity utilization in support of outstanding letters of credit.
 
The company has arrangements to maintain compensating balances with certain banks that provide credit. At year-end 2005, the aggregate amount of such compensating balances was not material, and the company was not legally restricted from withdrawing all or a portion of such balances at any time during the year.
 The facility is available to provide support for commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit agreement is payable, at the company's election, at an alternate base rate (ABR) or a Eurodollar rate, in each case as defined in the credit agreement. The initial margin applicable to Eurodollar borrowings is 125 basis points and may vary from 50 to 150 basis points depending on the company's credit rating.
$1.25 Billion Unsecured Revolving Credit Agreement (effective January 2006)
The terms of the revolving credit agreement provide for customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default. The company also is required to maintain compliance with the following financial covenants (in each case, as defined in the agreement):
 
 
 
During 2005, the company was subject to covenants specified in credit agreements in effect at that time and was in compliance with all such covenants. Compliance with the covenants under the $1.25 billion revolving credit agreement entered into in January 2006 will be determined starting with the first quarter of 2006. Management expects the company to be in compliance with such covenants.
 In November 2005, Tronox entered into a senior secured credit facility consisting of a $200 million six-year term loan facility and a five-year multicurrency revolving credit facility of $250 million. Interest on amounts borrowed under the Tronox credit agreement is payable, at Tronox's election, at a base rate or a LIBOR rate, in each case as defined in the Tronox credit agreement. The initial margin applicable to LIBOR borrowings is 175 basis points and may vary from 100 to 200 basis points depending on Tronox's credit rating.
Tronox's $450 million Senior Secured Credit Agreement
 
The terms of the Tronox credit agreement provide for customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default. Tronox is also required to maintain compliance with the following financial covenants beginning in 2006 (in each case, as defined in the agreement):
 
 
 
Tronox Incorporated and certain of its subsidiaries have guaranteed the obligations under the Tronox credit agreement and have granted a security interest in specified assets including property and equipment, inventory and accounts receivable.
Long-Term Debt
As more fully discussed below, in 2005, the company borrowed and repaid an aggregate of $4.25 billion under term loans. In February 2005, the company called for redemption all of the $600 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.25% convertible subordinated debentures due 2010 at a price of 102.625%. Prior to March 4, 2005, the redemption date, all of the debentures were converted by the holders into approximately 9.8 million shares of Kerr-McGee common stock (on a pre-split basis). In February 2006, the company redeemed the 7% debentures due 2011 at face value of $250 million using cash on hand. In connection with the early redemption, a pretax loss of $69 million, representing a write-off of unamortized discount on the debentures, will be recognized in the first quarter of 2006. The following table presents the composition of long-term debt at December 31, 2005 and 2004.
 
 
The following summarizes the scheduled debt maturities as of December 31, 2005:
 
 In May 2005, the company completed a self tender offer for its common stock for an aggregate cost of $4 billion. In connection with the tender offer, the company entered into a $5.5 billion secured credit agreement (Credit Agreement) consisting of a $2 billion two-year term loan (Tranche X), a $2.25 billion six-year term loan (Tranche B) and a $1.25 billion five-year revolving credit facility. The term loans were fully funded at closing, with proceeds used primarily to finance the tender offer and to pay fees and expenses associated with the Credit Agreement. While the Tranche X and Tranche B term loans were outstanding, the weighted average interest rates on the loans were 5.9% and 6.2%, respectively. All borrowings under the Credit Agreement were repaid by the end of 2005 and the Credit Agreement was terminated on January 9, 2006.
$5.5 Billion Secured Credit Agreement
Under the Credit Agreement, the company was subject to mandatory prepayment provisions, including required prepayments with 100% of the net cash proceeds, as defined, from asset disposals. The following provides information on repayments of the Tranche X and Tranche B term loans during 2005. As discussed in Note 2, as a result of this requirement, a portion of interest and debt expense associated with term loan borrowings was reflected in income from discontinued operations.
 
In connection with the Credit Agreement, the company incurred financing costs of $58 million, which were initially capitalized and amortized as interest expense over the terms of the related facilities. Repayment of term loan borrowings earlier than scheduled resulted in writing off $38 million of debt issue costs during 2005. This charge is included in loss on early repayment and modification of debt in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The company will recognize an additional charge of $12 million in the first quarter of 2006 in connection with the termination of the Credit Agreement. This charge represents unamortized financing costs associated with the $1.25 billion revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement.
 Prior to completing Tronox's IPO, the company's chemical business subsidiary, Tronox Worldwide LLC (formerly Kerr-McGee Chemical Worldwide LLC), was one of the guarantor subsidiaries of the company's 5.875% Notes due 2006, 6.875% Notes due 2011, 6.95% Notes due 2024 and 7.875% Notes due 2031 (collectively referred to herein as the Notes). In September 2005, the company received consent from a majority of the noteholders to amend the indenture governing the Notes. The supplemental indenture, which became effective as of September 21, 2005, provided for the release of Tronox Worldwide LLC as a guarantor of the Notes upon an IPO by Tronox Worldwide LLC, or upon a spinoff or splitoff of Tronox Worldwide LLC, or its parent, Tronox Incorporated. Upon completing the IPO, Tronox Worldwide LLC was released from its guaranty of the Notes. As a result of this modification to the indenture governing the Notes, the company paid aggregate consent and release fees to noteholders of $18 million, which were recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the associated Notes and will increase interest expense over the remaining terms of the Notes. In connection with the consent solicitation, the company incurred transaction costs of $4 million, which is included in loss on early repayment and modification of debt in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Income.
Modification to Guarantee Provisions
 
11.
Accounts Receivable Sales
Through April 2005, Tronox had an accounts receivable monetization program with a maximum availability of $165 million. Under the terms of the program, selected qualifying customer accounts receivable arising from sales of titanium dioxide pigment by Tronox were sold monthly to a special-purpose entity (SPE), which in turn sold an undivided ownership interest in the receivables to a third-party multi-seller commercial paper conduit sponsored by an independent financial institution. Tronox sold, and retained an interest in, excess receivables to the SPE as over-collateralization for the program. The retained interest in sold receivables was subordinate to, and provided credit enhancement for, the conduit's ownership interest in the SPE's receivables, and was available to the conduit to pay certain fees or expenses due to the conduit, and to absorb credit losses incurred on any of the SPE's receivables in the event of program termination. No recourse obligations were recorded since the company had no obligations for any recourse actions on the sold receivables. At December 31, 2004, the outstanding balance of receivables sold (and excluded from the company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of that date) was $165 million, which was net of the company's retained interest in receivables serving as over-collateralization of $39 million.
The accounts receivable monetization program included ratings downgrade triggers that provided for certain program modifications, including a program termination event upon which the program would effectively liquidate over time and the third-party multi-seller commercial paper conduit would be repaid with the collections on accounts receivable sold by the SPE. In April 2005, following the announcement of the self tender offer and the related increase in the company's leverage discussed in Note 1, the company's senior unsecured debt was downgraded, triggering program termination. As opposed to liquidating the program over time in accordance with its terms, the company entered into an agreement to terminate the program by repurchasing the then outstanding balance of receivables sold of $165 million. Repurchased accounts receivable were collected by the company later in 2005.
While the program was in effect in 2005 and during 2004 and 2003, the company sold $384 million, $1.1 billion and $836 million, respectively. The resulting losses are reflected as a component of income from discontinued operations. The losses are equal to the difference in the book value of the receivables sold and the total of cash and the fair value of the deposit retained by the SPE.
12.
Financial Instruments
The company holds or issues financial instruments for other than trading purposes. Prior to 2005, the company invested in certain available for sale and trading securities, substantially all of which were disposed of by the end of 2004. Investments in marketable securities are classified as either "trading" or "available for sale" depending on management's intent and are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at their estimated fair values based on quoted market prices. Unrealized gains or losses on trading securities are recognized in earnings, while unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are determined using the average cost method and are reflected as a component of other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Discussion that follows provides information about debt exchangeable for common stock (DECS) which was redeemed using shares of Devon Energy Corporation common stock (Devon stock).
 
DECS and Investment in Devon Stock
The company issued 5.5% notes exchangeable for common stock (DECS) in August 1999, which allowed each holder to receive between .85 and 1.0 share of Devon common stock or, at the company's option, an equivalent amount of cash at maturity in August 2004. Embedded options in the DECS provided the company a floor price on Devon's common stock of $33.19 per share (the put option). The company also had the right to retain up to 15% of the shares if Devon's stock price was greater than $39.16 per share (the DECS holders had an embedded call option on 85% of the shares). Using the Black-Scholes valuation model, the company estimated the fair value of the put and call options and recognized gains or losses resulting from changes in their fair value in other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of Income, along with the changes in the market value of Devon stock classified as trading. The company classified a portion of its Devon stock holdings necessary to repay the DECS as trading (8.4 million shares), with the remaining shares designated as available for sale.
 Through January 2004, the company held shares of Devon stock considered to be available for sale. A portion of this investment was sold in December 2003, resulting in a gain of $17 million. The remaining shares were sold in January 2004 for a gain of $9 million. Proceeds from the December 2003 sales totaled $59 million ($47 million received in 2003 and $12 million received in 2004) and proceeds from the January 2004 sales totaled $27 million.
Available-for-Sale Securities
 Unrealized gains related to the company's investment in Devon stock classified as trading amounted to $103 million in 2004 through the date of disposition and $96 million in 2003. These gains were partially offset by unrealized losses on the embedded options associated with the DECS of $101 million in 2004 through the date of the DECS redemption, and $88 million in 2003.
Trading Securities and DECS Redemption
On August 2, 2004, the company's DECS matured and were settled with the distribution of shares of Devon stock, at which time the fair values of the embedded put and call options in the DECS were nil and $256 million, respectively, and the fair value of the 8.4 million shares of Devon stock was $586 million. The fair value of Devon stock less the call option liability resulted in a net asset carrying value of $330 million, which was offset exactly by the fair value of the DECS resulting in no gain or loss on redemption of the debt. The company recognized, as a component of other income (expense), a charge against earnings of $7 million related to a cumulative translation adjustment recorded prior to 1999 when the company accounted for its investment in Devon using the equity method. The proportionate share of Devon's cumulative translation adjustment was removed from equity and reported in earnings in 2004, when the liquidation of the associated investment occurred.
Financial Instruments for Other than Trading Purposes
At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the carrying amount and estimated fair value of financial instruments held or issued for other than trading purposes are as follows:
 
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value of those instruments due to their short maturity. The fair value of the company's long-term debt is based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt issues or on the current rates offered to the company for debt with the same remaining maturity. Carrying values of derivative instruments, which reflect their estimated fair values, are presented in Note 9.
 
13.
Income Taxes
The 2005, 2004 and 2003 income tax provision (benefit) from continuing operations are summarized below:
 
On October 22, 2004, the President of the United States signed the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") into law. A provision of the Act includes a one time dividends received deduction of 85% of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, as defined in the Act. In 2005, management completed its analysis of the impact of the Act on the company's plans for repatriation. Based upon this analysis, the company repatriated $231 million of qualifying foreign earnings in 2005 and recognized income tax expense of $9 million (net of foreign tax credits of $5 million), including $5 million of income tax expense associated with extraordinary dividends repatriated by Tronox.
In the following table, the U.S. federal income tax rate is reconciled to the company's effective tax rates for income or loss from continuing operations as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
 
Taxation for a company with operations in several foreign countries involves many complex variables, such as tax structures that differ from country to country and the effect on U.S. taxation of international earnings. These complexities do not permit meaningful comparisons between the U.S. and international components of income before income taxes and the provision for income taxes, and disclosures of these components do not necessarily provide reliable indicators of relationships in future periods. Income from continuing operations before income taxes is comprised of the following:
 
 
Net deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are comprised of the following:
 
At December 31, 2005, Tronox had a $7.5 million United States federal net operating loss carryforward. Such loss could not be utilized by Kerr-McGee due to Tronox's status as a non-consolidated corporation for U.S. federal tax reporting following the November 2005 IPO. No valuation allowance has been provided for the net operating loss carryforward, as Tronox management expects to use the full amount of the loss carryforward in the 2006 Tronox federal income tax return.
At December 31, 2005, Tronox and its consolidated subsidiaries had foreign operating loss carryforwards totaling $158 million. Of this amount, $10 million expires in 2009, $21 million in 2011, $1 million in 2012 and $126 million has no expiration date. Realization of these operating loss carryforwards depends on generating sufficient taxable income in future periods. A valuation allowance of $6 million has been recorded to reduce deferred tax assets associated with loss carryforwards that the company does not expect to fully realize prior to expiration.
Undistributed earnings of certain consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled $185 million and $115 million for Kerr-McGee and Tronox, respectively. No provision for deferred U.S. income taxes has been made for these earnings because they are considered to be indefinitely invested outside the United States. The distribution of these earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, may subject the company to U.S. income taxes and, possibly, foreign withholding taxes. However, because of the complexities of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, it is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable on the eventual remittance of these earnings.
 
The Internal Revenue Service has completed its examination of the Kerr-McGee Corporation and subsidiaries' federal income tax returns for all years through 2002 and is conducting an examination of the years 2003 and 2004. The years through 1996 have been closed with the exception of issues for which a refund claim has been filed. The Oryx Energy Company income tax returns have been examined through 1997, and the years through 1978 have been closed, as have the years 1988 through 1998. Oryx and Kerr-McGee merged in 1999. The company believes that it has made adequate provision for income taxes that may be payable with respect to open years.
 Kerr-McGee entered into a tax sharing agreement with Tronox that governs each party's respective rights, responsibilities and obligations subsequent to the IPO with respect to taxes for tax periods ending in 2005 and prior. Generally, taxes incurred or accrued prior to the IPO that are attributable to the business of one party will be borne solely by that party.
Tax Sharing Agreement and Tax Allocations
Kerr-McGee may incur certain restructuring taxes as a result of the Tronox separation. Under the tax sharing agreement, restructuring tax is any tax incurred as a result of any restructuring transaction undertaken to effectuate the Tronox separation, which in the judgment of the parties is currently required to be taken into account in determining the tax liability of Kerr-McGee or Tronox (or their respective subsidiaries) for any pre-IPO period. The tax sharing agreement provides that Kerr-McGee will be responsible for 100% of the restructuring taxes up to, but not to exceed, $17 million. In addition, Tronox is required to indemnify Kerr-McGee for any tax liability incurred by reason of the IPO and subsequent Distribution being considered a taxable transaction to Kerr-McGee as a result of a breach of any of Tronox's representations, warranties, or covenants contained in the tax sharing agreement.
14.
Exit, Disposal and Restructuring Activities
The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of reserves for exit and restructuring activities for the last three years, as well as charges not affecting reserve balances, such as accelerated depreciation of assets, asset impairments and benefit plan curtailment charges. Discussion of significant exit, disposal and restructuring activities is provided below.
 
 
The following summarizes costs associated with exit, disposal and restructuring activities incurred in the last three years and their classification in the company's financial statements. These costs have not been allocated to the company's reportable business segments. Accruals for severance associated with the Westport merger were reflected in the purchase price allocation as an assumed liability.
 
 As discussed in Note 1, in 2005, the company made a number of strategic decisions, including divestitures of its North Sea oil and gas business and selected oil and gas properties in the U.S. and the separation of Tronox. In April 2005, in connection with the planned exit activities, the company initiated employee retention programs with an aggregate cost of $34 million, designed to provide an incentive to certain employees to remain with the company over a stated period ranging from six to 18 months. Later in 2005, in connection with the Tronox separation, the company identified approximately 80 employees for involuntary termination by the end of 2006. The majority of these employees will receive severance payments and other benefits upon completion of a specified service period of up to 14 months, for an aggregate cost of $5 million. Qualifying employees terminated under this program also will be eligible for enhanced benefits under the company's pension and postretirement plans.
Activities Initiated in 2005
 In 2004, Tronox shut down its titanium dioxide pigment sulfate and gypsum production at its Savannah, Georgia, facility as a result of unacceptable financial returns for the facility due to declining demand and prices for sulfate anatase pigments, along with unanticipated environmental and infrastructure issues discovered after the facility was acquired in 2000. The Savannah facility's work force of 410 was reduced by approximately 100 positions. Tronox incurred an aggregate charge of $123 million in 2004 associated with the shutdown.
Activities Initiated in 2004
 In September 2003, the company announced a program to reduce its U.S. nonbargaining work force through both voluntary retirements and involuntary terminations. As a result of the program, the company's eligible U.S. nonbargaining work force was reduced by approximately 9%, or 271 employees. Qualifying employees terminated under this program were eligible for enhanced benefits under the company's pension and postretirement plans, along with severance payments. The program was substantially complete by the end of 2003 and resulted in a charge of $56 million in 2003, of which $34 million was for curtailment and special termination benefits associated with the company's retirement plans.
Activities Initiated in 2003
In June 2003, Tronox closed its synthetic rutile plant in Mobile, Alabama. The plant processed and supplied a portion of the feedstock for Tronox's titanium dioxide pigment plants in the United States. The plant was closed when the company identified opportunities to purchase the feedstock more economically than it could be manufactured at the Mobile plant. Tronox provided $61 million and $7 million in 2003 and 2004, respectively, for costs associated with the plant closure. The Mobile plant closure will ultimately result in 127 employees being terminated, of which 112 were terminated by year-end 2005.
 
15.
Employee Benefit Plans
 Kerr-McGee is a sponsor of noncontributory defined-benefit retirement plans and contributory postretirement plans for health care and life insurance, in each case for the benefit of the company's current and former employees in the U.S. Most U.S. employees are covered under the company's retirement plans, and substantially all U.S. employees may become eligible for the postretirement benefits if they reach retirement age while working for the company. Additionally, certain foreign subsidiaries of Tronox sponsor contributory retirement plans in Germany and the Netherlands. As discussed in Note 3, under the provisions of the Employee Benefits Agreement between Kerr-McGee and Tronox, qualifying current and former U.S. employees of Tronox also participate in Kerr-McGee's benefit plans through the date of the Distribution. Effects of the Distribution on defined-benefit plans sponsored by Kerr-McGee are discussed in more detail below. The measurement date used for all plans is December 31.
Overview
 It is expected that upon completion of the Distribution, the company will transfer to Tronox approximately 40% of its U.S. pension benefit obligation and approximately 50% of its U.S. postretirement benefit obligation as of that date. Kerr-McGee also will transfer approximately 40% of its trust assets to the newly established U.S. pension plan to fund the transferred pension benefit obligation in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Actual values of the benefit obligations and associated plan assets transferred to Tronox will be determined at the time of the Distribution and will depend on the level of retirement plan assets, interest rates and other factors relevant to the measurement of the obligations and determination of asset values to be transferred. Note 26 provides additional information regarding the Tronox Distribution.
Effect of Tronox Separation
 The following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of the company's pension and other postretirement plans as of and for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, prior to the transfer of obligations and assets to Tronox. The following table excludes information associated with the U.K. retirement plan sponsored by the company's North Sea oil and gas business that was sold in 2005, as discussed in Note 2. At December 31, 2004, the projected benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets for the U.K. retirement plan were $88 million and $79 million, respectively. Long-term assets of discontinued operations in the company's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004 include prepaid pension cost of $23 million associated with this plan.
Benefit Obligations and Funded Status
 
 
The following table summarizes the accumulated benefit obligations and the projected benefit obligations associated with the company's unfunded benefit plans.
 
Summarized below are the accumulated benefit obligation, the projected benefit obligation, the market value of plan assets and the funded status of the company's funded retirement plans.
 
 Following are the expected benefit payments for the next five years and in the aggregate for the years 2011 through 2015:
Expected Benefit Payments
 
For the retirement plans that qualify under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), the benefit amount that can be provided to employees by the plans is limited by both ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. Therefore, the company has unfunded supplemental nonqualified plans designed to maintain benefits for all employees at the plan formula level and to provide senior executives with benefits equal to a specified percentage of their final average compensation.
 Income from continuing operations for 2005, 2004 and 2003 includes the following components of net periodic cost (benefit) associated with the company's U.S. benefit plans:
Net Periodic Cost
 
 
Net periodic pension cost for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes special termination benefits resulting from an involuntary termination program initiated by the company in October 2005. The 2003 net periodic cost includes curtailment losses associated with the 2003 work force reduction program.
 The following weighted average assumptions were used to determine the net periodic cost:
Assumptions
 
The following assumptions were used in estimating the actuarial present value of the plans' benefit obligations:
 
In forming the assumption of the U.S. long-term rate of return, the company takes into account the expected earnings on funds already invested, earnings on contributions expected to be received in the current year, and earnings on reinvested returns. The long-term rate of return estimation methodology for U.S. plans is based on a capital asset pricing model using historical data. An expected return analysis is performed which incorporates the current portfolio allocation, historical asset-class returns and an assessment of expected future performance using asset-class risk factors. Our assumption of the long-term rate of return for the Netherlands plan is developed considering the portfolio mix and country-specific economic data that includes the rates of return on local government and corporate bonds.
The company selects a discount rate for its U.S. qualified plan and its postretirement plan using the results of a cash flow matching analysis based on projected cash flows for the plans. For foreign plans, the company bases the discount rate assumption on local corporate bond index rates.
The health care cost trend rates used to determine the year-end 2005 postretirement benefit obligation were 10% in 2006, gradually declining to 5% in 2012 and thereafter. A 1% increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each future year would increase the postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2005 by $14 million, while the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the 2005 net periodic postretirement cost would increase by $1 million. A 1% decrease in the trend rate for each future year would reduce the benefit obligation at year-end 2005 by $12 million and decrease the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the net periodic postretirement cost for 2005 by $1 million.
 
 Asset categories for the company's funded retirement plans and the associated asset allocations by category at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows:
Plan Assets
 
The U.S. plan is administered by a board-appointed committee that has fiduciary responsibility for the plan's management. The committee maintains an investment policy stating the guidelines for the performance and allocation of plan assets, performance review procedures and updating of the policy. At least annually, the U.S. plan's asset allocation guidelines are reviewed in light of evolving risk and return expectations. Current guidelines permit the committee to manage the allocation of funds between equity and debt securities within the range of 40-60% equity securities and 40-60% debt securities.
Substantially all of the plan's assets are invested with eight equity fund managers and six fixed-income fund managers. At year-end 2005 and 2004, equity securities held by the plan included $5 million and $3 million of Kerr-McGee stock, respectively, or 101,474 shares. Dividends paid on these shares were less than $100,000 in 2005 and 2004. To control risk, equity fund managers are prohibited from entering into the following transactions, (i) investing in commodities, including all futures contracts, (ii) purchasing letter stock, (iii) short selling and (iv) option trading. In addition, equity fund managers are prohibited from purchasing on margin and are prohibited from purchasing Kerr-McGee securities. Equity managers are monitored to ensure investments are in line with their style and are generally permitted to invest in U.S. common stock, U.S. preferred stock, U.S. securities convertible into common stock, common stock of foreign companies listed on major U.S. exchanges, common stock of foreign companies listed on foreign exchanges, covered call writing, and cash and cash equivalents.
Fixed-income fund managers are prohibited from investing in (i) direct real estate mortgages or commingled real estate funds, (ii) private placements above certain portfolio thresholds, (iii) tax exempt debt of state and local governments above certain portfolio thresholds, (iv) fixed income derivatives that would cause leverage, (v) guaranteed investment contracts, and (vi) Kerr-McGee securities. They are permitted to invest in debt securities issued by the U.S. government, its agencies or instrumentalities, commercial paper rated A3/P3, FDIC insured certificates of deposit or bankers acceptances, and corporate debt obligations. Each fund manager's portfolio should have an average credit rating of A or better.
The Netherlands plan is administered by a pension committee representing the employer, the employees and the pensioners, each with one equal vote. The pension committee members are approved by the state's lead pension agency based upon experience and character. The pension committee meets at least quarterly to discuss regulatory changes, asset performance and asset allocation. The plan assets are managed by one Dutch fund manager against a mandate set at least annually by the pension committee. The plan assets are evaluated annually by a multinational benefits consultant against state defined actuarial tests to determine funding requirements.
16.
Contingencies
 As discussed in Note 3, in 2005, Kerr-McGee transferred to Tronox the subsidiaries holding and operating Kerr-McGee's chemical business and completed the IPO of Tronox Class A common stock. As discussed in Note 26, the company distributed its remaining 56.7% ownership interest in Tronox to Kerr-McGee's stockholders in March 2006.
Effect of Tronox Separation
Tronox and its subsidiaries are subject to obligations for environmental remediation and restoration associated with the chemical business currently in operation, as well as with former operations, including the production of ammonium perchlorate, the manufacturing of thorium compounds, treatment of forest products, the refining and marketing of petroleum products, and the mining, milling and processing of
 
nuclear materials. Under the terms of the Master Separation Agreement (MSA), Kerr-McGee agreed to reimburse Tronox for 50% of the environmental remediation costs incurred and paid by Tronox and its subsidiaries, to the extent such costs, net of any reimbursements received from insurers or other parties, exceed the carrying value of Tronox's environmental reserves as of November 28, 2005. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Kerr-McGee is not obligated to reimburse Tronox if such excess expenditures at any individual site are $200,000 or less, or for any remediation costs incurred and paid by Tronox after November 28, 2012. This seven-year reimbursement obligation extends to costs incurred and paid at any site associated with any of the former businesses and operations of Tronox and is limited to a maximum aggregate reimbursement of $100 million for all covered sites. Additionally, Kerr-McGee is not obligated to reimburse Tronox for amounts paid to third parties in connection with tort claims or personal injury lawsuits, or for costs incurred and paid by Tronox in excess of the lowest cost response, as defined in the MSA.
Because Tronox is a consolidated subsidiary of Kerr-McGee as of December 31, 2005, the Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects Tronox's liabilities for environmental remediation and restoration costs that are probable and estimable. The accompanying financial statements do not include any effects of the reimbursement obligation discussed above between the parties within the consolidated group. Upon completion of the Distribution, Tronox ceased to be a consolidated subsidiary of Kerr-McGee, at which time Kerr-McGee recognized a liability of $56 million associated with its reimbursement obligation, measured at its estimated fair value.
The following table presents December 31, 2005 balances of reserves for environmental and legal contingencies and the related reimbursements receivable from the U.S. government and insurers.
 
 The following table summarizes the reserve balances, provisions, payments and settlements for 2003, 2004 and 2005 associated with environmental and legal contingencies, as well as balances, accruals and receipts of reimbursements of environmental costs from other parties.
Overview
 
 
Management believes, after consultation with its internal legal counsel, that currently the company has reserved adequately for the reasonably estimable costs of environmental matters and other contingencies. However, additions to the reserves may be required as additional information is obtained that enables the company to better estimate its liabilities, including liabilities at sites now under review, though the company cannot now reliably estimate the amount of future additions to the reserves. Reserves for each environmental site are based on assumptions regarding the volumes of contaminated soils and groundwater involved, as well as associated excavation, transportation and disposal costs.
The company provides for costs related to contingencies when a loss is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable. It is not possible for the company to reliably estimate the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental and legal matters and other contingencies because, among other reasons:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current and former operations of the company and its affiliates require the management of regulated materials and are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations will obligate the company to clean up various sites at which petroleum and other hydrocarbons, chemicals, low-level radioactive substances and/or other materials have been contained, disposed of or released. Some of these sites have been designated Superfund sites by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) or state equivalents. Similar environmental laws and regulations and other requirements exist in foreign countries in which the company operates. Following are discussions regarding certain environmental sites and litigation of Tronox and its subsidiaries, as well as discussions of other Kerr-McGee sites and matters.
 
Contingencies of Tronox
Environmental
Henderson, Nevada
In 1998, Tronox LLC (formerly Kerr-McGee Chemical LLC) decided to exit the ammonium perchlorate business. At that time, Tronox LLC curtailed operations and began preparation for the shutdown of the associated production facilities in Henderson, Nevada, that produced ammonium perchlorate and other related products. Manufacture of perchlorate compounds began at Henderson in 1945 in facilities owned by the U.S. government. The U.S. Navy expanded production significantly in 1953 when it completed construction of a plant for the manufacture of ammonium perchlorate. The Navy continued to own the ammonium perchlorate plant as well as other associated production equipment at Henderson until 1962, when the plant was purchased by a predecessor of the company. The ammonium perchlorate produced at the Henderson facility was used primarily in federal government defense and space programs. Perchlorate that may have originated, at least in part, from the Henderson facility has been detected in nearby Lake Mead and the Colorado River, which contribute to municipal water supplies in Arizona, Southern California and Southern Nevada.
Tronox LLC began decommissioning the facility and remediating associated perchlorate contamination, including surface impoundments and groundwater, when it decided to exit the business in 1998. In 1999 and 2001, Tronox LLC entered into consent orders with the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection (NDEP) that require it to implement both interim and long-term remedial measures to capture and remove perchlorate from groundwater. In April 2005, Tronox LLC entered into an amended consent order with NDEP that requires, in addition to the capture and treatment of groundwater, the closure of a certain impoundment related to the past production of ammonium perchlorate, including treatment and disposal of solution and sediment contained in the impoundment. An agreement with NDEP requires Tronox LLC to test for various potential contaminants at the site, which is ongoing.
In 1999, Tronox LLC initiated the interim measures required by the consent orders. A long-term remediation system is operating in compliance with the consent orders. Initially, the remediation system was projected to operate through 2007. However, studies of the decline of perchlorate levels in the groundwater now indicate that Tronox LLC may need to operate the system through 2011. The scope, duration and cost of groundwater remediation likely will be driven in the long term by drinking water standards regarding perchlorate, which to date have not been formally established by applicable state or federal regulatory authorities. EPA and other federal and state agencies continue to evaluate the health and environmental risks associated with perchlorate as part of the process for ultimately setting drinking water standards. One state agency, the California Environmental Protection Agency (CalEPA), has set a public health goal for perchlorate, and the federal EPA has established a reference dose for perchlorate, which are preliminary steps to setting drinking water standards. The establishment of drinking water standards could materially affect the scope, duration and cost of the long-term groundwater remediation that Tronox LLC is required to perform.
 As of December 31, 2005, reserves for environmental remediation at Henderson totaled $37 million. This includes $32 million added to the reserve in 2005 because of increased costs for removing and treating ammonium perchlorate solids contained in a lined pond, purchasing additional equipment to perform cleanup and extending the projected operating period of the groundwater remediating system through 2011. As noted above, the long-term scope, duration and cost of groundwater remediation and impoundment closure are uncertain and, therefore, additional costs beyond those accrued may be incurred in the future. However, the amount of any additional costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Financial Reserves
 In 2000, Tronox LLC initiated litigation against the United States seeking contribution for its Henderson response costs. The suit was based on the fact that the government owned the plant in the early years of its operation, exercised significant control over production at the plant and the sale of products produced at the plant, even while not the owner, and was the largest consumer of products produced at the plant. Before trial, the parties agreed to a settlement of the claims against the United States. The settlement was memorialized in a consent decree approved by the court on January 13, 2006. Under the consent decree, the United States will pay Tronox LLC approximately $21 million in contribution for past costs and, commencing January 1, 2011, the United States will be obligated to pay 21% of Tronox LLC's remaining response costs at Henderson, if any, related to perchlorate. In the first quarter of 2006, Tronox LLC recognized a receivable for environmental cost reimbursement of $21 million pursuant to the consent decree provisions. The receivable was collected in February 2006.
Litigation
 
 In 2001, Tronox LLC purchased a 10-year, $100 million environmental cost cap insurance policy for groundwater and other remediation at Henderson. The insurance policy, which began to provide coverage only after Tronox LLC exhausted a self-insured retention of approximately $61 million, covers only those costs incurred to achieve a cleanup level specified in the policy. As noted above, federal and state agencies have not established a drinking water standard and, therefore, it is possible that Tronox LLC may be required to achieve a cleanup level more stringent than that covered by the policy. If so, the amount recoverable under the policy may be less than the ultimate cleanup cost.
Insurance
At December 31, 2005, Tronox LLC had received $6 million of cost reimbursement under the insurance policy, and expects additional estimated aggregate cleanup costs of $92 million less the $61 million self-insured retention to be covered by the policy (for a net amount of $31 million in additional reimbursement, including $22 million accrued in 2005). The company believes that additional reimbursement of $31 million is probable, and, accordingly, the company has recorded a receivable in the financial statements for that amount.
West Chicago, Illinois
In 1973, Tronox LLC closed a facility in West Chicago, Illinois, that processed thorium ores for the federal government and for certain commercial purposes. Historical operations had resulted in low-level radioactive contamination at the facility and in surrounding areas. The original processing facility is regulated by the State of Illinois (the State), and four vicinity areas are designated as Superfund sites on the National Priorities List (NPL).
 Pursuant to agreements reached in 1994 and 1997 among Tronox LLC, the City of West Chicago (the City) and the State regarding the decommissioning of the closed West Chicago facility, Tronox LLC has substantially completed the excavation of contaminated soils and has shipped those soils to a licensed disposal facility. Surface restoration was completed in 2004, except for areas designated for use in connection with the Kress Creek and Sewage Treatment Plant remediation discussed below. Groundwater monitoring and remediation is expected to continue for approximately ten years.
Closed Facility
 EPA has listed four areas in the vicinity of the closed West Chicago facility on the NPL and has designated Tronox LLC as a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) in these four areas. Tronox LLC has substantially completed remedial work for two of the areas (known as the Residential Areas and Reed-Keppler Park). The other two NPL sites, known as Kress Creek and the Sewage Treatment Plant, are contiguous and involve low levels of insoluble thorium residues, principally in streambanks and streambed sediments, virtually all within a floodway. Tronox LLC has reached an agreement with the appropriate federal and state agencies and local communities regarding the characterization and cleanup of the sites, past and future government response costs, and the waiver of natural resource damages claims. The agreement is incorporated in consent decrees, which were approved and entered by the federal court in August 2005. The cleanup work, which began in the third quarter of 2005, is expected to take about four to five years to complete and will require excavation of contaminated soils and stream sediments, shipment of excavated materials to a licensed disposal facility and restoration of affected areas.
Vicinity Areas
 As of December 31, 2005, the company had reserves of $87 million for costs related to the West Chicago facility and vicinity properties. This includes approximately $12 million added to the reserve in 2005 as a result of additional volumes of contaminated materials being identified at the Kress Creek site and the agreement described above requiring the company to reimburse local communities for certain cleanup costs. Although actual costs may differ from current estimates, the amount of any revisions in remediation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The amount of the reserve is not reduced by reimbursements expected from the federal government under Title X of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Title X) (discussed below).
Financial Reserves
 Pursuant to Title X, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is obligated to reimburse Tronox LLC for certain decommissioning and cleanup costs incurred in connection with the West Chicago sites in recognition of the fact that about 55% of the facility's production was dedicated to U.S. government contracts. The amount authorized for reimbursement under Title X is $365 million plus
Government Reimbursement
 
inflation adjustments. That amount is expected to cover the government's full share of West Chicago cleanup costs. Through December 31, 2005, Tronox LLC had been reimbursed approximately $281 million under Title X.
Reimbursements under Title X are provided by congressional appropriations. Historically, congressional appropriations have lagged the company's cleanup expenditures. As of December 31, 2005, the government's share of costs incurred by Tronox LLC but not yet reimbursed by the DOE totaled approximately $26 million, which includes $13 million accrued in 2005. The company believes receipt of the $26 million government share in due course following additional congressional appropriations is probable and has reflected that amount as a receivable in the financial statements. The company will recognize recovery of the government's share of future remediation costs for the West Chicago sites as it incurs the cash expenditures.
Ambrosia Lake, New Mexico
From the late 1950s until 1988, an affiliate of Tronox Worldwide LLC (formerly Kerr-McGee Chemical Worldwide LLC) operated a uranium mining and milling operation at Ambrosia Lake near Grants, New Mexico, pursuant to a license issued by the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) (now the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)). When the operation was sold, Tronox Worldwide LLC retained responsibility for certain environmental conditions existing at the site, including mill tailings, selected ponds and groundwater contamination related to the mill tailings and unlined ponds. Since 1989, the unaffiliated current owner of the site, Rio Algom Mining LLC (Rio Algom), has been decommissioning the site pursuant to the license issued by NRC. Mill tailings, certain impacted surface soils, and selected pond sediments have been consolidated in an onsite containment unit, and groundwater treatment has been ongoing. Under terms of the sales agreement, which included provisions capping the liability of Rio Algom, Tronox Worldwide LLC became obligated to solely fund the remediation for the items described above when total expenditures exceeded $30 million, which occurred in late 2000. A request to cease groundwater treatment has been under review by the NRC since 2001. In addition, a decommissioning plan for remaining impacted soil was submitted by Rio Algom to the NRC in January 2005, and is currently under review. If approved, the soil decommissioning plan would take two to three years to complete. The State of New Mexico has recently raised issues about certain nonradiological constituents in the groundwater at the site. The request to cease groundwater treatment, which is being reviewed by the NRC, was amended to address these nonradiological constituents. Discussions regarding these issues are ongoing, and resolution of them could affect remediation costs and/or delay ultimate site closure.
In addition to those remediation activities described above for which reserves have been established as described below, Rio Algom is investigating soil contamination potentially caused by past discharge of mine water from the site, for which no reserve has been established.
 As of December 31, 2005, the company had reserves of $11 million for the costs of the remediation activities described above, including groundwater remediation. This includes $8 million added to the reserve in 2005, as a result of the discussions between Rio Algom and the NRC, and primarily to cover additional costs associated with pond closure, rock placement, and surface water channels. Although actual costs may differ from current estimates, the amount of any revisions in remediation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Financial Reserves
 On January 18, 2006, Rio Algom filed suit against Tronox Worldwide LLC in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico. The suit seeks a determination regarding responsibility for certain labor-related and environmental remediation costs. The parties have discussed submitting the dispute to binding arbitration and negotiations regarding arbitration are ongoing. The company has not provided a reserve for this lawsuit because at this time it cannot reasonably determine the probability of a loss, and the amount of loss, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated. The ultimate resolution of the litigation is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company.
Litigation
Milwaukee, Wisconsin
In 1976, Tronox LLC closed a wood-treatment facility it had operated in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Operations at the facility prior to its closure had resulted in the contamination of soil and groundwater at and around the site with creosote and other substances used in wood treating. In 1984, EPA designated the Milwaukee wood-treatment facility as a Superfund site under CERCLA, listed the site on the NPL and
 
named Tronox LLC as a PRP. Tronox LLC executed a consent decree in 1991 that required it to perform soil and groundwater remediation at and below the former wood-treatment area and to address a tributary creek of the Menominee River that had become contaminated as a result of the wood-treatment operations. Actual remedial activities were deferred until after the decree was finally entered in 1996 by a federal court in Milwaukee.
Groundwater treatment was initiated in 1996 to remediate groundwater contamination below and in the vicinity of the former wood-treatment area. It is not possible to reliably predict how groundwater conditions will be affected by soil removal in the vicinity of the former wood-treatment area, which has been completed, and by ongoing groundwater treatment. It is unknown, therefore, how long groundwater treatment will continue. Soil cleanup of the former wood-treatment area began in 2000 and was completed in 2002. Also in 2002, remedial designs for the upper portion of the tributary creek were agreed to with EPA, after which Tronox LLC began the implementation of a remedy to reroute the creek and to remediate associated sediment and stream bank soils. Remediation of the upper portion of the creek is expected to take about three more years. Tronox LLC has not yet agreed with relevant regulatory authorities regarding remedial designs for the lower portion of the tributary creek.
 As of December 31, 2005, the company had reserves of $4 million for the costs of the remediation work described above. Although actual costs may differ from current estimates, the amount of any revisions in remediation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The costs associated with remediation, if any, of the lower portion of the tributary creek are not reasonably estimable.
Financial Reserves
New Jersey Wood-Treatment Site
Tronox LLC was named in 1999 as a PRP under CERCLA at a former wood-treatment site in New Jersey at which EPA is conducting a cleanup. On April 15, 2005, Tronox LLC and Tronox Worldwide LLC received a letter from EPA asserting that they are liable under CERCLA as a former owner or operator of the site and demanding reimbursement of costs expended by EPA at the site. The letter made demand for payment of past costs in the amount of approximately $179 million, plus interest, though EPA has informed Tronox LLC that it expects final project costs will be approximately $236 million, plus possible other costs and interest. Tronox LLC did not operate the site, which had been sold to a third party before Tronox LLC succeeded to the interests of a predecessor owner in the 1960's. The predecessor also did not operate the site, which had been closed down before it was acquired by the predecessor. Based on historical records, there are substantial uncertainties about whether or under what terms the predecessor assumed liabilities for the site. In addition, although it appears there may be other PRPs, the company does not know whether the other PRPs have received similar letters from EPA, whether there are any defenses to liability available to the other PRPs or whether the other PRPs have the financial resources necessary to meet their obligations. By letter dated December 15, 2005, EPA advised that it currently does not intend to seek reimbursement of response costs from Tronox Worldwide LLC, though it still seeks reimbursement of response costs from Tronox LLC. The company intends to vigorously defend against EPA's demand, though the company expects to have discussions with EPA that could lead to a settlement or resolution of the EPA demand. No reserve for reimbursement of cleanup costs at the site has been recorded because it is not possible to reliably estimate the liability, if any, the company may have for the site because of the aforementioned defenses and uncertainties.
Cushing, Oklahoma
In 1972, Triple S Refining Corporation (Triple S), an affiliate of Tronox, closed a petroleum refinery it had operated near Cushing, Oklahoma. Prior to closing the refinery, Triple S also had produced uranium and thorium fuel and metal at the site pursuant to licenses issued by the AEC.
In 1990, Triple S entered into a consent agreement with the State of Oklahoma to investigate the site and take appropriate remedial actions related to petroleum refining and uranium and thorium residuals. Investigation and remediation of hydrocarbon contamination is being performed under the oversight of the Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality. Remediation to address hydrocarbon contamination in soils is expected to take about four more years. The long-term scope, duration and cost of groundwater remediation are uncertain and, therefore, additional costs beyond those accrued may be incurred in the future.
 
In 1993, Triple S received a decommissioning license from the NRC, the successor to AEC's licensing authority, to perform certain cleanup of uranium and thorium residuals. All known radiological contamination has been removed from the site and shipped to a licensed disposal facility, substantially completing the license requirements.
 As of December 31, 2005, the company had reserves of $12 million for the costs of the ongoing remediation and decommissioning work described above. Although actual costs may differ from current estimates, the amount of any revisions in remediation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Financial Reserves
Litigation and Claims
Forest Products Litigation
Between December 31, 2002 and May 2, 2005, approximately 250 lawsuits (filed on behalf of approximately 5,100 claimants) were filed against Tronox LLC in connection with the former wood-treatment plant in Columbus, Mississippi. Substantially all of these lawsuits are pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi and have been consolidated for pretrial and discovery purposes. In addition, a suit filed by the Maranatha Faith Center against Tronox LLC and Tronox Worldwide LLC on February 18, 2000, relates to the former wood-treatment plant in Columbus and is pending in the Circuit Court of Lowndes County, Mississippi. Between December 31, 2002 and June 25, 2004, three lawsuits (filed on behalf of approximately 3,300 claimants) were filed against Tronox LLC in connection with a former wood-treatment plant located in Hattiesburg, Mississippi. These lawsuits were removed to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi. Between September 9, 2004 and December 28, 2005, four lawsuits (filed on behalf of 69 claimants) were filed against Tronox LLC in connection with a former wood-treatment plant located in Texarkana, Texas. Two of the Texarkana lawsuits that were filed in Oklahoma (on behalf of 30 claimants) have been dismissed on jurisdictional grounds. Between January 3, 2005 and July 26, 2005, 35 lawsuits (filed on behalf of approximately 4,600 claimants) were filed against Tronox LLC and Tronox Worldwide LLC in connection with the former wood-treatment plant in Avoca, Pennsylvania. All of these lawsuits seek recovery under a variety of common law and statutory legal theories for personal injuries and/or property damages allegedly caused by exposure to and/or release of creosote, a chemical used in the wood-treatment process.
In 2003, Tronox LLC entered into a settlement agreement that resolved approximately 1,490 of the Hattiesburg claims, which resulted in aggregate payments by Tronox LLC of approximately $600,000. In December 2005, Tronox LLC entered into settlement agreements to resolve up to 1,335 of the remaining Hattiesburg claims and up to 879 of the Columbus claims. The December 2005 settlement agreements require Tronox LLC to pay up to $2.5 million, of which $2 million was paid in December 2005. In addition, all of the remaining Hattiesburg claims have been dismissed without prejudice on the bases of failure to pay filing fees and failure to disclose information in compliance with court orders. The company currently believes that the unresolved claims relating to the Columbus, Hattiesburg, Texarkana and Avoca plants are without substantial merit and is vigorously defending against them.
 As of December 31, 2005, the company had reserves of $7 million related to forest products litigation. Although actual costs may differ from the current estimates, the amount of any revisions in litigation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The company currently believes that the ultimate resolution of the forest products litigation is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the company.
Financial Reserves
Kemira
In 2000, Tronox LLC acquired its titanium dioxide production facility in Savannah, Georgia, from Kemira Pigments Oy, a Finnish company, and its parent, Kemira Oyj (together, "the Sellers"). After acquiring the facility, the company discovered that certain matters associated with environmental conditions and plant infrastructure were not consistent with representations made by the Sellers. The company sought recovery for breach of representations and warranties in a proceeding before the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA). On May 9, 2005, the Company received notice from the LCIA that the LCIA had found in favor of the company as to liability with respect to certain of the claims. The LCIA still must determine the amount of damages, a hearing with respect to which has been scheduled for late May 2006. The company currently cannot reasonably estimate the amount of damages that will be awarded. The company will recognize a receivable, if and when damages are awarded and all contingencies associated with any recovery are resolved.
 
Other Sites and Matters
In addition to the environmental sites described above, Tronox and/or its affiliates are responsible for environmental costs related to certain other sites. These sites relate primarily to wood-treating, chemical production, landfills, mining, and oil and gas refining, distribution and marketing. As of December 31, 2005, the company and its affiliates had reserves of $73 million for the environmental costs in connection with these other sites. This amount includes $20 million added to reserves in 2005 for additional costs estimated at various of these other sites. Although actual costs may differ from current estimates, the amount of any revisions in remediation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
The company and its affiliates are parties to a number of legal and administrative proceedings involving disputes with federal, state and private parties, environmental matters and/or other matters pending in various courts or agencies. Some of these proceedings are associated with facilities currently or previously owned, operated or used by the company and/or its predecessors, some of which include claims for personal injuries, property damages, cleanup costs and other environmental matters. These proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company.
Other Contingencies of Kerr-McGee
Los Angeles County, California
During 2004, the company began remediation and restoration of an oil and gas field that was operated by an affiliate of the company and its predecessors from about 1936 to 1990 in Los Angeles County, California. The company is obligated to remediate soils contaminated with petroleum hydrocarbons associated with certain early drilling and production pits and sumps and other historic leaks and spills. The remediation and restoration of this oil and gas field is expected to take about five years.
 As of December 31, 2005, environmental reserves for this project totaled $23 million. This includes approximately $5 million added to the reserve in 2005 as a result of identifying additional contaminated locations in the field. Although actual costs may differ from current estimates, the amount of any revisions in remediation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Financial Reserves
Other Sites and Matters
Deepwater Royalty Relief Act
In 1995, the United States Congress passed the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act (DWRRA) to stimulate exploration and production of oil and natural gas in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico by providing relief from the obligation to pay royalty on certain federal leases. In January 2006, the Department of the Interior (DOI) ordered Kerr-McGee Oil and Gas Corporation (KMOG) to pay oil and gas royalties and accrued interest on certain of KMOG's deepwater Gulf of Mexico production for which KMOG believes royalties are suspended under the DWRRA. DOI issued the Order to Pay based on the assertion that DOI has the discretion to suspend royalty relief under the DWRRA with respect to the subject leases when oil and gas prices reach certain levels specified by DOI. KMOG believes that DOI does not have the authority to suspend royalty relief on the subject leases and, accordingly, intends to contest the Order to Pay and vigorously defend against DOI's claim for additional royalties. The company has recorded reserves for the full amount of the DOI claim, including interest. As of December 31, 2005, reserves for royalties and interest potentially payable to the DOI totaled $108 million.
Other
In addition to the site in Los Angeles County described above, Kerr-McGee and/or its affiliates are responsible for environmental costs related to certain other sites where exploration and production activities where conducted. As of December 31, 2005, the company and its affiliates had reserves of $21 million for the environmental costs in connection with these other sites. This amount includes $7 million added to reserves in 2005 for additional costs estimated at various of these sites. Although actual costs may differ from current estimates, the amount of any revisions in remediation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
 
Kerr-McGee and its affiliates are parties to a number of legal and administrative proceedings involving the False Claims Act and other royalty-related claims and disputes with federal, state and private parties, environmental matters and/or other matters pending in various courts or agencies. Some of these proceedings are associated with facilities currently or previously owned, operated or used by the company and/or its predecessors, some of which include claims for personal injuries, property damages, cleanup costs and other environmental matters. These proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company.
17.
Commitments
 The company has various commitments under noncancelable operating lease agreements, principally for office space, production and gathering facilities and other equipment. The company also has entered into operating lease agreements for the use of the Nansen, Boomvang and Gunnison spar platforms located in the Gulf of Mexico. Aggregate minimum annual rentals under all operating leases (including the platform leases in effect at December 31, 2005) total $807 million (including $48 million of Tronox's obligations), of which $85 million is due in 2006, $66 million in 2007, $65 million in 2008, $54 million in 2009, $42 million in 2010 and $495 million thereafter. Total lease rental expense was $98 million in 2005, $84 million in 2004 and $65 million in 2003.
Lease Obligations and Guarantees
The company has guaranteed that the Nansen, Boomvang and Gunnison platforms will have residual values at the end of the operating leases equal to at least 10% of the fair value of the platform at the inception of the lease. For Nansen and Boomvang, the guaranteed values are $14 million and $8 million, respectively, in 2022, and for Gunnison the guarantee is $15 million in 2024.
Under the terms of the Master Separation Agreement, Kerr-McGee agreed to reimburse Tronox for a portion of the environmental costs incurred and paid by Tronox and its subsidiaries prior to November 28, 2012. Additional information about this reimbursement obligation is provided in Note 16.
During 2003 and 2002, the company entered into sale-leaseback arrangements with General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC) covering assets associated with a gas-gathering system in the Wattenberg field. The 2002 operating lease agreements have an initial term of five years, with two 12-month renewal options, and the company may elect to purchase the equipment at specified amounts after the end of the fourth year. The 2003 operating lease agreement has an initial term of four years, with two 12-month renewal options. In the event the company does not purchase the equipment and it is returned to GECC, the company may be required to make payments in connection with residual value guarantees ranging from $35 million at the end of the initial terms to $27 million at the end of the last renewal option. The company recorded no gain or loss associated with the GECC sale-leaseback agreements. The future minimum annual rentals due under noncancelable operating leases shown above include payments related to these agreements.
In connection with certain contracts and agreements, the company has entered into indemnifications related to title claims, environmental matters, litigation and other claims. The company has recorded no material obligations in connection with its indemnification agreements.
 In the normal course of business, the company enters into contractual agreements to purchase raw materials, pipeline capacity, utilities and other services. Aggregate future payments under these contracts total $1.484 billion (including $1.002 billion associated with Tronox's obligations), of which $481 million is expected to be paid in 2006, $337 million in 2007, $255 million in 2008, $161 million in 2009, $109 million in 2010, and $141 million thereafter.
Purchase Obligations
 
 During the normal course of business, the company enters into arrangements to participate in the use of various drilling rigs. The commitment with respect to these arrangements totals up to $749 million, depending on partner utilization, of which $226 million is expected to be paid in 2006, $392 million in 2007, $36 million in 2008, $26 million in 2009, $26 million in 2010, and $43 million thereafter. Subsequent to December 31, 2005, the company entered into additional agreements totaling $19 million, of which $6 million is due in 2006, $8 million is due in 2007 and $5 million is due in 2008.
Drilling Rig Commitments
 At December 31, 2005, outstanding letters of credit totaled $114 million (including $34 million issued by Tronox). Most of these letters of credit have been granted by financial institutions to support international drilling commitments, environmental remediation activities and insurance agreements. As of February 28, 2006, outstanding letters of credit totaled $144 million, which included $40 million associated with Tronox.
Letters of Credit and Other
18.
Capital Stock
In May 2005, the stockholders approved an increase in the authorized number of shares of common stock from 300 million to 500 million shares. Following this approval, authorized capital stock of the company consists of 500 million shares of common stock with a par value of $1.00 per share and 40 million shares of preferred stock without par value. No shares of preferred stock have been issued.
As discussed in Note 1, in March 2005, the company's Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program initially set at $1 billion, with an expectation to expand the program as the chemical business separation proceeded. Before terminating this program in connection with the Board's approval of the tender offer discussed below, the company repurchased 3.1 million shares (on a pre-split basis) of its common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $250 million. Shares repurchased under this program are held in treasury.
On April 18, 2005, the company commenced a tender offer to repurchase 43.5 million shares of its common stock at a price not lower than $85 or higher than $92 per share. The company exercised its right to increase the number of shares purchased pursuant to the tender offer by 3.2 million shares, which resulted in repurchasing 46.7 million shares of common stock at $85 per share, for an aggregate cost of approximately $4 billion (including transaction costs of approximately $3 million). All of the shares repurchased under the tender offer were retired immediately. The cost of the repurchase was financed with a portion of the net proceeds of the borrowings under the Credit Agreement discussed in Note 10 and cash on hand. The share and per-share information in this paragraph is stated on a pre-split basis.
In January 2006, the Board of Directors approved a $1 billion stock repurchase program. Note 26 provides information on share repurchases made under this program through August 2006.
 
Changes in common stock issued and treasury stock held for 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as presented in the following table. As discussed in Note 26, on June 14, 2006, the company executed a two-for-one split of Kerr-McGee common stock issued and outstanding as of that date. Common stock held in treasury was unaffected by the split. The following table presents changes in common stock issued and held in treasury on a pre-split basis, followed by disclosure of common stock outstanding as revised to give retroactive effect to the stock split.
 
As revised to reflect the effect of the stock split, the balances of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
 
There are 2,215,384 shares of the company's common stock registered in the name of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company. These shares are not included in the number of shares shown in the preceding tables or in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These shares are not entitled to be voted.
 The company has had a stockholders' rights plan since 1986. The current rights plan is dated July 26, 2001, and replaced the previous plan prior to its expiration. Rights were distributed as a dividend at the rate of one right for each share of the company's common stock and continue to trade together with each share of common stock. Generally, the rights become exercisable the earlier of 10 days after a public announcement that a person or group has acquired, or a tender offer has been made for, 15% or more of the company's then-outstanding stock. If either of these events occurs, each right would entitle the holder (other than a holder owning more than 15% of the outstanding stock) to buy the number of shares of the company's common stock having a market value two times the exercise price. The exercise price is $215. Generally, the rights may be redeemed at $.01 per right until a person or group has acquired 15% or more of the company's stock. The rights expire in July 2006. Refer to Note 26 for information regarding a 2006 amendment to the rights plan.
Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan
 
19.
Employee Stock-Based Compensation Plans
Information included below should be read in connection with Note 26 which describes the effect of certain 2006 events on the company's stock-based awards.
 The 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (Plan) authorizes the issuance of shares of the company's common stock to certain employees and non-employee directors any time prior to May 10, 2015, in the form of fixed-price stock options, restricted stock or performance awards. The options may be accompanied by stock appreciation rights. A total of 10 million shares (on a pre-split basis) of the company's common stock is authorized to be issued under the Plan, of which a maximum of 3 million shares of common stock (on a pre-split basis) is authorized for issuance in connection with awards of restricted stock and performance awards to employees. The Plan also includes certain limitations on the size of awards to an individual employee and to non-employee directors as a group. Subject to these limits, a committee of the Board of Directors administering the Plan (Committee) determines the size and types of awards to be issued.
Overview
The maximum period for exercise of an option granted under the Plan may not be more than ten years from the date the grant is authorized by the Committee and the exercise price may not be less than the fair value of the shares underlying the option on the grant authorization date. Performance awards may be granted in the form of performance shares or performance units, with performance period of no less than one year. Subject to the Plan provisions, the Committee determines the terms of the awards, such as dates on which the awards become fully vested and, for performance awards, performance period and performance goal(s) to be achieved to receive a specified benefit from the award.
At December 31, 2005, approximately 10 million shares of Kerr-McGee stock (on a pre-split basis) were available to be granted under the Plan. Prior to the approval of the Plan by the company's stockholders, stock-based awards were granted under similar plans, all of which have been terminated. Although no more awards can be issued under those plans, their termination had no effect on awards previously issued and outstanding.
Stock-based awards granted by the company to its employees and non-employee directors during the last three years generally had the following terms:
 
 
The following summarizes stock-based compensation expense recognized in income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, determined based on the intrinsic value of the awards. As discussed in Note 1, as a result of implementing a new accounting standard effective January 1, 2006, stock-based compensation expense in future periods will be based on the fair value of the awards.
 
 As provided in the Employee Benefits Agreement between Kerr-McGee and Tronox, except for vested stock options and performance unit awards, Kerr-McGee stock-based awards held by Tronox employees at the date of the Distribution will be forfeited and replaced with stock-based awards of comparable value issued by Tronox. The conversion ratio will be determined on the effective date of the Distribution based on the relative values of Kerr-McGee common stock and Tronox Class A common stock. Generally, Tronox employees holding vested options to purchase Kerr-McGee common stock as of the date of the Distribution may exercise such options for the lesser of three months after the effective date of the Distribution or the remaining term of the option award. Vested options not exercised during the specified time period will expire.
Effect of Tronox Separation
 The following summarizes information about shares of restricted stock granted during the last three years (information presented in the table and discussion that follows does not give effect to the two-for-one stock split discussed in Note 26):
Restricted Stock
 
At December 31, 2005, 1.2 million unvested shares of restricted stock were outstanding. In the first quarter of 2006, the company granted 241,000 additional shares with an estimated grant-date fair value per share of $98.58. Approximately 92,000 shares of Kerr-McGee's restricted stock held by Tronox employees at December 31, 2005 are expected to be forfeited, as discussed under above.
Effect of Tronox Separation
 The following summarizes information about the company's performance unit awards for 2005, 2004 and 2003:
Performance Units
 
At December 31, 2005, the carrying value of the company's aggregate liability for performance units was $21 million, $8 million of which was paid to eligible employees in January 2006. In the first quarter of 2006, the company granted an additional 17 million performance units to its employees. The terms of performance units issued in 2006 are consistent with previously issued awards. It is expected that approximately 2.5 million performance units held by Tronox employees as of December 31, 2005 will be forfeited, as discussed above under .
Effect of Tronox Separation
 
 The following table summarizes the stock option transactions during 2005, 2004 and 2003 under Kerr-McGee's compensation plans and in connection with the Westport merger. As discussed in Note 4, on June 25, 2004, the company completed its merger with Westport. In connection with the merger, the company exchanged Westport options outstanding as of the merger date for Kerr-McGee options based on the exchange factor set forth in the merger agreement. Information presented in the table does not give effect to the two-for-one stock split discussed in Note 26.
Stock Options
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options issued under the plans described above that are outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2005. Approximately 160,000 Kerr-McGee options held by Tronox employees (on a pre-split basis) are expected to be forfeited, as discussed above under . Information presented in the table does not give effect to the two-for-one stock split discussed in Note 26.
Effect of Tronox Separation
 
Following provisions of the long-term incentive plans, stock options outstanding as of June 14, 2006, the date of the two-for-one stock split, were modified, whereby the number of shares subject to each option was doubled and the exercise price decreased 50%. The following table presents the number of shares subject to stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and associated weighted average exercise prices, as adjusted for the stock split:
 
 
 In 1989, the company's Board of Directors approved a leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) into which the company's matching contribution for the employees' contributions to the Kerr-McGee Corporation Savings Investment Plan (SIP) is paid. Most of the company's employees are eligible to participate in the SIP and matching contributions to the ESOP fund are contingent upon participants' contributions to the SIP.
Employee Stock Ownership Plan
In 1989, the ESOP trust borrowed $125 million from a group of lending institutions and used the proceeds to purchase approximately 3 million shares of the company's treasury stock. The company used the $125 million in proceeds from the sale of the stock to acquire shares of its common stock in open-market and privately negotiated transactions. In 1996, a portion of the third-party borrowings was replaced with a note payable to the company (sponsor financing), which was fully paid in 2003. The third-party borrowings were repaid in 2005.
In 1999, the company merged with Oryx Energy Company, which sponsored the Oryx Capital Accumulation Plan (CAP). CAP was a combined stock bonus and leveraged employee stock ownership plan available to substantially all U.S. employees of the former Oryx operations. During 1999, the company merged the Oryx CAP into the ESOP and SIP. In 1989, Oryx privately placed $110 million of notes pursuant to the provisions of the CAP. Oryx loaned the proceeds to the CAP, which used the funds to purchase Oryx common stock that was placed in a trust. Because this loan represents sponsor financing, it does not appear in the accompanying balance sheet. The remaining balance of the sponsor financing is $25 million at year-end 2005.
Shares of stock allocated to the ESOP participants' accounts and in the loan suspense account are as follows:
 
The shares in the loan suspense account at December 31, 2005, included approximately 22,000 released shares that were allocated to participants' accounts in January 2006. At December 31, 2004, the shares in the loan suspense account included approximately 34,000 released shares that were allocated to participants' accounts in January 2005.
Compensation expense related to the plan was $14 million, $13 million and $33 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively (of which $4 million in each of 2005 and 2004 and $10 million in 2003 was associated with discontinued Tronox operations). These amounts include interest expense incurred on the third-party ESOP debt, which was not material for 2005, 2004 or 2003. The company contributed $14 million, $17 million and $42 million to the ESOP in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Included in the respective contributions were $8 million, $10 million and $37 million for principal and interest payments on the financings. The cash contributions are net of $1 million, $3 million and $4 million for the dividends paid on the company stock held by the ESOP trust in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
20.
Business Segments
In 2006, the company completed the separation of Tronox and expanded its segment presentation based on the way management currently reviews operating results to make decisions about resource allocation and assess individual segment performance. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit, which represents results of operations before considering marketing activities, certain corporate costs, oil and gas derivatives, interest and debt expense, and other income (expense). Segment information for prior periods has been restated to conform with this new presentation, except information concerning total assets by segment which is not available.
The company has four operating segments, all of which are in the business of crude oil and natural gas exploration and production (E&P). In the U.S., the company operates offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and onshore in the Rocky Mountain and Southern (Midcontinent) areas. We also have exploration and production operations in China, and exploration activities in Alaska, Brazil and other international locations.
 
The following table sets forth the revenues and operating profit for each of our operating segments, as well as reconciliation to income from continuing operations before income taxes.
 
 
21.
Costs Incurred in Crude Oil and Natural Gas Activities
The following reflects total expenditures, both capitalized and expensed, for crude oil and natural gas property acquisition, exploration and development activities for the three years ended December 31, 2005.
 
 
22.
Results of Operations from Crude Oil and Natural Gas Activities
The results of operations from crude oil and natural gas activities (excluding discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows:
 
The table below presents the company's average per-unit sales price of crude oil and natural gas and lifting costs (lease operating expense and production and ad valorem taxes) per barrel of oil equivalent for continuing operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005. Natural gas production has been converted to a barrel of oil equivalent based on approximate relative heating value (6 Mcf equals 1 barrel).
 
 
23.
Capitalized Costs Related to Crude Oil and Natural Gas Activities
Capitalized costs related to crude oil and natural gas activities and the related reserves for depreciation, depletion and amortization at the end of 2005 and 2004 are set forth in the table below. Capitalized costs presented as assets held for sale and of discontinued operations at December 31, 2004 primarily relate to the North Sea oil and gas business, which was sold in 2005, as discussed in Note 2.
 
Exploratory Drilling Costs
Under the successful efforts method of accounting, the costs of drilling an exploratory well are capitalized pending determination of whether proved reserves can be attributed to the discovery. In the case of onshore wells and offshore wells in relatively shallow water, that determination usually can be made upon or shortly after cessation of exploratory drilling operations. However, such determination may take longer in other areas (specifically, deepwater exploration and international locations) depending upon, among other things, (i) the amount of hydrocarbons discovered, (ii) the outcome of planned geological and engineering studies, (iii) the need for additional appraisal drilling to determine whether the discovery is sufficient to support an economic development plan and (iv) the requirement for government sanctioning in certain international locations before proceeding with development activities. As a consequence, the company has capitalized costs associated with exploratory wells on its Consolidated Balance Sheet at any point in time that may be charged to earnings in a future period if management determines that commercial quantities of hydrocarbons have not been discovered.
 When initial drilling operations are complete, management determines whether the well has discovered oil and gas reserves and, if so, whether those reserves can be classified as proved. Often, the determination of whether proved reserves can be recorded under strict Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) guidelines cannot be made when drilling is completed. In those situations where management believes that commercial hydrocarbons have not been discovered, the exploratory drilling costs are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income as dry hole costs (a component of exploration expense). Where sufficient hydrocarbons have been discovered to justify further exploration and/or appraisal activities, exploratory drilling costs are deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheet pending the outcome of those activities.
Initial and Ongoing Assessment of Deferred Exploratory Drilling Costs
At the end of each quarter, operating and financial management review the status of all deferred exploratory drilling costs in light of ongoing exploration activities  in particular, whether the company is making sufficient progress in its ongoing exploration and appraisal efforts or, in the case of discoveries requiring government sanctioning, whether development negotiations are under way and proceeding as planned. If management determines that future appraisal drilling or development activities are not likely to occur in the future, any associated exploratory well costs are expensed in that period.
 
 The following table presents the amount of capitalized exploratory drilling costs relating to continuing operations at December 31 for each of the last three years, and changes in those amounts during the years then ended (excluding costs incurred and either reclassified to proved oil and gas properties or charged to expense in the same year):
Financial Statement Balances
 
At December 31, 2005, the company had capitalized costs of approximately $208 million associated with ongoing exploration and/or appraisal activities, primarily in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Alaska, Brazil and China. The following table presents the total amount of exploratory drilling costs at year-end 2005 by geographic area, including the length of time such costs have been carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheet:
 
 The majority of exploratory drilling costs deferred at year-end are associated with wells that are either (i) drilling at December 31, (ii) in an area requiring a major capital expenditure or additional appraisal activities before recording proved reserves such as the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Alaska, Brazil and China, or (iii) subject to government review and approval of our development plans. The company has no deferred drilling costs associated with areas that require gas sales contracts or project financing in order to proceed with development plans. The following discussion describes major projects shown in the table above with costs deferred beyond one year from the balance sheet date.
Analysis of Exploratory Costs at December 31, 2005
 Costs incurred in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico prior to 2004 ($25 million) relate to an exploration well located in an area requiring additional appraisal activity before the determination of proved reserves can be made. The drilling rig for this well was released in October 2003 after successfully encountering hydrocarbons. The company is conducting appraisal activities at this time. Management expects that appraisal drilling may occur during 2006; however, if management determines during the year that future appraisal drilling is not likely to occur, all capitalized costs will be charged to exploration expense.
Deepwater Gulf of Mexico
 Costs incurred in Alaska prior to 2005 ($20 million) are associated with the company's Nikaitchuq discovery on Alaska's North Slope. The discovery well was followed by an appraisal well drilled during 2004. Further appraisal drilling and flow testing was carried out in 2005. Development assessment and planning for this discovery is under way. The company is working towards possible development sanctioning in 2006.
Alaska
 Costs incurred prior to 2005 ($10 million) are associated with the BMC-7 discovery located in the Campos Basin offshore Brazil. The original discovery well was drilled in 2004, followed by two successful appraisal wells in 2005. A successful flow test of one of these wells was also conducted during 2005. Development planning is under way and these costs have been deferred pending formal approval of a development plan.
Brazil
 
Costs incurred in China prior to 2005 ($9 million) are associated with the CFD 14-5-1 discovery drilled in late 2004. Further assessment of the discovery is under way utilizing 3-D seismic data obtained to the west of the discovery well to develop an appraisal plan. If management determines that future appraisal drilling is not likely to occur, all capitalized costs will be charged to exploration expense.
China 
24.
Crude Oil, Condensate, Natural Gas Liquids and Natural Gas Net Reserves (Unaudited)
The following tables show estimates of proved reserves prepared by the company's engineers in accordance with the SEC definitions. Data is shown for crude oil in millions of barrels, for natural gas in billions of cubic feet (Bcf) at a pressure base of 14.73 pounds per square inch and for total proved reserves in millions of barrels of oil equivalent. For total proved reserves, natural gas is converted to barrels of oil equivalent using a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet of natural gas per barrel.
During 2005, the company expanded the involvement of third-party engineers in its reserve estimation processes. In July 2004, the company engaged Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI) to provide independent third-party review of the company's procedures and methods for reserves estimation. During 2004, NSAI performed a procedures and methods review of about 43% of the company's year-end 2004 proved reserves. In 2005, NSAI's review was expanded to 75% of the company's year-end proved reserves. The purpose of NSAI's ongoing review is to verify that reserve estimates prepared by the company's internal technical staff are in accordance with the guidelines and definitions of the SEC using generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. As a result of its review, NSAI determined that the procedures and methods were reasonable and estimates had been prepared in accordance with Rule 4-10(a) of SEC Regulation S-X and generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. A copy of the NSAI report is included as exhibit 99 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In 2006 the company plans to continue third-party review of its reserves estimation procedures and methods.
The company's estimates of proved reserves are derived from data prepared by its engineers using available geological and reservoir data, as well as production performance data. These estimates are reviewed annually and revised, either upward or downward, as warranted by additional data. Revisions of previous estimates can occur due to changes in, among other things, reservoir performance, prices, economic conditions and governmental restrictions. For example, a decrease in commodity price could result in a decrease in proved reserves as the economic limit of a reservoir might be reached sooner. Conversely, an improvement in reservoir performance could result in an increase in proved reserves, indicating higher ultimate recovery from previous estimates.
The company's engineering staff is highly skilled with average industry experience of more than 20 years. The company relies primarily on its internal engineering expertise, augmented by third-party engineering oversight and advice to ensure objective estimates of the company's proved reserves. The company mitigates the inherent risks associated with reserve estimation through a comprehensive reserves administration process. The company's process includes:
 
 
 
The following tables summarize changes in the estimated quantities of proved reserves for the three years ended December 31, 2005. As more fully discussed in Note 2, in 2005, the company divested its North Sea oil and gas business, which is reported as a discontinued operation for all periods presented, and certain onshore oil and gas properties in the United States. As discussed in Note 26, in August 2006, Kerr-McGee sold its interest in Gulf of Mexico shelf oil and natural gas properties to W&T. Proved reserves for the company's Gulf of Mexico shelf assets are included in the following tables as a component of continuing operations and are less than 10% of the company's total proved reserves at year-end 2005. As described in Note 4, we completed a merger with Westport in 2004, which resulted in reserve additions of 281 million barrels of oil equivalent.
 
 
The following presents the company's barrel of oil equivalent proved developed and undeveloped reserves based on approximate heating value (6 Mcf equals 1 barrel).
 
 
 
25.
Standardized Measure of and Reconciliation of Changes in Discounted Future Net Cash Flows (Unaudited)
The standardized measure of future net cash flows presented in the following table was computed using year-end prices and costs and a 10% discount factor. The future income tax expense was computed by applying the appropriate year-end statutory rates, with consideration of future tax rates already legislated, to the future pretax net cash flows less the tax basis of the associated properties. However, the company cautions that actual future net cash flows may vary considerably from these estimates. Although the company's estimates of total proved reserves, development costs and production rates were based on the best information available, the development and production of the oil and gas reserves may not occur in the periods assumed. Actual prices realized, costs incurred and production quantities may vary significantly from those used. Therefore, such estimated future net cash flow computations should not be considered to represent the company's estimate of the expected revenues or the current value of existing proved reserves.
 
The changes in the standardized measure of future net cash flows are presented below for each of the past three years:
 
 
26.
Subsequent Events
Merger with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (Anadarko)
On June 22, 2006, Kerr-McGee and Anadarko entered into a definitive agreement providing for the company's merger with a subsidiary of Anadarko. After receiving approval from the majority of the company's stockholders, the merger was completed on August 10, 2006 and all of the company's issued and outstanding common stock was acquired by Anadarko for cash consideration of $70.50 per-share. Consistent with the provisions of the company's long term incentive plans, upon completion of the merger, all options to purchase Kerr-McGee common stock, shares of Kerr-McGee restricted stock and performance units outstanding as of the merger date became fully vested. All outstanding stock options were cancelled and the option holders received cash consideration for each option equal to the excess of $70.50 per-share over the exercise price (subject to applicable tax withholdings). Restrictions on all shares of restricted stock outstanding as of the merger date lapsed and the holders received the same merger consideration as the holders of Kerr-McGee unrestricted common stock. The company's performance unit awards were settled in cash consistent with the provisions of the long-term incentive plans under which they were issued.
On June 23, 2006, the company entered into an amendment to render the stockholders' rights plan discussed in Note 18 inapplicable to (i) the approval, execution or delivery of the merger agreement with Anadarko, (ii) the announcement of the merger, (iii) the consummation of the merger or the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement and (iv) the acquisition of the company's common stock pursuant to the merger or the merger agreement. In addition, the amendment provides for the extension of the expiration date of the rights plan from July 26, 2006 to July 22, 2016; and the termination of the rights plan upon the earliest of the expiration date, redemption, exchange or immediately prior to the effective date of the merger.
Other Subsequent Events
Information in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto has been updated since their original issuance in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 to reflect the effects of matters discussed below:
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in . Based on our assessment using those criteria, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, our internal control over financial reporting are effective.
Internal Control-Integrated Framework
We conduct a portion of our oil and gas operations through joint operating agreements with other companies. Under a portion of these joint operating agreements, the other company is the operator of the well and charges us a proportional share of the cost of the well and the on-going well operations. Under the agreements, we have the contractual right to audit the charges billed to us, but we do not have the contractual right or ability to dictate or modify the internal controls over financial reporting of these entities and do not have the ability, in practice, to assess those controls. Therefore, the internal controls over financial reporting at these operations have not been included in our assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. These oil and gas operations are owned through undivided interests and are accounted for under the proportionate consolidation method in our consolidated financial statements. These properties had total property, plant and equipment assets and total revenues of $368 million and $269 million, respectively, representing 16% and 7% of our corresponding consolidated financial statement amounts, and 57% and 66% of our corresponding Exploration and Production Segment amounts, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Management's assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.
 
 
 
To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Western Gas Resources, Inc.:
We have completed integrated audits of Western Gas Resources, Inc.'s 2005 and 2004 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 and audits of its 2004 and 2003 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
Consolidated financial statements
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Western Gas Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of computing depletion for oil and gas properties effective January 1, 2004, its method of accounting for asset retirement obligations effective January 1, 2003, and its method of testing long-lived assets for impairment in 2003.
Internal control over financial reporting
Also, in our opinion, management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in issued by COSO. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
 
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
As described in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management has excluded its oil and gas operations managed by other joint interest operators from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 because the Company does not have the ability to dictate or modify the controls of these entities and does not have the ability, in practice, to assess those controls. We have also excluded the internal controls over financial reporting at these oil and gas operations managed by other joint interest operators from our audit of internal control over financial reporting. These oil and gas operations are owned through undivided interests and are accounted for under the proportionate consolidation method in the Company's consolidated financial statements. These properties had total property, plant and equipment assets and total revenues of $368 million and $269 million, respectively, representing 16% and 7% of the corresponding consolidated financial statement amounts, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Denver, Colorado
March 14, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1 - NATURE OF ORGANIZATION
Western Gas Resources, Inc. (the "Company") explores for, develops and produces, gathers, processes and treats, transports and markets natural gas and natural gas liquids ("NGLs"). In its upstream operations, the Company explores for, develops and produces natural gas reserves primarily in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States and Canada. In its midstream operations the Company designs, constructs, owns and operates natural gas gathering, processing and treating facilities and owns and operates regulated transportation facilities, and offers marketing services in order to provide its customers with a broad range of services from the wellhead to the sales delivery point. The Company's midstream operations are conducted in major gas-producing basins in the Rocky Mountain, Mid-Continent and Southwestern regions of the United States.
In 2002, the Company adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan under which Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock Purchase Rights were distributed as a dividend at the rate of one-half of one right for each share of its common stock held by stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 9, 2002. Each right entitles the Stockholder, subject to adjustment, to buy one unit consisting of 1/100
th
of a share of a new series of preferred stock for $180 per unit. The right generally will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Company's then outstanding common stock or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which a person or group would beneficially own 15% or more of its then outstanding common stock. The rights will expire on March 22, 2011.
In June 2004, the Company completed a two-for-one split of its common stock, which was distributed in the form of a stock dividend. Stockholders of the Company's common stock received one additional share for every share of common stock held on the record date of June 4, 2004. After the stock split, each share of common stock outstanding or thereafter issued includes or will include one-half of a Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock purchase right. The Company has restated its financial information to reflect this split for all periods presented.
In February 1994, the Company issued 2,760,000 shares of $2.625 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $50 per share, at a public offering price of $50 per share, redeemable at the Company's option on or after February 16, 1997 and convertible at the option of the holder into Common Stock at a per share conversion price of $19.88. In November 2003 and in December 2003, the Company issued notices of redemption for approximately 700,000 and 800,000 shares, respectively, of its $2.625 cumulative convertible preferred stock at the liquidation preference plus 0.525% premium. In relation to the notice of redemption issued in November 2003, in December 2003 a total of 1,701,400 common shares were issued and $1.2 million was paid in cash to complete the redemption. In relation to the notice of redemption issued in December 2003, in January 2004 a total of 1,979,244 common shares were issued and $672,000 was paid in cash. In March 2004, the Company issued an additional notice of redemption for the remaining 1,260,000 shares of its $2.625 cumulative convertible preferred stock. In April 2004, the Company issued an additional 3,113,582 shares of common stock to holders who elected to convert their shares and paid $391,000 in cash proceeds to complete this redemption. After these redemptions, the $2.625 cumulative convertible preferred stock was delisted from trading on the New York Stock Exchange and was deregistered by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Significant Projects and Asset Divestitures
In October 2004, the Company acquired oil and gas assets in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico for approximately $82.2 million, plus assumed liabilities. The purchase also included related gathering systems, which are connected to the Company's San Juan River plant. In connection with this acquisition, the Company increased Oil and gas properties and equipment by $72.6 million and increased Gas gathering, processing and transportation by $13.3 million.
Acquisition of San Juan Properties.
In February 2005, the Company acquired certain natural gas gathering and processing assets in the eastern Greater Green River Basin for approximately $28.3 million.
Acquisition and Disposition of Gathering Systems.
In February 2003, the Company acquired several gathering systems in Wyoming, primarily located in the Greater Green River Basin with smaller operations in the Powder River and Wind River Basins, for a total of $37.1 million. Several of the systems located in the Powder River did not integrate directly into the Company's existing systems, and accordingly these systems were sold in 2003. During the year ended December 31, 2003, the income generated by the assets sold was immaterial.
 
The Company continues to develop its Powder River Basin coal bed methane reserves and expand the associated gathering system. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company expended approximately $174.5 million, $106.9 million and $71.0 million, respectively, on this project.
Powder River Basin Coal Bed Methane.
The Company's assets in southwest Wyoming and northwest Colorado include the Granger and Lincoln Road facilities (collectively the "Granger Complex"), the Company's 50% equity interest in Rendezvous Gas Services, L.L.C. ("Rendezvous"), the Patrick Draw facility, the Red Desert facility, the Wamsutter gathering system, and production from the Jonah Field, Pinedale Anticline and Sand Wash areas. During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company expended approximately $108.2 million, $63.9 million and $102.5 million, respectively, in this area.
Greater Green River Basin.
Subsequent Events
In February 2006, the Company signed an agreement for the purchase of certain CBM properties and related gathering assets in the Big George fairway of the Powder River Basin of Wyoming from an undisclosed seller for approximately $136.7 million before adjustments. Closing is expected to occur on or before March 15, 2006 and will be funded with amounts available under the Company's revolving credit facility. The purchase price includes the drilling rights on approximately 40,000 gross and net acres and 110 drilled wells. Approximately 70 of the drilled wells are currently dewatering and the remaining 40 wells are awaiting hookup.
NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The significant accounting policies followed by the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries are presented here to assist the reader in evaluating the financial information contained herein. The Company's accounting policies are in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries. All material inter-company transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company's interest in certain non-controlled investments is accounted for by the equity method. The Company proportionately consolidates less than 100 percent-owned affiliate partnerships in which the company has an undivided interest.
Principles of Consolidation
The cost of gas and NGL inventories are determined by the weighted average cost method on a location-by-location basis. Gas and NGL inventory which has been sold forward is accounted for on a specific identification basis. Product inventory is accounted for at the lower of cost or market and includes $127.4 million and $88.8 million of gas and $2.9 million and $1.6 million of NGLs at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Inventories.
Property and equipment is recorded at cost, including capitalized interest. Interest incurred during the construction period of new projects is capitalized and amortized over the life of the associated assets. Repair and maintenance of property and equipment is expensed as incurred.
Property and Equipment.
Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful life of each facility, which ranges from three to 35 years. Useful lives are determined based on the shorter of the life of the equipment or the hydrocarbon reserves serviced by the equipment.
In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003, a review was completed of the Company's operating assets. As a result of this evaluation, the operating lives and salvage values of the associated equipment was reevaluated, and the Company extended the useful life of many of its operating assets and adjusted the estimated salvage value of its operating equipment. These adjustments resulted in an approximate $10.7 million, or $0.10 per share of common stockassuming dilution, decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization in the year ended December 31, 2003, from the expense calculated using the previous useful lives. The adjustments to the salvage value and depreciable lives of the Company's assets were treated as a revision of an estimate and were accounted for on a prospective basis.
In December 2004, the Company placed into service a new 200 MMcf per day processing facility adjacent to its Granger Complex. This facility straddles a third-party regulated pipeline and processes its gas to meet pipeline specifications. The facility's capacity is contractually committed to this service, and the contract for processing this gas requires a monthly charge to be paid by the pipeline regardless of the amount of gas processed. These fees total approximately $2.2 million per year and the contract has a remaining term of nine years. In accordance with EITF 01-08, "Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease", facilities that are built to provide services to one specific customer should be evaluated for potential treatment as capital leases. The Company has determined that accounting for this contract as a capital lease is appropriate. On the Consolidated Balance Sheet, at December 31, 2005 and 2004 related to this transaction, the Company had receivables of $20.6 million and $22.4 million, respectively, in Other assets for the fixed portion of the non-current future lease payments plus the unguaranteed residual value at the end of the lease term and $2.2 million for
 
both years in Other Current assets. The Company also had deferred revenue on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005 and 2004 totaling $15.7 million and $17.8 million, respectively, in Other long-term liabilities for the non-current deferred revenue and $2.0 million for both years in Accrued expenses for the current portion.
The Company follows the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas exploration and production activities. Acquisition costs, development costs and successful exploration costs are capitalized. Upon surrender or impairment of undeveloped properties, the original cost is charged against income. Developed and undeveloped leaseholds with proved reserves are depleted by the units-of-production method based on estimated proved reserves. Development costs and related equipment are depleted and depreciated by the units-of-production method based on estimated proved developed reserves.
Oil and Gas Properties and Equipment.
Exploratory lease rentals and geological and geophysical costs are charged to expense as incurred. Exploratory drilling costs are capitalized when incurred pending the determination of whether a well has found proved reserves. The determination of whether a well has found proved reserves is based on a process that relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, and engineering data. If an exploratory well is determined to be unsuccessful, the capitalized drilling costs will be charged to expense in the period the determination is made. If an exploratory well requires a major capital expenditure before production can begin, the cost of drilling the exploratory well will continue to be carried as an asset pending determination of whether proved reserves have been found only as long as: i) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well if the required capital expenditure is made, and ii) drilling of additional exploratory wells is under way or firmly planned for the near future. If the drilling of additional exploratory wells in the area is not under way or firmly planned, or if the well has not found a commercially producible quantity of reserves, the exploratory well is assumed to be impaired, and its costs are charged to expense.
The following table reflects the net changes in capitalized exploratory well costs during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (000s).
 
Period end capitalized exploratory well costs (000s) and number of gross wells at December 31, 2005:
 
Substantially all of the Company's exploratory wells that have been capitalized for a period greater than one year are located in the Powder River Basin. In this basin, the Company drills wells into various coal seams. These wells are completed and lease-operating costs are being incurred. In order to produce gas from the coal seams, a period of dewatering lasting from a few to thirty-six months, or in some cases longer, is required prior to obtaining sufficient gas production to justify capital expenditures for compression and gathering, and to classify the reserves as proved. In order to accelerate the dewatering time, the Company drills additional exploratory wells in these areas.
Effective January 1, 2004, the Company redefined the asset groupings for the calculation of depreciation and depletion on its oil and gas properties from a well-by-well basis to a field wide basis for each of the Jonah, Pinedale and Sand Wash fields and to a grouping of all wells drilled into related coal seams for the Powder River Basin. This change resulted in an increase in Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of $4.9 million in 2004. The change in the depreciation and depletion methodology is treated as a change in accounting principle. Accordingly, the Accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization for these assets has been recalculated under the new methodology. The cumulative effect of the change in depreciation and depletion methodology for the year ended
 
December 31, 2004 was a benefit of $4.7 million, net of tax and is presented in the Consolidated Statement of Operations under the caption Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax.
Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and such amounts as measured by tax laws. These temporary differences are determined and accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."
Income Taxes.
The Company has two subsidiaries in Canada. The functional currency of these subsidiaries is the Canadian dollar. The assets and liabilities associated with these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate as of the balance sheet date and revenues and expenses at the weighted-average of exchange rates in effect during each reporting period. The translation change for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were ($1.6) million, $816,000 and $1.2 million, respectively, net of tax, included as a separate component in Stockholders' equity.
Foreign Currency Adjustments.
In the Gas Gathering, Processing and Treating segment, the Company recognizes revenue for its services at the time the service is performed. The Company records revenue from its gas and NGL marketing activities, including sales of the Company's equity production, upon transfer of title. In accordance with EITF 03-11, "Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and Not Held for Trading Purposes as Defined in Issue No. 02-3", the Company records revenue on its physical gas and NGL marketing activities on a gross basis versus sales net of purchases basis because it obtains title to all the gas and NGLs that it buys including third-party purchases, bears the risk of loss and credit exposure on these transactions, and it is the Company's intention upon entering these contracts to take physical delivery of the product. Gas imbalances on the Company's production are accounted for using the sales method. Gas imbalances on the Company's production at December 31, 2005 and 2004 are immaterial. For its marketing activities the Company utilizes mark-to-market accounting for its derivatives. In the Transportation segment, the Company realizes revenue on a monthly basis from firm capacity contracts under which the shipper pays for transport capacity whether or not the capacity is used and from interruptible contracts where a fee is charged based upon volumes received into the pipeline. See additional discussion in "Note 9  Business Segments and Related Information".
Revenue Recognition.
In order to minimize transportation costs or make product available at a location of the customer's preference, from time to time, the Company will enter into arrangements to buy product from a party at one location and arrange to sell a like quantity of product to this same party at another location. In accordance with EITF 04-13, these transactions will be required to be reported on a sales net of purchases basis. This EITF is effective for transactions entered into or modified after March 15, 2006. To the extent transactions are required to be netted, it will result in a reduction of revenues and costs by an equal amount, but will have no impact on net income or cash flows. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded revenues of $148.7 million, $92.6 million and $95.5 million, respectively, and product purchases of $140.8 million, $86.7 million and $84.2 million, respectively, for transactions which were entered into concurrently and with the intent to buy and sell like quantities with the same counter party at different locations and at market prices at those locations.
The Company recognizes the change in the market value of all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position, and measures those instruments at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income depending upon the nature of the underlying transaction. See additional discussion in "Note 4- Commodity Risk Management"
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.
Accumulated other comprehensive income is reported as a separate component of Stockholders' equity. Accumulated other comprehensive income includes cumulative translation adjustments for foreign currency transactions and the change in fair market value of cash flow hedges. The Company's accumulated gains on cash flow hedges at December 31, 2005 totaled $2.7 million and will be reclassified into earnings during 2006. These items are separately reported on the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity.
Comprehensive Income.
The Company reviews its long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The Company's assets are evaluated at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets. In order to determine whether an impairment exists, the Company compares its net book value of the asset to the undiscounted expected future net cash flows, primarily determined by applying future prices estimated by management over the shorter of the lives of the facilities or the reserves supporting the facilities or oil and gas properties. If an impairment exists, write-downs of assets are based upon the fair market value of the asset, usually based on expected future net cash flows discounted using an interest rate commensurate with the risk associated with the underlying asset. For unevaluated oil and gas properties, the Company annually reviews its development plans and drilling history in that area to determine if an impairment of those properties is warranted.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.
 
The Company reviews its assets at the plant facility, the related group of plant facilities or the oil and gas producing field or producing coal seam level. Prior to 2003, the Company completed its impairment analysis on its oil and gas producing properties on an individual well-by-well basis. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company conducted a review of its oil and gas producing properties, which included an evaluation of the geologic formations and production history for the Company's producing properties. This review indicated that the cash flows from individual wells in its operating areas were not largely independent of the cash flows of other wells producing in the same field or coal seam. As a result of this review, the Company redefined the asset groupings to a field wide analysis for impairment for the Jonah, Pinedale and Sand Wash Basins and a grouping of all wells drilled into related coal seams for the Powder River Basin. These asset groupings were used to determine if any impairment was necessary for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and it was determined that none of the asset groups were impaired.
The Company accounts for asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" ("SFAS 143"), which was adopted by the Company on January 1, 2003. SFAS 143 requires the Company to recognize the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. Under the provisions of SFAS 143, asset retirement obligations are capitalized as part of the carrying value of the long-lived asset. Subsequently, the asset retirement costs included in the carrying amount of the related asset are allocated to expense through depreciation or depletion of the asset. The majority of the Company's asset retirement obligations relate to dismantling plants and related facilities and reclaiming the sites and plugging and abandoning oil and gas wells. The Company adopted SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003 and recorded an $11.5 million increase to Property and equipment, a $4.4 million increase to Accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization, a $17.8 million increase to Other long-term liabilities and a $6.7 million non-cash, after-tax loss from the Cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.
Asset Retirement Obligations.
The following is a reconciliation of the asset retirement obligation for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (000's):
 
Earnings per share of common stock are computed by dividing income attributable to common stock by the weighted average shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, earnings per share of common stockassuming dilution is computed by dividing income attributable to common stock by the weighted average shares of common stock outstanding as adjusted for potential common shares. Income attributable to common stock is net income less preferred stock dividends. The following table presents the dividends declared by the Company for each class of its outstanding equity securities (000's, except per share amounts):
Earnings Per Share of Common Stock.
 
Common stock options, unvested restricted stock granted and, until the final conversion or redemption in April 2004, the Company's $2.625 cumulative convertible preferred stock are potential common shares. The following is a reconciliation of the weighted average shares of common stock outstanding to the weighted average common shares outstanding  assuming dilution. The share information presented reflects the two-for-one common stock split completed in 2004.
 
 
The calculation of fully diluted earnings per share reflects potential common shares, if dilutive, and any related preferred dividends.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of trade accounts receivable and over-the-counter ("OTC") swaps and options. The risk related to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the large number of entities comprising the Company's customer base and their dispersion across geographic locations. The Company records its trade accounts receivable at the invoiced amount, which does not include interest. The risk related to OTC swaps and options is limited due to the investment grade nature of the Company's counter-parties and the ability of the Company to clear many of its OTC transactions through the New York Mercantile Exchange ("NYMEX"). For contracts cleared on the NYMEX, the NYMEX guarantees payment or delivery.
Concentration of Credit Risk.
The Company continually monitors and reviews the credit exposure to its marketing counter parties. In the second half of 2005, the prices of natural gas and NGLs, and therefore the Company's credit exposures, increased significantly. Additionally, as a result of the damage in the Gulf States caused by hurricanes Katrina and Rita, several of the Company's counterparties experienced a significant amount of damage to their operating assets. In September 2005, one of the Company's customers, a utility serving the New Orleans area, filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. At the time of the bankruptcy filing, the Company had an outstanding account receivable from this utility of $4.1 million. In the third quarter of 2005, the Company reserved $800,000 against this amount, which represents its best estimate of the current market value of this receivable. During 2004 and 2003, the Company did not increase its allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company records an allowance for doubtful accounts on a specific identification basis, and the balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts was $829,000 and $648,000, respectively, at December 31, 2005 and 2004.
Cash and cash equivalents includes all cash balances and highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Cash and Cash Equivalents.
Interest paid, including capitalized interest, was $28.2 million, $22.3 million, and $28.0 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Capitalized interest associated with construction of new projects was $7.7 million, $2.5 million and $1.8 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Income taxes paid were $35.7 million, $9.4 million and $11.1 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, lease receivables of $22.6 million and $24.6 million, respectively, and unearned revenue liabilities of $17.7 million and $19.8 million, respectively, were recorded for the lease of the Granger 200MMcf per day straddle plant. Asset retirement obligation assets of $14.8 million and $10.7 million were recorded for capitalized assets and asset retirement obligation liabilities of $17.2 million and $12.1 million were recorded for the years ending December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had outstanding disbursements to vendors and producers totaling $97.8 million and $66.4 million, respectively, which were reclassified to Accounts payable. The change in outstanding disbursements to vendors and producers is presented as a component of Cash flows from financing activities in the Statement of Cash Flows.
Supplementary Cash Flow Information.
The Company enters into derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in commodity prices on the results of its operations. As these contracts are considered a key component of the Company's operations, the Company classifies the cash flows related to these contracts in Net cash provided by operating activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
As permitted under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", the Company has elected to continue to measure compensation costs for stock-based employee compensation plans as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". The Company has complied with the pro forma disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 as required under the pronouncement. The Company realizes an income tax benefit from the exercise of non-qualified stock options related to the amount by which the market price at the date of exercise exceeds the option price. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, this tax benefit of $7.7 million and $2.5 million, respectively, was credited to Additional paid-in capital.
Stock Compensation.
The Company had options covering 27,000 and 49,438 common shares outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which were treated as re-priced options and had no such options outstanding at December 31, 2005. The Company is required to record compensation expense (if not previously accrued) equal to the number of unexercised re-priced options multiplied by the amount by which its stock price at the end of any quarter exceeds $10.5021 per share. Based on the Company's per share stock price at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 of $47.09, $29.25 and $23.63, respectively; expense of $506,000, $310,000 and $529,000 was recorded in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
In 2005, the Company granted 383,000 shares of restricted common stock to its employees. In conjunction with the grant of restricted common stock, the Company will record as compensation expense over the three-year vesting period, the value of the restricted common stock on the date of grant. Accordingly, the Company recorded compensation expense of $2.4 million related to its restricted stock in the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
SFAS No. 123 requires pro forma disclosures for each quarter that a Statement of Operations is presented. The following is a summary of the options to purchase the Company's common stock granted during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
The following is a summary of the weighted average fair value per share of the options granted during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
These values were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
 
Under SFAS No. 123, the fair market value of the options at the grant date is amortized over the appropriate vesting period for purposes of calculating compensation expense. If the Company had recorded compensation expense for its grants under its stock-based compensation plans consistent with the fair value method under this pronouncement, the Company's net income, income attributable to common stock, earnings per share of common stock and earnings per share of common stock - assuming dilution would approximate the pro forma amounts below (000s, except per share amounts):
 
 
The fair market value of the options at grant date is amortized over the appropriate vesting period for purposes of calculating compensation expense.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses, including depletion, during the reporting period. Therefore, the reported amounts of the Company's assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and associated disclosures with respect to contingent assets and obligations are necessarily affected by these estimates. These estimates are evaluated on an ongoing basis, utilizing historical experience, consultation with experts and other methods considered reasonable in the particular circumstances. Nevertheless, actual results may differ significantly from the estimates used. Any effects on the Company's business, financial position or results of operations resulting from revisions to these estimates are recorded in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.
Use of Estimates and Significant Risks.
The Company is subject to a number of risks inherent in the industry in which it operates, including price volatility, counterparty credit risk, the success of its drilling programs and other gas supply. The Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will depend significantly upon the prices received for gas and NGLs. These prices are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the control of the Company. In addition, the Company must continually connect new wells to its gathering systems in order to maintain or increase throughput levels to offset natural declines in dedicated volumes. The number of new wells drilled by the Company and other producers will depend upon, among other factors, prices for gas and oil, the drilling budgets of third-party producers, the energy and tax policies of the federal and state governments, the pace at which permits required for drilling and production operations are obtained, and the availability of foreign oil and gas, none of which are within the Company's control.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.
SFAS No. 123(R), "was issued in December 2004 and must be adopted no later than annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. This pronouncement requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and other forms of stock based compensation. Currently, the Company is complying with the pro forma disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123, " which are included in "Note 2  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to Consolidated Financial Statements".
SFAS No. 123(R).
Share Based Payment"
"Accounting for Stock Based Compensation
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," ("SFAS 123(R)") which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options and employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("employee stock purchases") based on estimated fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes the Company's previous accounting under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25") for periods beginning in fiscal 2006. In March 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ("SAB 107") relating to SFAS 123(R). The Company will apply the provisions of SAB 107 in its adoption of SFAS 123(R).
The Company will adopt SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which requires the application of the accounting standard as of January 1, 2006, the first day of the Company's fiscal year 2006. The Company's Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2006 will reflect the impact of SFAS 123(R). In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements for prior periods will not be restated to reflect, and will not include, any impact of SFAS 123(R). Stock-based compensation expense to be recognized under SFAS 123(R) for the three months ended March 31, 2006 will be approximately $2.5 million for stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options.
SFAS 123(R) requires companies to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company accounted for stock-based awards to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB 25 as allowed under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"). Under the intrinsic value method, with the exception of the Chief Executive Officer and President's Plan, no stock-based compensation expense had been recognized in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations, since the exercise price of the Company's stock options granted to employees and directors equaled the fair market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant.
Stock-based compensation expense to be recognized is based on the value of the portion of share-based payment awards that is ultimately expected to vest during the period. Stock-based compensation expense to be recognized in the Company's Consolidated
 
Statement of Operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 will include compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006. This expense will be based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123. Compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to December 31, 2005 will be based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company will continue its method of attributing the value of stock-based compensation using the straight-line single option method. As stock-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 will be based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it will be reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. In the Company's pro forma information required under SFAS 123, presented in Note 2 under the heading "Stock Compensation", for the periods prior to fiscal 2006, the Company also estimated compensation expense based on awards ultimately expected to vest.
In accordance with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company will continue to use the Black-Scholes option pricing model ("Black-Scholes model") for the valuation of share-based awards. The Company's determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by the Company's stock price as well as assumptions regarding variables, including, but not limited to the Company's expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. In management's opinion, the Black-Scholes model provides an accurate measure of the fair value of the Company's employee stock options.
On November 10, 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3 "Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards" ("FSP"). This FSP allows the Company to take up to one year from the later of its initial adoption of SFAS 123(R) or the effective date of the FSP to evaluate the available transition alternatives related to the accounting for the tax effects of share-based payment awards. Accordingly, the Company is considering the alternatives and has not yet elected a transition method.
SFAS No. 151, "was issued in November 2004 and is effective for the Company for inventory costs incurred in fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005, and will be applied prospectively. SFAS No. 151 amends APB Opinion No. 43, Chapter 4, "Inventory Pricing" to clarify the accounting for abnormal amounts of costs and the allocation of fixed production overheads. The Company believes that the adoption of SFAS No. 151 will not affect its earnings, financial position or cash flows.
SFAS No. 151.
Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4"
At its September 2005 meeting, the Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, of the FASB approved Issue No. 04-13, "". This Issue addresses the question of when it is appropriate to measure non-monetary purchases and sales of inventory at fair value and record them in cost of sales and revenues and when they should be recorded as an exchange measured at the book value of the item sold. EITF 04-13 requires two or more exchange transactions involving inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another should be combined for the purposes of evaluating the effect of APB Opinion No. 29, "Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions".
EITF No. 04-13.
Accounting for Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty
In order to minimize transportation costs or make product available at a location of our customer's preference, from time to time, the Company will enter into arrangements to buy product from a party at one location and arrange to sell a like quantity of product to this same party at another location. In accordance with EITF 04-13, these transactions will be required to be reported on a sales net of purchases basis. This EITF is effective for transactions entered into or modified after March 15, 2006. To the extent transactions are required to be netted, it will result in a reduction of revenues and costs by an equal amount, but will have no impact on net income or cash flows.
In accordance with EITF 03-11, the Company records revenue on these transactions on a gross basis versus sales net of purchases basis because the Company obtains title to the product that it buys, bears the risk of loss, credit and performance exposure on these transactions, and takes physical delivery of the product. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recorded revenues of $148.7 million, $92.6 million and $95.5 million, respectively, and product purchases of $140.8 million, $86.7 million and $84.2 million, respectively, for transactions which were entered into concurrently and with the intent to buy and sell like quantities with the same counter party at different locations and at market prices at those locations.
FASB Interpretation No. 47, "", or FIN 47, was issued in March 2005 and is effective for fiscal periods ending after December 15, 2005. FIN 47 clarifies the term "conditional asset retirement obligation" as used in FASB Statement 143, "". Conditional asset retirement obligations as used in FASB Statement 143 refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform an asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of settlement. Accordingly, an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair
FASB Interpretation No. 47.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
 
value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. When sufficient information exists, uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement should be factored into the measurement of the liability. The Company adopted this interpretation in the fourth quarter of 2005 and the adoption did not have a material impact on its results of operation, financial position or cash flows.
NOTE 3 - RELATED PARTIES
From time to time, the Company enters into joint ventures and partnerships in order to reduce risk, create strategic alliances and to establish itself in oil and gas producing basins in the United States. It is our policy that all transactions entered into by the Company with its related parties are consummated in the ordinary course of business and on terms that would be comparable to those obtained from third parties.
Fort Union Gas Gathering, L.L.C. ("Fort Union"), owns a gathering pipeline and treater in the Powder River Basin. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company owned an approximate 15% and 13% interest, respectively, in Fort Union and is the construction manager and field operator. The Company accounts for its investment in this entity under the equity method of accounting as it has significant influence over the operations of this entity. Construction and expansions of the gathering header and treating system were project financed by Fort Union. At December 31, 2005, Fort Union had total project financing debt outstanding of $29.2 million. This debt is amortizing on an annual basis and is scheduled to be fully paid in 2009. All participants in Fort Union have guaranteed Fort Union's payment of the project financing on a proportional basis, resulting in the Company's guarantee of $4.3 million of the debt of Fort Union. This guarantee is not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Fort Union.
The Company has entered into long-term agreements for firm gathering services on 83 MMcf per day of capacity for $0.14 per Mcf on Fort Union. The Company acts as field operator of Fort Union and charges a monthly overhead fee to cover such services. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company received overhead fees from Fort Union totaling $11,000, $43,000 and $(2,000), respectively, and the Company paid to Fort Union a total of $7.2 million, $5.0 million and $6.4 million for gathering services, respectively. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had a net amount due to Fort Union of $663,500 and $7,000, respectively. At December 31, 2005, the Company's investment in Fort Union totaled $5.4 million and is included in Investments in joint ventures on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company owned a 50% interest in Rendezvous Gas Services, L.L.C., ("Rendezvous") and the Company serves as field operator of its systems. Rendezvous was formed in 2001 to gather gas for the Company and other third parties along the Pinedale Anticline for blending or processing at either the Company's Granger Complex or at a third-party owned processing facility. The Granger Complex utilizes Rendezvous to deliver significant volumes of gas contractually dedicated to the Granger Complex for processing or blending. In December 2005, approximately 76% of the gas processed or blended at the Granger Complex was delivered to the facility by Rendezvous. The other 50% owner in Rendezvous is a large utility with oil and gas production and gathering and processing assets in the same area. At December 31, 2005, the Company had a total of $31.4 million invested in this venture and it is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The investment is included in Investments in joint ventures on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company charges a monthly overhead fee to act as field operator of Rendezvous and an overhead charge for capital projects it constructs on behalf of the venture. In 2005 and 2004, the Company received overhead fees as field operator from Rendezvous totaling $100,000 for both years and overhead fees on capital projects totaling $24,800 and $42,800, respectively. In 2005 and 2004, the Company paid to Rendezvous a total of $7.4 million and $3.9 million, respectively, for gathering services. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had a net amount due to Rendezvous of $501,000 and $1.2 million, respectively.
Rendezvous.
In prior years, the Company had entered into agreements committing the Company to loan to certain key employees an amount sufficient to exercise their options as each portion of their options vests under the Key Employees' Incentive Stock Option Plan. The loan and accrued interest were to be forgiven if the employee was continually employed by the Company and upon a resolution of the board of directors. At December 31, 2002, loans related to 55,000 shares of common stock totaling $295,000 were outstanding under these programs. Pursuant to the terms of an agreement entered into in 2001, these loans were forgiven in May 2003. As of December 31, 2003, there were no loans outstanding under these programs and the program is no longer in effect. In prior years, the Company had accrued for the forgiveness of this loan. In October 2001, the Company's former Chief Executive Officer and President retired. The Company had entered into a consulting agreement with this executive providing for a payment of $175,000 that was made in May 2003.
Officer Transactions.
NOTE 4 - COMMODITY RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company's commodity price risk management program has two primary objectives. The first goal is to preserve and enhance the value of its equity volumes of gas and NGLs with regard to the impact of commodity price movements on cash flow and net income in relation to those anticipated by the Company's operating budget. The second goal is to
Risk Management Activities.
 
manage price risk related to the Company's marketing activities to protect profit margins. This risk relates to fixed price purchase and sale commitments, the value of storage inventories and exposure to physical market price volatility.
The Company utilizes a combination of fixed price forward contracts, exchange-traded futures and options, as well as fixed index swaps, basis swaps and options traded in the over-the-counter, or OTC, market to accomplish these goals. These instruments allow the Company to preserve value and protect margins because corresponding losses or gains in the value of the financial instruments offset gains or losses in the physical market.
The Company also uses financial instruments to reduce basis risk. Basis is the difference in price between the physical commodity being hedged and the price of the futures contract used for hedging. Basis risk is the risk that an adverse change in the futures market will not be completely offset by an equal and opposite change in the cash price of the commodity being hedged. Basis risk exists in natural gas primarily due to the geographic price differentials between cash market locations and futures contract delivery locations.
The Company enters into futures transactions on the NYMEX and OTC swaps and options with various counterparties, consisting primarily of investment banks, financial institutions and other natural gas companies. The Company conducts credit reviews of all of its OTC counterparties and has agreements with many of these parties that contain collateral requirements. The Company generally uses standardized swap agreements that allow for offset of positive and negative OTC exposures with the same counterparty. OTC exposure is marked-to-market daily for the credit review process. Our exposure to OTC credit risk is reduced by the Company's ability to require a margin deposit from its counterparties based upon the mark-to-market value of their net exposure. The Company is also subject to margin deposit requirements under these same agreements and under margin deposit requirements for its NYMEX transactions. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had posted margin deposits totaling $31.2 million and $7.9 million, respectively, with various counterparties.
The use of financial instruments may expose the Company to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances when (i) the Company's equity volumes are less than expected, (ii) the Company's customers fail to purchase or deliver the contracted quantities of natural gas or NGLs, or (iii) the Company's OTC counter parties fail to perform. To the extent that the Company engages in hedging activities, it may be prevented from realizing the benefits of favorable price changes in the physical market. However, it is similarly insulated against decreases in such prices.
All hedging contracts related to our equity production are designated and accounted for as cash flow hedges. As such, gains and losses related to the effective portions of the changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of Stockholders' equity. Realized gains or losses on these cash flow hedges are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations through Sale of gas or Sale of natural gas liquids when the hedged transactions occur. Realized and unrealized gains or losses represented by the periodic or final cash settlements from economic hedges are included in Price risk management activities on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Economic hedges are financially settled derivatives that either were not designated or did not qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133. These are marked-to-market through earnings.
To qualify as cash flow hedges, the hedge instruments must be designated as cash flow hedges and changes in their fair value must be highly effective at offsetting changes in the price of the forecasted transaction being hedged so that the Company's exposure to the risk of commodity price changes is reduced. To meet this requirement, the Company hedges the price of the commodity, and if applicable, the basis between that derivative's contract delivery location and the cash market location used for the actual sale of the product. This structure attains a high level of effectiveness, ensuring that a change in the price of the forecasted transaction will result in an equal and opposite change in the price of the derivative instrument hedging the transaction. In 2004 and 2003, the Company utilized crude oil as a surrogate hedge for natural gasoline, butane and condensate. In 2005, the Company utilized crude oil as a surrogate hedge for natural gasoline and condensate. These hedges were tested for effectiveness at inception and on a quarterly basis thereafter. Regression analysis based on a five-year period of time was used for these tests. In the first quarter of 2004, the Company determined in its quarterly effectiveness testing that its hedges of equity butane production which utilized crude oil puts as a surrogate were no longer effective hedges. Therefore, in the first quarter of 2004, the Company discontinued cash flow hedge accounting treatment on these instruments. The value of these financial instruments remained in Accumulated other comprehensive income and was reclassified to the Company's results of operations in 2004 as the underlying transactions occurred. Gains or losses from the ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recognized currently in earnings through Price risk management activities. During the year ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company recognized losses of $208,000, $159,000 and $110,000, respectively, from the ineffective portions of its hedges.
In 2003, in order to properly align the Company's hedged volumes of natural gas to its forecasted equity production, the Company discontinued hedge treatment on financial instruments for 10 MMcf per day of natural gas and 50,000 barrels per month of ethane. As a result, a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million was reclassified into earnings from Accumulated other comprehensive income. There were no gains or losses reclassified into earnings as a result of the discontinuance of cash flow hedges in 2005 or 2004.
 
Account balances related to equity hedging transactions at December 31, 2005 were $23.4 million in Current Assets from price risk management activities, $19.3 million in Current Liabilities from price risk management activities, $1.5 million in Deferred income tax payable, net, and a $2.7 million after-tax unrealized gain in Accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of Stockholders' Equity. Based on the commodity prices as of December 31, 2005, the after-tax gain will be re-classified from Accumulated other comprehensive income to Sale of gas or Sale of natural gas liquids during 2006.
As of December 31, 2005, the Company held a notional quantity of approximately 286 Bcf of natural gas futures, swaps and options extending from January 2006 to October 2008 with a weighted average duration of approximately six months. This was comprised of approximately 105 Bcf of long positions and 181 Bcf of short positions in these instruments. As of December 31, 2004, the Company held a notional quantity of approximately 342 Bcf of natural gas futures, swaps and options extending from January 2005 to October 2006 with a weighted average duration of approximately five months. This was comprised of approximately 151 Bcf of long positions and 191 Bcf of short positions in these instruments.
Natural Gas Derivative Market Risk
.
As of December 31, 2005, the Company held a notional quantity of approximately 50,400 MGal of NGL futures, swaps and options extending from January 2006 to December 2006 with a weighted average duration of approximately six months. This was comprised of approximately 25,200 MGal of long positions and 25,200 MGal of short positions in these instruments. As of December 31, 2004, the Company held a notional quantity of approximately 163,800 MGal of NGL futures, swaps and options extending from January 2005 to December 2005 with a weighted average duration of approximately six months. This was comprised of approximately 100,800 MGal of long positions and 63,000 MGal of short positions in these instruments.
Crude Oil and NGL Derivative Market Risk.
. As a normal part of its business, the Company enters into physical gas transactions which are payable in Canadian dollars. The Company enters into forward purchases and sales of Canadian dollars from time to time to fix the cost of its future Canadian dollar denominated natural gas purchase, sale, storage and transportation obligations. This is done to protect marketing margins from adverse changes in the U.S. and Canadian dollar exchange rate between the time the commitment for the payment obligation is made and the actual payment date of such obligation. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had sold forward contracts for $45.7 million in Canadian dollars in exchange for $38.9 million in U.S. dollars, and the fair market value of these contracts was a loss of $490,000 in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had sold forward contracts for $31.3 million in Canadian dollars in exchange for $24.0 million in U.S. dollars, and the fair market value of these contracts was a liability of $2.1 million in U.S. dollars.
Foreign Currency Derivative Market Risk
NOTE 5 - DEBT
The following summarizes the Company's consolidated debt at the dates indicated (000s):
 
At December 31, 2005, the commitment under the revolving credit facility was $700 million and it matures in November 2010. At December 31, 2005, $285.0 million was outstanding under this facility. Loans made under this facility are secured by a pledge of the capital stock of our significant subsidiaries, and these subsidiaries also guarantee the borrowings under the facility.
Variable Rate Revolving Credit Facility.
The borrowings under the Company's credit facility bear interest at Eurodollar rates or a base rate, as requested by it, plus an applicable percentage based on its debt to capitalization ratio. The base rate is the agent's published prime rate. The Company also pays a quarterly commitment fee on undrawn amounts ranging between 0.10% and 0.30%, depending on its debt to capitalization ratio. This fee is paid on unused amounts of the commitment. As of December 31, 2005, the interest rate payable on borrowings under this facility was approximately 5.3% per year. Under the credit facility, the Company is subject to a number of covenants, including: maintaining a total debt to capitalization ratio of not more than 55% and maintaining a ratio of EBITDA, as defined in the credit facility, to interest over the last four quarters in excess of 3.0 to 1.0. The credit facility ranks equally with borrowings under the Company's master shelf agreement with The Prudential Insurance Company. This facility has been rated Ba1 by Moody's and BB+ by Standard and Poor's.
 
Amounts outstanding under the Company's master shelf agreement at December 31, 2005 are as indicated in the following table (dollars in thousands):
Master Shelf Agreement.
 
The Company's borrowings under its master shelf agreement are secured by a pledge of the capital stock of the Company's significant subsidiaries. These subsidiaries also guarantee the borrowings under this facility. All of the borrowings under the Company's master shelf agreement can be prepaid prior to their final maturity by paying a yield-maintenance fee. Under the Company's master shelf agreement, the Company is subject to a number of covenants, including: maintaining a total debt to capitalization ratio of not more than 55% and maintaining a quarterly test of EBITDA, as defined in the master shelf agreement, to interest for the last four quarters in excess of 3.0 to 1.0.
In December 2004, the Company gave notice to Prudential of its intention to prepay the $25 million note due January 17, 2008. This note bore interest at 6.36% per annum and was prepaid at par on January 18, 2005. To fund the prepayment, the Company issued a new $25 million note to Prudential, due January 2015 and bearing interest at 5.57% per annum. During 2006, the Company will make scheduled payments totaling $10.0 million on this facility. The Company intends to fund this repayment with funds available under the revolving credit facility.
In 1999, the Company sold $155.0 million of senior subordinated notes in a private placement with a final maturity of 2009 due in a single payment which were subsequently exchanged for registered publicly tradable notes under the same terms and conditions. The subordinated notes bore interest at 10% per annum. The Company incurred approximately $5.0 million in offering commissions and expenses, which were capitalized and were being amortized over the term of the notes. The Company redeemed the senior subordinated notes in June 2004 using amounts available under the revolving credit facility and an additional borrowing under the master shelf agreement. In connection with this redemption, a prepayment penalty of $7.75 million was paid and expensed and approximately $2.9 million of unamortized offering commissions were expensed.
Senior Subordinated Notes.
Approximate future maturities of long-term debt in the year indicated are as follows at December 31, 2005 (000s):
 
NOTE 6 - FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company, using available market information and valuation methodologies, has determined the estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments as follows (000s):
 
Considerable judgment is required to develop the estimates of fair value; thus, the estimates provided herein are not necessarily indicative of the amount that the Company could realize upon the sale or refinancing of such financial instruments. The Company in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments used the following methods and assumptions:
Due to the short-term nature of these instruments, the carrying value approximates the fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents, margin deposits, trade accounts receivable and accounts payable.
 
The Company's long-term debt was comprised of fixed and floating rate facilities. The fair market value for the fixed rate debt was estimated using discounted cash flows based upon the Company's current borrowing rates for debt with similar maturities. The floating rate portion of the long-term debt was borrowed on a revolving basis, which accrues interest at current rates; as a result, carrying value approximates fair value of this outstanding debt.
Long-term debt.
Fair value represents the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current arms-length transaction.
Derivative contracts.
NOTE 7 - INCOME TAXES
The provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is comprised of (000s):
 
Not included above is the tax (expense) and benefit, respectively, allocated to the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of approximately ($2.7) million and $4.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. There were no such items in 2005.
Temporary differences and carry-forwards which give rise to the deferred tax liabilities (assets) at December 31, 2005 and 2004, net of the tax effect of the cumulative change in accounting principle, are as follows (000s):
 
The differences between the provision for income taxes at the statutory rate and the actual provision for income taxes, before the tax effect of the change in accounting principle, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are summarized as follows (000s):
 
At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company had AMT credit carry-forwards for federal income tax purposes of approximately $20.6 million and $43.4 million, respectively. These carry-forwards have no expiration.
The Company believes that the AMT credit carry-forwards will be realized because they are substantially offset by existing taxable temporary differences reversing or are expected to be realized by achieving future profitable operations based on the Company's dedicated and owned reserves, past earnings history and projections of future earnings.
 
At December 31, 2005, the Company had net operating loss carryovers ("NOLs") for various states which are immaterial and the Company does not expect to benefit from their utilization. Accordingly, a valuation allowance has been recorded against the entire amount of the NOL.
NOTE 8 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Litigation.
The Company, along with over 300 other natural gas companies, are defendants in litigation filed on September 30, 1997, in 72 separate actions filed by Mr. Grynberg on behalf of the federal government. The allegations made by Mr. Grynberg are that established gas measurement and royalty calculation practices improperly deprived the federal government of appropriate natural gas royalties and violate 31U.S.C. 3729(a)(7) of the False Claims Act. The cases have been consolidated to the United States District Court for the District of Wyoming. Discovery on the jurisdictional issues is being completed to determine if this matter qualifies as a qui tam, or class, action. The defendants' joint Motion to Dismiss was argued before a special master on March 17 and 18, 2005 and, as a result thereof, the special master has recommended to the court that claims against several of the defendants, including Western, be dismissed. The recommendation is pending before the court.
United States of America and ex rel. Jack J. Grynberg v. Western Gas Resources, Inc., et al., United States District Court, District of Colorado, Civil Action No. 97-D-1427.
Western is a defendant in litigation filed on September 23, 1999, along with numerous other natural gas companies, in which Mr. Price is claiming an under measurement of gas and Btu volumes throughout the country. The Company along with other natural gas companies filed a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim. The court denied these motions to dismiss. The court denied plaintiff's motion for certification as a class and, in the third quarter of 2003, the plaintiff amended and refiled for certification as a class. On May 12, 2003, Mr. Price filed a further claim, , relating to certain matters previously removed from the foregoing action. The Company believes that Mr. Price's claims are without merit and intends to vigorously contest the allegations in this case.
Price, et al. v. Gas Pipelines, Western Gas Resources, Inc., et al., District Court, Stevens County, Kansas, Case No. 99-C-30.
Will Price et al v. Western Gas Resources, Inc. et al., District Court, Stevens County, Kansas, Case No. 03C23
On October 17, 2005, the plaintiff, in its capacity as the liquidating trustee of the successor in interest to Farmland Industries, Inc., filed an amended complaint joining the Company and other defendants to this action. The complaint claims that the defendants violated the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act by reporting allegedly "misleading or knowingly inaccurate reports concerning trade information" to trade publications that compile and publish indices of natural gas prices for natural gas trading hubs throughout the United States. The complaint asserts that these alleged activities had the effect of increasing prices charged by the defendants for natural gas and preventing full and free competition. The plaintiff seeks to recover damages in the amount of the full consideration of its purchases of natural gas during the time period from January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2001, together with its costs of litigation including attorney's fees. The Company believes that the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously contest the allegations in this case.
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, in its Capacity as Trustee of the FI Liquidating Trust v. Oneok Inc. et al., United States District Court, for the District of Kansas, Case No. 05-2389CM.
On November 4, 2005, the plaintiffs, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated, filed an amended Petition for Damages, joining the Company and other defendants to this action. The Petition claims that the defendants violated the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act by reporting allegedly "misleading or knowingly inaccurate reports concerning trade information" to trade publications that compile and publish indices of natural gas prices for natural gas trading hubs throughout the United States. The complaint asserts that the allegedly anticompetitive effect of the defendant's actions was to artificially inflate the prices paid by the plaintiffs for natural gas. The plaintiffs are bringing the action as a class action on behalf of all persons and entities in Kansas who made direct purchases of natural gas, for their own use and or consumption, during the time period from January 1, 2000 through October 31, 2002. The plaintiffs are seeking judgment for the full consideration of their purchases of natural gas purchased during such time period, together with costs of litigation including attorney's fees. The Company believes that the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously contest the allegations in this case.
Learjet, Inc., Cross Oil Refining & Marketing, Inc. Topeka Unified School District 501, on Behalf of Themselves and All Other Similarly Situated Direct Purchasers of Natural Gas in the State of Kansas v. Oneok, Inc. et al, In the District Court of Wyandotte County, Kansas, Civil Action No. 05-CV-1500.
The Company is involved in various other litigation and administrative proceedings arising in the normal course of business. In the opinion of the Company's management, any liabilities that may result from these claims will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flow.
Other Litigation.
Commitments.
As a normal course of the Company's business operations, the Company enters into operating leases for office space and office, communication and transportation equipment. In addition, primarily to support its growing development in the
Lease Commitments.
 
Powder River Basin coal bed development, the Company has entered into operating leases for compression equipment. These leases are classified as operating leases and have terms ranging from one month to ten years. The majority of the leases for compression have purchase options at various times throughout the primary terms of the agreements and have renewal provisions. Rental payments under operating leases have totaled $18.4 million, $15.3 million and $13.8 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Future operating lease payments by year under these leases are as follows (000s):
 
The Company enters into firm transportation agreements with interstate pipeline companies as a part of its marketing operations and to ensure that its equity production has access to downstream markets. At December 31, 2005, these agreements have terms ranging from one month to twelve years. Payments under these agreements have totaled $38.9 million, $29.3 million and $26.4 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Future payments by year under these agreements are as follows (000s):
Firm Transportation Capacity.
 
The Company enters into storage agreements with various third parties primarily as part of its marketing operations. Payments under these agreements totaled $7.0 million, $6.2 million and $5.2 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had contracts in place for approximately 17.0 Bcf of storage capacity at various third-party facilities. The associated contract periods have an average term of 32 months. Future payments by year under these agreements are as follows (000s):
Storage Capacity.
 
In the first quarter of 2005, the Company's board of directors approved the Amended and Restated Directors' Health Plan, which is available to persons who were directors as of January 1, 2005. The terms of the Plan provide that for the duration of each director's tenure on the board, the director, and the director's eligible spouse, if any, is entitled to elect to receive substantially similar benefits as provided to executive officers under the Company's group health plan and a supplemental coverage plan. Following each director's retirement from the board, the director, and the director's eligible spouse, if any, will remain entitled to participate in the Plan until reaching the age of Medicare eligibility. Upon a director or covered spouse attaining Medicare eligibility age, Medicare will become the primary health insurance for such person and the Company will at that time provide supplemental health coverage only. In the event that any retired director or spouse, if any, becomes entitled to participate in another employer sponsored health plan and is obligated to bear less than one-half of the cost of such coverage, then that plan will become the primary health coverage for such person for the duration of such entitlement. As of December 31, 2005, a third-party actuary estimates that the present value of total projected benefits under this plan to the directors will total approximately $1.0 million. This amount will be accrued over the remaining period of their current terms. As of December 31, 2005, the Company has accrued $480,000 for this future benefit obligation.
Post Retirement Benefits.
NOTE 9 - BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION
The Company operates in four principal business segments, as follows: Gathering, Processing and Treating; Exploration and Production; Marketing; and Transportation. Management separately monitors these segments for performance against its internal
 
forecast and these segments are consistent with the Company's internal financial reporting package. These segments have been identified based upon the differing products and services, regulatory environment and the expertise required for these operations.
In the Gathering, Processing and Treating segment, collectively with the Marketing and Transportation segments referred to as the midstream operations, the Company connects producers' wells (including those of the Company's Exploration and Production segment) to its gathering systems for delivery of natural gas to its processing or treating plants, processes the natural gas to extract NGLs and treats the natural gas in order to meet pipeline specifications. In some areas, where no processing is required, the Company gathers and compresses producers' gas and delivers it to pipelines for further delivery to market. Except for volumes taken in kind by the Company's producers, the Marketing segment sells the gas and NGLs extracted at most of its facilities.
Gathering, Processing and Treating.
In this segment, the Company recognizes revenue for its services at the time the service is performed. Included in this segment is the Company's Powder River Basin coal bed methane gathering operation, which gathers gas from producers, including the Company's Exploration and Production segment. In 2003, this service for the Exploration and Production segment was performed under a percentage-of-proceeds contract and in 2004 and 2005, this service was performed under a fee-based contract. The change of contract type had no effect on the Operating profit of either the Gathering, Processing and Treating segment or the Exploration and Production segment.
Substantially all gas flowing through the Company's gathering, processing and treating facilities is supplied under three types of contracts providing for the purchase, treating or processing of natural gas for periods ranging from one month to twenty years or, in some cases, for the life of the oil and gas lease. Approximately 81% of the Company's plant facilities' gross margin, or revenues at the plant less product purchases, for the month of December 2005 was under percentage-of-proceeds agreements in which the Company is typically responsible for the marketing of the gas and NGLs. Under these agreements, the Company pays producers a specified percentage of the net proceeds received from the sale of the gas and the NGLs. Revenue is recognized when the gas or NGLs are sold and the related product purchases are recorded as a percentage of the sale of the product.
Approximately 17% of the Company's plant facilities' gross margin for the month of December 2005 was under contracts that are primarily fee-based from which the Company receives a set fee for each Mcf of gas gathered and/or processed. This type of contract provides the Company with a steady revenue stream that is not dependent on commodity prices, except to the extent that low prices may cause a producer to delay drilling or shut in production. Revenue is recognized under these contracts when the related services are rendered.
Approximately 2% of the Company's plant facilities' gross margin for the month of December 2005 was under contracts with "keepwhole" arrangements or wellhead purchase contracts. Under the keepwhole contracts, the Company retains the NGLs recovered by the processing facility and keeps the producers whole by returning to the producers at the tailgate of the plant an amount of gas equal on a Btu basis to the natural gas received at the plant inlet. The keepwhole component of the contracts permits the Company to benefit when the value of the NGLs is greater as a liquid than as a portion of the residue gas stream. However, the Company is adversely affected when the value of the NGLs is lower as a liquid than as a portion of the residue gas stream. Revenue is recognized when the product is sold.
The activities of the Exploration and Production segment, also referred to as upstream operations, include the exploration and development of gas properties in the Rocky Mountain area, including those where the Company's gathering and/or processing facilities are located. The Marketing segment sells the majority of the production from these properties and remits to the Exploration and Production segment all of the proceeds from the sales of gas and its proportional share of transportation charges. Also included in this segment are the Company's Canadian exploration and development operations, which are conducted through its wholly owned subsidiary Western Gas Resources Canada Company and which are immaterial for separate presentation.
Exploration and Production.
The Company's Marketing segment markets gas and NGLs extracted at its gathering, processing and treating facilities and produced from its exploration and production assets and buys and sells gas and NGLs in the United States and Canada from and to a variety of customers. In this segment, revenues for sales of product are recognized at the time the gas or NGLs are delivered to the customer and title passes. Revenues in this segment are sensitive to changes in the market prices of the underlying commodities. The marketing of products purchased from third-parties typically results in low operating margins relative to the sales price. The Company sells its products under agreements with varying terms and conditions in order to match seasonal and other changes in demand. Also included in this segment are the Company's Canadian marketing operations, which are conducted through its wholly owned subsidiary WGR Canada, Inc. and which are immaterial for separate presentation.
Marketing.
During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company sold gas to a variety of customers including end-users, pipelines, energy merchants, local distribution companies and others. In 2005, no single customer accounted for more than
 
approximately 13% of the Company's consolidated revenues from the sale of gas, or 10% of total consolidated revenue. In 2004, no single customer accounted for more than approximately 9% of the Company's consolidated revenues from the sale of gas, or 7% of total consolidated revenue. In 2003, no single customer accounted for more than 6% of the Company's consolidated revenues from the sale of gas, or 5% of total consolidated revenue.
During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company sold NGLs to a variety of customers including end-users, fractionators, chemical companies, energy merchants and other customers. In 2005, one customer accounted for approximately 23% of the Company's consolidated revenues from the sale of NGLs, or 3% of total consolidated revenue. This customer is a large integrated energy company. In 2004, one customer accounted for approximately 51% of the Company's consolidated revenues from the sale of NGLs, or 7% of total consolidated revenue. This customer is a large integrated energy company. In 2003, two customers accounted for approximately 49% of the Company's consolidated revenues from the sale of NGLs, or 6% of total consolidated revenue. One of these customers is a large integrated energy company and the other is a large petrochemical company.
The Transportation segment reflects the operations of the Company's MIGC, Inc. and MGTC, Inc. pipelines. The revenue presented in this segment is derived from transportation of gas for the Company's Marketing segment and third parties. In this segment, the Company realizes revenue on a monthly basis from firm capacity contracts under which the shipper pays for transport capacity whether or not the capacity is used and from interruptible contracts where a fee is charged based upon volumes received into the pipeline. The Transportation segment's capacity contracts range in duration from one month to five years.
Transportation.
The following table sets forth the Company's segment information as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (000s). Due to the Company's integrated operations, the use of allocations in the determination of business segment information is necessary. Inter-segment revenues are valued at prices comparable to those of unaffiliated customers.
Segment Information.
Year Ended December 31, 2005:
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2004:
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2003:
 
NOTE 10 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
A discretionary retirement plan (a defined contribution plan) exists for all domestic Company employees meeting certain service requirements. The Company may make annual discretionary contributions to the plan as determined by the board of directors, and during the two years ended December 31, 2004 and through May 30, 2005, the match of employee contributions was a sliding scale of 60% to 100% of the first 5% of employee compensation based upon years of service. Effective as of June 1, 2005, the match of employee contributions was increased to equal 100% of the first 6% of employee compensation. In addition, employee vesting of Company contributions was accelerated to a three-year vesting period. Contributions are made to Fidelity Management Trust Company, as trustee. The trustee invests the funds in accordance with the participants' investment elections into mutual funds and a fund to purchase the Company's common stock. The discretionary contributions made by the Company were $3.3 million, $3.1 million and $2.2 million, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The matching contributions were approximately $2.0 million, $1.5 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
Retirement Plan.
 
Effective March 1999, the board of directors of the Company adopted a 1999 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan ("1999 Directors Plan") that authorized the granting of options to purchase 30,000 shares of the Company's common stock. During 1999, the board approved options grants covering 30,000 shares to several board members. Under this plan, each of these options becomes exercisable as to 33 1/3% of the shares covered by it on each anniversary from the date of grant. This plan terminates on the earlier of March 12, 2009 or the date on which all options granted under the plan have been exercised in full.
1999 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan.
The 1993 Stock Option Plan ("1993 Plan"), the 1997 Stock Option Plan ("1997 Plan"), and the 1999 Stock Option Plan ("1999 Plan") became effective on March 29, 1993, May 21, 1997, and May 21, 1999, respectively, after approvals by the Company's stockholders. Each plan is intended to be an incentive stock option plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Company reserved 2,000,000 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of options under each of the 1993 Plan and the 1997 Plan and 1,500,000 shares of common stock for issuance upon exercise of options under the 1999 Plan. The 1993 Plan terminated on March 29, 2003. The 1997 Plan and the 1999 Plan will terminate on the later of May 21, 2007 and May 21, 2009, respectively, or the date on which all the respective options granted under each of the plans have expired or been exercised in full. Although options covering 745,204 shares are available to be granted under the 1997 Plan, no further options will be granted under this plan. During 2004, options covering 140,876 shares were granted under the 1999 Plan.
1993, 1997 and 1999 Stock Option Plans.
Pursuant to the Employment Agreement, dated October 15, 2001, and the Stock Option Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2001, between the Company and Peter A. Dea, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President, non-qualified stock options were granted for the purchase of 600,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The exercise price of the options was equal to $2.50 below the closing price per share on the effective date of the Employment Agreement. The stock options are subject to the conditions of the Agreements and vest equally over four years. The difference between the closing price on the effective date and the exercise price is being amortized over four years as compensation expense. This option plan will terminate on the earlier of October 15, 2010 or the date on which all options granted under the plan have been exercised in full. On August 1, 2005, the Company entered into a new employment agreement with Mr. Dea, which due to recent changes in the tax laws required that he exercise, on or before March 15, 2006, 150,000 of the options to purchase shares of the Company's common stock, which vested on November 15, 2005. Otherwise, per this agreement, these options will expire if not exercised.
Chief Executive Officer and President's Plan ("CEO Plan").
Effective May 2002, the stockholders approved the 2002 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan ("2002 Directors Plan") that authorized the granting of options to purchase 220,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The 2002 Directors Plan provides for a three-year vesting schedule while the non-employee director serves on the Company's board. Under this plan, a newly elected non-employee director will be granted 10,000 options to acquire common stock as of the date of election. The 2002 Directors Plan also provides for an annual grant on the date of the Company's annual meeting to each non-employee director of 4,000 options to acquire common stock. The purchase price of the stock under each option shall be the fair market value of the stock at the time such option is granted and no options shall be re-priced. The 2002 Directors Plan requires the non-employee director to exercise the option at the earlier of ten years from the date of the plan or within five years of the date each portion vests. The non-employee director's right to exercise options under the 2002 Directors Plan is subject to continuous service since the grant was made. If the non-employee director dies or becomes disabled (within the meaning of the 2002 Directors Plan) or a change of control occurs, then all of the options granted to the non-employee director shall become 100% exercisable. The 2002 Directors Plan will terminate on the later of May 17, 2012 or the date on which all options granted under the plan have expired or been exercised in full. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, a total of 32,000, 32,000 and 32,000 options, respectively, were granted under this plan.
2002 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan.
Effective May 2002, the stockholders approved the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan ("2002 Plan") that authorized the granting of options to purchase 2,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock. No employee may be granted more than 250,000 options to acquire common stock in any fiscal year. The 2002 Plan requires the employee to exercise the option at the earlier of ten years from the date of the 2002 Plan or within five years of the date each portion vests. The employee's right to exercise options under the 2002 Plan is subject to continuous employment since the grant was made. If the employee dies, becomes disabled (within the meaning of the 2002 Plan) or a change of control occurs, then all of the options granted to the employee shall become 100% exercisable. The 2002 Plan will terminate on the later of May 17, 2012 or the date on which all options granted under the plan have expired or been exercised in full. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, a total of 157,750, 956,841 and 1,129,900 options, respectively, were granted under this plan.
2002 Stock Option Plan.
Effective May 2005, the stockholders approved the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan ("2005 Plan") that authorized the granting of options to purchase 2,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock and the granting of 1,500,000 shares of restricted common stock. No employee may be granted more than 250,000 options to acquire common stock or 150,000 shares of
2005 Stock Option Plan.
 
restricted common stock in any fiscal year. The 2005 Plan requires the employee to exercise the options at the earlier of five years of the date each portion vests or seven years from the date the options are granted. The employee's right to exercise options under the 2005 Plan is subject to continuous employment since the grant was made. If a change of control occurs, then all of the options granted to the employee shall become 100% exercisable and all restricted shares become vested. The 2005 Plan will terminate on the later of May 6, 2015 or the date on which all options granted under the plan have expired or been exercised in full. During 2005, a total of 746,726 options and 382,545 restricted shares were granted under this plan.
Under each of the 1997, 1999, 2002 and 2005 plans (including the non-employee director plans), the board of directors of the Company determines and designates from time to time those employees of the Company to whom options or restricted shares are to be granted. If any option terminates or expires prior to being exercised, the shares relating to such option are released and may be subject to re-issuance pursuant to a new option. The board of directors has the right to, among other things, fix the method by which the price is determined and the terms and conditions for the grant or exercise of any option. The purchase price of the stock under each option shall be the average closing price for the ten days prior to the grant. Under the 1997, 1999, 2002 and 2005 Plans, the board of directors has the authority to set the vesting schedule from 20% per year to 33 1/3% per year. Under each of the plans, the employee must exercise the option within five years of the date each portion vests.
The following table summarizes the number of stock options exercisable and available for grant under the Company's benefit plans at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
 
The following table summarizes the stock option activity under the Company's benefit plans:
 
 
The following table summarizes the weighted average option exercise price information under the Company's benefit plans:
 
NOTE 11 - QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED):
The following summarizes certain quarterly results of operations (000s, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES (UNAUDITED):
The following tables set forth capitalized costs at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and costs incurred for oil and gas producing activities for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 (000s):
Costs.
 
The results of operations for oil and gas producing activities, excluding corporate overhead and interest costs, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows (000s):
Results of Operations.
 
Reserve estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of proved reserves and in the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of economically recoverable reserves and of future net cash flows expected there from prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Results of subsequent drilling, testing and production may cause either upward or downward revisions of previous estimates. Further, the volumes considered to be commercially recoverable fluctuate with changes in commodity prices and operating costs. Any significant revision of reserve estimates could materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Reserve Quantity Information.
 
The following table sets forth information for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 with respect to changes in the Company's proved (i.e. proved developed and undeveloped) reserves, all of which are in the United States.
 
Estimated discounted future net cash flows and changes therein were determined in accordance with SFAS No. 69, "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities". Certain information concerning the assumptions used in computing the valuation of proved reserves and their inherent limitations are discussed below. The Company believes such information is essential for a proper understanding and assessment of the data presented.
Standardized Measures of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows.
Future cash inflows are computed by applying year-end prices of oil and gas relating to the Company's proved reserves to the year-end quantities of those reserves.
The assumptions used to compute estimated future cash inflows do not necessarily reflect the Company's expectations of actual revenues or costs, or their present worth. In addition, variations from the expected production rate also could result directly or indirectly from factors outside of the Company's control, such as unexpected delays in development, changes in prices or regulatory or environmental policies. The reserve valuation further assumes that all reserves will be disposed of by production. However, if reserves are sold in place, additional economic considerations could also affect the amount of cash eventually realized.
Future development and production costs are computed by estimating the expenditures to be incurred in developing and producing the proved oil and gas reserves at the end of the year, based on year-end costs and assuming continuation of existing economic conditions. Also included in this caption are asset retirement obligations.
Future income tax expenses are computed by applying the appropriate year-end statutory tax rates, with consideration of future tax rates already legislated, to the future pre-tax net cash flows relating to the Company's proved oil and gas reserves. Permanent differences in oil and gas related tax credits and allowances are recognized.
An annual discount rate of 10% was used to reflect the timing of the future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves.
 
Information with respect to the Company's estimated discounted future cash flows from its oil and gas properties for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 is as follows (000s):
 
Principal changes in the Company's estimated discounted future net cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are as follows (000s):
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
The company followed the "successful efforts" method of accounting for oil and gas exploration and production activities in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company
Kerr-McGee is an independent exploration and production company that explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil and natural gas, with major areas of operation in the United States and China. Exploration efforts also extend to the North Slope of Alaska and offshore West Africa, Brazil and Trinidad and Tobago. Terms such as "Kerr-McGee," "the company," "we," "our," and similar terms are used interchangeably in these condensed consolidated financial statements to refer to the consolidated group or to one or more of the companies that are part of the consolidated group.
Pending Merger
On June 22, 2006, Kerr-McGee and Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (Anadarko) entered into a definitive agreement which provides for the company's merger with a subsidiary of Anadarko. Under the terms of the agreement, each outstanding share of Kerr-McGee Corporation common stock will be converted into the right to receive $70.50 in cash, without interest, subject to increase at the rate of $.01255 per day for each day after August 10, 2006 that the merger has not been completed, but not exceeding $71.0271 per share. The transaction, which is subject to approval by Kerr-McGee's stockholders and customary terms and conditions, is expected to close during the third quarter of 2006. A special meeting of stockholders to vote on the proposed merger is to be held on August 10, 2006. Following completion of the merger, the company will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Anadarko. Note 9 describes the anticipated effect of the merger on stock-based awards issued under the company's long-term incentive plans and outstanding at the merger date.
Other Recent Developments
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basis of Presentation
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments necessary to a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. Except for adjustments to reflect the stock split, the Distribution and reclassifications discussed below, such adjustments are normal and recurring in nature. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. Although the company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading, these financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the company's latest annual report on Form 10-K.
With the separation of the chemical business, the income statement format has been changed to better reflect the operations of an exploration and production company. Certain 2005 amounts included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2006 presentation. The operating results of and other costs directly associated with Tronox and the company's North Sea oil and gas business that was sold in November 2005 are reported as discontinued operations.
Accounting Policies
- Under Kerr-McGee's long-term incentive plans, the company generally grants nonvested stock, stock options and performance unit awards to nonemployee directors and qualifying employees (the terms of the awards are described in Note 9). Prior to 2006, the company's stock-based employee compensation was accounted for under the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB No. 25), and related Interpretations, as permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS No. 123). Under the intrinsic-value-based accounting model specified in APB No. 25, the company generally did not recognize compensation cost for its stock option awards, as most options granted had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.
Employee Stock-Based Compensation
Effective January 1, 2006, the company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of FAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" (FAS No. 123(R)), using the modified prospective transition method. Under this method, stock-based compensation cost recognized in income from continuing operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 includes:
 
 
 
Results for prior periods have not been retroactively adjusted for the adoption of FAS No. 123(R). The company recognized cumulative effect of adoption as an increase in net income of $2 million ($3 million on a pretax basis). This adjustment reflects a reduction in the performance units liability to its estimated fair value and the effect of the change in the company's accounting policy for forfeitures. FAS No. 123(R) requires that compensation cost be recognized only for awards for which the requisite service is expected to be rendered, using an estimated forfeiture rate. Prior to January 1, 2006, the company accounted for forfeitures as they occurred.
 
The following table presents the increase (decrease) in reported earnings for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2006 as a result of adopting FAS No. 123(R), as well as the change in classification of reported cash flows associated with excess tax benefits, as compared to results that would have been reported had the company continued to apply provisions of APB No. 25:
 
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005 assuming stock-based compensation cost was determined using the fair-value-based method prescribed by FAS No. 123:
 
- In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, (FIN 48). FIN 48 prescribes how a company should recognize, measure, present and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions the company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective in 2007 and will apply to all tax positions upon initial adoption. The company is currently evaluating the possible financial statement effects of adopting this new standard.
New Accounting Pronouncements
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
 
In November 2005, Tronox, a former subsidiary that held Kerr-McGee's chemical business, completed an initial public offering (IPO) of 17.5 million shares of its Class A common stock. Following the IPO, Kerr-McGee continued to own 22.9 million shares of Tronox Class B common stock, representing approximately 57% of the equity interest and 89% of the total voting power of Tronox. On March 8, 2006, Kerr-McGee's Board of Directors approved a pro rata distribution to its stockholders of Tronox Class B common stock the company owned. The Distribution was completed on March 30, 2006 and resulted in holders of Kerr-McGee common stock as of March 20, 2006 receiving a dividend of .20164 of a share of Tronox Class B common stock for each share of Kerr-McGee common stock they owned (on a pre-split basis). Stockholders entitled to fractional shares of Tronox Class B common stock received cash in lieu of fractional shares. As a result of the Distribution, retained earnings and other comprehensive income were reduced by a total of $265 million, which represented the carrying amount of Kerr-McGee's investment in Tronox as of the Distribution date (including the effect of transferring additional assets from Kerr-McGee's qualified retirement plan to the Tronox plan in May 2006 as discussed in Note 10).
Under the terms of the Master Separation Agreement entered into between Kerr-McGee and Tronox in connection with the IPO, Kerr-McGee agreed to reimburse Tronox for 50% of certain qualifying environmental remediation costs incurred and paid by Tronox and its subsidiaries before November 28, 2012, subject to certain limitations and conditions. The seven-year reimbursement obligation is limited to a maximum aggregate reimbursement of $100 million. In connection with the Distribution, Kerr-McGee recognized a fair-value-based liability of $56 million associated with this reimbursement obligation, with the associated charge reflected as a component of loss from discontinued operations.
Historically, certain Tronox employees and retirees participated in stock-based compensation, retirement, and health and life postretirement plans established by Kerr-McGee. As more fully discussed in Note 9, except for vested stock options and performance unit awards, Kerr-McGee's stock-based awards held by Tronox employees were forfeited on the date of the Distribution and replaced with stock-based awards of comparable value issued by Tronox. Additionally, on the Distribution date, Tronox assumed obligations for retirement and health and life postretirement benefits for Tronox's U.S. employees and retirees. In connection with the assumption of the benefit obligations, the company also transferred to Tronox trust assets associated with the transferred benefit obligations. Note 10 provides additional information regarding the effects of the separation on Kerr-McGee's obligations for pension and postretirement health and life benefits.
 
- The following tables summarize the components of income (loss) from discontinued operations for the periods presented:
Discontinued Operations
 
 
 
 
Assets and liabilities of Tronox are segregated as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005.
 
- Assets held for sale at June 30, 2006 and associated liabilities consist of assets and liabilities associated with the company's interests in certain Gulf of Mexico shelf oil and gas properties to be sold to W&T. The company expects to complete the sale in the third quarter.
Assets Held for Sale
 
Components of other comprehensive income (loss) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 are presented in the following table and include amounts associated with discontinued operations. Components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) associated with Tronox were reclassified to retained earnings in connection with the Distribution.
 
Components of accumulated other comprehensive loss at June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, net of applicable tax effects, are as follows:
 
 
The company is exposed to risk from fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. To reduce the impact of these risks on earnings and to increase the predictability of cash flows, the company enters into derivative contracts that are primarily comprised of swaps and collars for a portion of its future oil and gas production and interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value of its fixed-rate debt. Effects of interest rate swaps on the company's financial statements were not material for the periods presented.
 
The following tables summarize the balance sheet presentation of the company's oil and gas commodity derivatives as of June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005:
 
 
 
The following table summarizes components of gain (loss) on commodity derivative instruments associated with continuing operations for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2006 and 2005:
 
 - Beginning March 1, 2006, the company elected to discontinue hedge accounting for its commodity derivatives since a large portion of the company's natural gas derivatives no longer qualified for hedge accounting and to increase clarity in its financial statements. Consequently, from that date forward, the company recognizes mark-to-market gains and losses on all of its oil and gas derivatives in earnings, rather than deferring such amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income. The net mark-to-market loss on outstanding derivatives at June 30, 2006 included in accumulated other comprehensive income will be reported in future earnings through 2007 as the original hedged oil and gas sales occur. The company expects to reclassify $463 million of the net after-tax derivative loss from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings during the next 12 months.
Discontinuation of Hedge Accounting
 
At June 30, 2006, the company had capitalized exploratory drilling costs of approximately $234 million associated with ongoing exploration and/or appraisal activities primarily in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Alaska and Brazil (including $41 million associated with the Gulf of Mexico shelf properties to be sold to W&T). Such capitalized costs may be charged against earnings in a future period if management determines that commercial quantities of hydrocarbons have not been discovered or that future appraisal drilling or development activities are not likely to occur.
 
The following table summarizes changes in total debt for the six months ended June 30, 2006:
 
 
In February 2006, the company redeemed its 7% deep-discount debentures with a face value of $250 million using cash on hand. In connection with the early redemption, a pretax loss of $69 million, representing a write-off of unamortized discount on the debentures, was recognized. Additionally, in January 2006, the company terminated its $1.25 billion secured revolving credit facility, which resulted in a write-off of unamortized debt issue costs of $12 million associated with the facility. The terminated facility was replaced with a $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement. At June 30, 2006, no borrowings were outstanding under the revolving facility, while outstanding letters of credit that reduce borrowing capacity totaled $57 million.
 
The following table presents the changes in the reserve for exit, disposal and restructuring activities during the six months ended June 30, 2006. No significant changes in the status of exit activities occurred during this period.
 
 
 
- The company's 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the Plan) authorizes the issuance of shares of the company's common stock to certain employees and non-employee directors at any time prior to May 10, 2015 in the form of fixed-price stock options, restricted stock or performance awards. At June 30, 2006, approximately 8.5 million shares of Kerr-McGee stock were available to be granted under the Plan. Prior to the approval of the Plan by the company's stockholders, stock-based awards were granted under similar plans, all of which have been terminated. Although no more awards can be issued under those plans, their termination had no effect on awards that had been previously issued and are outstanding.
Overview
 
Stock-based awards granted by the company to its employees and non-employee directors in recent years generally have the following terms:
 
 
 
- Consistent with the provisions of the company's long-term incentive plans, upon completion of the merger, all options to purchase Kerr-McGee common stock, shares of Kerr-McGee restricted stock and performance units outstanding as of the merger date will vest immediately. The merger agreement provides that all outstanding stock options will be cancelled upon completion of the merger and the option holders will receive cash consideration for each option equal to the excess of the per-share merger consideration over the exercise price (subject to applicable tax withholdings). Restrictions on all shares of restricted stock will lapse and the shares will be converted into rights to receive the per-share merger consideration. The company's performance unit awards outstanding as of the merger completion date will settle in cash consistent with the provisions of the long term incentive plans under which they were issued.
Impact of Pending Merger
- As provided in the Employee Benefits Agreement between Kerr-McGee and Tronox, except for vested stock options, vested performance unit awards, and awards held by retirement-eligible employees, Kerr-McGee stock-based awards held by Tronox employees at the date of the Distribution were forfeited and replaced with stock-based awards of comparable value issued by Tronox. Retirement-eligible Tronox employees fully vested in their Kerr-McGee stock options and restricted stock on the Distribution date. In connection with the Distribution, a reversal of pretax expense of $3 million was recognized as a component of loss from discontinued operations, reflecting the net effect of reversing previously recognized compensation cost for Kerr-McGee awards forfeited by Tronox employees and accelerated amortization of compensation cost for awards held by retirement-eligible employees of Tronox.
Effect of Tronox Separation and the Stock Split
In connection with the Distribution, the holders of Kerr-McGee stock options were not entitled to receive the dividend of Tronox Class B common stock. Accordingly, following provisions of the relevant incentive plans, the company adjusted the terms of stock options outstanding as of March 30, 2006 to reduce the exercise price and increase the number of shares subject to the options. On a post-split basis, the number of shares subject to the options increased by 387,310 and the weighted average exercise price decreased by $1.12 per share. This antidilution adjustment preserved the intrinsic value of the options prior to the Tronox share dividend and maintained the ratio of the exercise price of each option to the market price of Kerr-McGee stock as of the Distribution date.
Following provisions of the long-term incentive plans, the terms of stock options outstanding as of June 14, 2006, the date of the two-for-one stock split, were modified, whereby the number of shares subject to each option has doubled and the exercise price decreased 50%. Additionally, holders of Kerr-McGee restricted stock received the stock dividend in connection with the stock split.
The company evaluated the impact of award modifications in connection with the Distribution and the stock split on compensation cost and determined that the modifications did not increase the fair value of the awards. Therefore, there was no effect on compensation cost recognized in the first six months of 2006 and no effect is expected on cost recognition in future periods.
 
- The following summarizes stock-based compensation expense recognized in income from continuing operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005. Refer to Note 1 for information regarding the change in the accounting policy for stock-based awards effective January 1, 2006.
Stock-Based Compensation Cost
 
The following table presents unamortized cost associated with awards outstanding at June 30, 2006 and the weighted average period over which it is expected to be recognized (before considering the associated income tax benefit). Compensation cost ultimately recognized and the remaining recognition period may differ from those presented below due to changes in the estimate of forfeitures, accelerated vesting upon a change in control, or changes in fair value of performance units, which are remeasured each reporting period.
 
- The following table presents a summary of activity for Kerr-McGee options for the six months ended June 30, 2006. The share and per-share information has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the effects of the two-for-one stock split and an antidilution adjustment in connection with the Distribution, which are described below.
Stock Options
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents selected information with respect to options exercised during the first six months of 2006 and 2005:
 
Compensation Cost Measurement
- Prior to January 1, 2006, the company utilized the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of its stock option awards. Starting with its 2006 grant, the company estimates the fair value of its option awards using a lattice model, which management believes results in a more accurate measurement of fair value as compared to the Black-Scholes-Merton formula. Fair value is determined on the date of grant and recognized in earnings (net of expected forfeitures) on a straight-line basis over the employee service period necessary to earn the awards, which is generally the vesting period. However, compensation cost associated with employees whose retention of the options is not contingent on providing future service is recognized immediately upon grant.
Valuation and Cost Attribution Methods
The following table presents the weighted-average fair-value measurement assumptions for options granted during the first six months of 2006 and 2005, followed by additional information regarding the assumptions.
 
 
- In determining the volatility assumption, the company considers both the implied volatility of its traded options and historical volatility of its stock price over the same contractual term as the options.
Expected Volatility
- The dividend yield assumption is based on the company's expectation, as of the grant date, about its dividend policy over the contractual option term. In March 2005, subsequent to the 2005 stock option grant, Kerr-McGee's Board of Directors approved a change in the dividend policy that reduced quarterly dividends from $.225 to $.025 per share. The company's 2006 expected dividend yield reflects that change in the dividend policy.
Expected Dividend Yield
- The expected term represents the period that the company's options are expected to be outstanding. Under the lattice model, expected term is derived from assumptions of employee post-vesting termination and retirement rates, as well as voluntary exercise behavior correlated to various market price scenarios for the company's stock. Assumptions made regarding employee exercise behavior are based on analyses of historical experience for similar awards over a period of ten years, giving consideration to the contractual terms of the options, demographic characteristics of option holders, vesting schedules and expectations of future employee behavior.
Expected Term
- The company bases the risk-free interest rate on the U.S. Treasury securities rates over the contractual term of the options.
Risk-Free Interest Rate
 
- The following table summarizes information about nonvested and restricted stock activity during the first six months of 2006:
Nonvested and Restricted Stock
 
 
 
- Grant-date fair value of nonvested shares is determined by reference to market quotes for the company's common stock. Compensation cost is recognized in earnings (net of expected forfeitures) on a straight-line basis over the employee service period necessary to earn the awards, which is generally the vesting period. However, compensation cost associated with employees whose retention of stock awards is not contingent on providing future service is recognized immediately upon grant.
Valuation and Cost Attribution Method
- The following summarizes activity associated with the company's performance unit awards, as well as the changes in the performance units liability for the six months ended June 30, 2006:
Performance Units
 
 
 
- Fair value estimates as of the end of each reporting period are determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, which utilizes multiple input variables to estimate Kerr-McGee's expected shareholder return as compared to selected peer companies. Inputs into the model include the following for Kerr-McGee and peer companies: total stockholder return from the beginning of the performance cycle through the measurement date, volatility, risk-free interest rates, and correlation of Kerr-McGee's and peer companies' total stockholder return. The inputs are based on historical capital market data. The total fair-value-based obligation associated with awards expected to vest is further adjusted to reflect the extent to which employee services necessary to earn the awards have been rendered. Compensation cost for any given period equals the increase or decrease in the liability for awards outstanding and expected to vest.
Valuation and Cost Attribution Method
 
- Kerr-McGee is a sponsor of noncontributory defined-benefit retirement plans and contributory postretirement plans for health care and life insurance, in each case for the benefit of the company's current and former U.S. employees. Most U.S. employees are covered under the company's retirement plans, and substantially all U.S. employees become eligible for the health and life postretirement benefits if they reach retirement age while working for the company and have 10 years of continuous service. As discussed in Note 2, under the provisions of the Employee Benefits Agreement between Kerr-McGee and Tronox, qualifying U.S. employees and retirees of Tronox participated in Kerr-McGee's benefit plans through the Distribution date.
Overview
- In connection with the Tronox separation, Tronox established employee benefit plans for its U.S. employees and retirees and, upon completion of the Distribution, assumed the benefit obligations associated with such employees. For funded U.S. retirement plans, Kerr-McGee also transferred to Tronox trust assets associated with the benefit obligations assumed. Additionally, foreign subsidiaries of Tronox retained their obligations for retirement plans they have sponsored in Germany and the Netherlands.
Effect of Tronox Separation
For Kerr-McGee's U.S. retirement and postretirement plans, assumption of the benefit obligations by Tronox represented a partial settlement of the plan obligations. In connection with the settlement, the benefit obligations for the plans affected by the Tronox separation were remeasured as of March 30, 2006 and assets and liabilities associated with the benefit obligations assumed by Tronox were deconsolidated from Kerr-McGee's consolidated financial statements.
- The following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of the company's pension and other postretirement plans for the six months ended June 30, 2006:
Benefit Obligations and Funded Status
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the funded status of the company's plans and its reconciliation to amounts recognized in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005:
 
The following table summarizes the accumulated benefit obligations and the projected benefit obligations associated with the company's unfunded U.S. benefit plans:
 
 
Summarized below are the accumulated benefit obligation, the projected benefit obligation, the market value of plan assets and the funded status of the company's U.S. qualified retirement plan:
 
- Following are the expected benefit payments for the second half of 2006, the following four years and, in an aggregate, for the years 2011 through 2015:
Expected Benefit Payments
 
 
- Income from continuing operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 includes the following components of net periodic cost:
Net Periodic Cost
 
 
- The following assumptions were used in estimating the actuarial present value of the benefit obligations for Kerr-McGee's U.S. retirement and postretirement health and life plans:
Assumptions
 
 
 
The following tables set forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005. Substantially all options outstanding at June 30, 2006 and 2005 were in-the-money and, therefore, the dilutive effect of such options is reflected in diluted earnings per share for the periods presented.
 
 
 
The following table presents changes in common stock issued and treasury stock held for the six-month period ended June 30, 2006. Treasury stock balances were unaffected by the stock split.
 
 
- The company has had a stockholders' rights plan since 1986. Rights were distributed as a dividend at the rate of one-half right for each share of the company's common stock (on a post-stock split basis) and continue to trade together with each share of common stock. Generally, the rights become exercisable the earlier of 10 days after a public announcement that a person or group has acquired, or a tender offer has been made for 15% or more of the company's then-outstanding stock. If either of these events occurs, each right would entitle the holder (other than a holder owning more than 15% of the outstanding stock) to buy the number of shares of the company's common stock having a market value two times the exercise price. The exercise price is $215. Generally, the rights may be redeemed at $.01 per right until a person or group has acquired 15% or more of the company's stock.
Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan
 
On June 23, 2006, the company entered into an amendment to render the rights plan inapplicable to (i) the approval, execution or delivery of the merger agreement with Anadarko, (ii) the announcement of the merger, (iii) the consummation of the merger or the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement and (iv) the acquisition of the company's common stock pursuant to the merger or the merger agreement. In addition, the amendment provides for the extension of the expiration date of the rights plan from July 26, 2006 to July 22, 2016; and the termination of the rights plan upon the earliest of the expiration date, redemption, exchange or immediately prior to the effective date of the merger.
 
The following table summarizes the company's contingency reserves for the six months ended June 30, 2006, as well as changes in third-party receivables for environmental cost reimbursements:
 
 
The company provides for costs related to contingencies when a loss is probable and the amount is reasonably estimable. Management believes, after consultation with its internal legal counsel, that the company has reserved adequately for the reasonably estimable costs of environmental matters and other contingencies. However, additions to the reserves may be required as additional information is obtained that enables the company to better estimate its liabilities, including liabilities at sites now under review. It is not possible for the company to reliably estimate the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental and legal matters and other contingencies because, among other reasons:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current and former operations of the company and its affiliates require the management of regulated materials and are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations will obligate the company to clean up various sites at which petroleum and other hydrocarbons and/or other materials have been contained, disposed of, or released. Some of these sites have been designated Superfund sites by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) or state equivalents. Similar environmental laws and regulations and other requirements exist in foreign countries in which the company operates.
Following are discussions regarding certain environmental sites, litigation and other matters with respect to which the company may have loss exposure.
Los Angeles County, California
During 2004, the company began remediation and restoration of an oil and gas field that was operated by an affiliate of the company and its predecessors from about 1936 to 1990 in Los Angeles County, California. The company is obligated to remediate soils contaminated with petroleum hydrocarbons associated with certain early drilling and production pits and sumps and other historic leaks and spills. The remediation and restoration of this oil and gas field is expected to be substantially complete in approximately five years.
As of June 30, 2006, environmental reserves for this project totaled $22 million. Although actual costs may differ from current estimates, the amount of any revisions in remediation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Other Environmental Sites
Kerr-McGee and/or its affiliates are responsible for environmental costs related to certain other sites where exploration and production activities were conducted. As of June 30, 2006, the company and its affiliates had reserves of $20 million associated with these other sites. Although actual costs may differ from current estimates, the amount of any revisions in remediation costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Deepwater Royalty Relief Act
In 1995, the United States Congress passed the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act (DWRRA) to stimulate exploration and production of oil and natural gas by providing relief from the obligation to pay royalty on certain federal leases located in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico. In January 2006, the Department of the Interior (DOI) ordered Kerr-McGee Oil and Gas Corporation (KMOG) to pay oil and gas royalties and accrued interest on certain of KMOG's deepwater Gulf of Mexico production for which KMOG believes royalties are suspended under the DWRRA. DOI issued the Order to Pay based on the assertion that DOI has the discretion to eliminate royalty relief under the DWRRA when oil and gas prices reach certain levels specified by DOI. KMOG believes that DOI does not have the authority to eliminate royalty relief on the subject leases and, accordingly, is contesting the Order to Pay additional royalties. In that regard, on March 17, 2006, KMOG filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana against the DOI for injunctive and declaratory relief with respect to the DOI's claims for additional royalties. KMOG and the DOI have agreed to mediate the dispute voluntarily. If the mediation is not successful, the company will continue to pursue the matter before the Court. The company has recorded reserves for the full amount of the DOI claim, including interest. As of June 30, 2006, reserves for royalties and interest totaled $157 million.
 
Other Litigation
Kerr-McGee and its affiliates are parties to a number of legal and administrative proceedings involving the False Claims Act and other royalty-related claims and disputes with federal, state and private parties, environmental matters and/or other matters pending in various courts or agencies. Some of these proceedings are associated with facilities currently or previously owned, operated or used by the company and/or its predecessors, some of which include claims for personal injuries, property damages, cleanup costs and other environmental matters. These proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company.
 
- In the normal course of business, the company enters into contractual agreements to purchase pipeline capacity and other services. In 2006, the company entered into additional agreements for the purchase of pipeline capacity from 2008 through 2022 totaling $360 million, of which $23 million is expected to be paid in each of 2008 and 2009, $24 million in 2010, and $290 million thereafter.
Purchase Obligations
- In the normal course of business, the company enters into arrangements to participate in the use of various drilling rigs. In 2006, the company entered into additional agreements totaling $117 million, of which $6 million is due in 2006, $36 million is due in 2007, $39 million is due in 2008, $31 million is due in 2009 and $5 million is due in 2010.
Drilling Rig Commitments
- The company has commitments to its officers and certain key employees under agreements that provide for continuation of salary, bonuses and specified benefits for varying terms in the event of a qualifying termination of employment (including termination without cause or upon change in control). As of June 30, 2006, the company's commitment for such benefits approximated $55 million, plus income and excise tax gross-up payments.
Employee Continuity Agreements
In late June 2006, the company initiated a retention program for certain employees with an estimated aggregate cost of up to $53 million. Assuming all participating employees satisfy continuing service and other conditions, the company will make estimated payments under this program of $17 million in 2007 and $18 million in each of 2008 and 2009.
- Under the merger agreement between Kerr-McGee and Anadarko, the company may be required to pay Anadarko $493 million if the merger agreement is terminated under certain conditions and the company enters into an alternative transaction. Under separate agreements, the company is committed to pay $35 million of financial advisory fees upon completion of the merger.
Commitments Associated with the Proposed Merger
 
The company has four operating segments, all of which are in the business of crude oil and natural gas exploration and production (E&P). In the U.S., the company operates offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and onshore in the Rocky Mountain and Southern (Midcontinent) areas. We also have exploration and production operations in China, and exploration activities in Alaska, Brazil and other international locations.
In 2006, the company completed the separation of Tronox and, accordingly, expanded its segment presentation based on the way management currently reviews E&P operating results to make decisions about resource allocation and assess individual segment performance. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit, which represents results of operations before considering marketing activities, certain corporate costs, oil and gas derivatives, interest and debt expense, and other income (expense).
 
The following table sets forth the revenues and operating profit for each of our operating segments, as well as reconciliation to income from continuing operations before income taxes.
 
 
 
 
 
The company's 5.875% Notes due 2006, 6.875% Notes due 2011, 6.95% Notes due 2024 and 7.875% Notes due 2031, for a total principal amount of $2.1 billion, have been fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Kerr-McGee Oil and Gas Onshore LP, a wholly-owed subsidiary of Kerr-McGee Corporation. As a result of these guarantee arrangements, the company is required to present condensed consolidating financial information.
The following tables present condensed consolidating financial information for (a) Kerr-McGee Corporation, the parent company, (b) the guarantor subsidiary, and (c) the nonguarantor subsidiaries. Other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income includes equity interest in income (loss) of subsidiaries for all periods presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1GENERAL
We have prepared the accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements under the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. As provided by such rules and regulations, we have condensed or omitted certain information and notes normally included in annual financial statements prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
The interim consolidated financial statements presented herein should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Reference is also made to our 2005 Form 10-K for definitions of terms used in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2006 and for the three-month and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 included herein are unaudited but reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments (which include only normal recurring adjustments) necessary to fairly state the results for such periods. The results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations expected for the year ended December 31, 2006.
On June 23, 2006, we announced that we had entered into a merger agreement with Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, or Anadarko, whereby it is proposed that we will be merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of Anadarko. Our stockholders will receive $61.00 per common share in cash in the merger. The merger agreement has been approved by each company's Board of Directors and was filed with the SEC on Form 8-K. We have scheduled a special meeting of our stockholders for August 23, 2006 to vote on, adopt the merger agreement and approve the merger. The merger is also subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the receipt of necessary regulatory and governmental approvals. The merger will be completed as soon as practicable following satisfaction of these conditions, which could be as early as the end of August 2006. Should the merger be completed, our common stock will be de-listed with the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and we will file a Form 15 with the SEC to deregister our common stock. Certain of our directors, officers and other stockholders, who collectively hold approximately 17.3 percent of Western's outstanding shares, have entered into agreements to vote in favor of the merger.
Proposed Merger of our Company.
The closing of our proposed merger would be an event of default under our revolving credit facility, which would entitle the lenders to terminate their commitments and demand payment of all outstanding and unpaid amounts there under. Further, our master shelf agreement contains cross default provisions, which would be triggered by the default under the revolving credit facility. Therefore, on or prior to the closing of the merger, the acquirer must renegotiate these agreements or repay all amounts due under them. Also, the closing of our proposed merger is also an event of default under some of our operating leases, which will entitle our counterparties to terminate their commitments and require a return of the related equipment. Therefore, upon the closing of the merger, the acquirer must renegotiate these agreements.
This Form 10-Q includes discussion regarding events that will or may trigger or occur upon completion of the merger. If the merger is not completed these events will not occur. In addition, the timing of the completion of the merger will affect the timing of these events. See also the first paragraph under Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the effect of the proposed merger on certain forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q.
Earnings per share of common stock are computed by dividing net income by the weighted average shares of common stock outstanding. Earnings per share of common stockassuming dilution is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average shares of common stock outstanding as adjusted for potential common shares.
Earnings Per Share of Common Stock.
The following table presents the dividends declared by us on our common stock (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
Common stock options granted are potential common shares. The following is a reconciliation of the weighted average shares of common stock outstanding to the weighted average common shares outstandingassuming dilution.
 
The calculation of fully diluted earnings per share reflects potential common shares, if dilutive.
Included in Accumulated other comprehensive income at June 30, 2006 were unrealized gains of $5.9 million, which is net of $3.4 million of deferred taxes, from the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and unrealized gains of $848,000, which is net of $486,000 of deferred taxes, as a result of cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
The gains currently reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income from the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges will be reclassified to earnings as the hedged gas or NGLs are sold. Based on the prices for our products on June 30, 2006, approximately $5.9 million of gains in Accumulated other comprehensive income will be reclassified to earnings, of which $1.4 million will be reclassified in the remainder of 2006.
In the Gas Gathering, Processing and Treating segment, we recognize revenue for our services at the time the service is performed. We record revenue from our gas and NGL marketing activities, including sales of our equity production, upon transfer of title. In accordance with EITF 03-11, "Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and Not Held for Trading Purposes as Defined in Issue No. 02-3", we record revenue on our physical gas and NGL marketing activities on a gross basis versus sales net of purchases basis because we obtain title to all the gas and NGLs that we buy including third-party purchases, bear the risk of loss and credit exposure on these transactions, and it is our intention upon entering these contracts to take physical delivery of the product. Gas imbalances on our production are accounted for using the sales method. Gas imbalances on our production at June 30, 2006 and 2005 were immaterial. For our marketing activities we utilize mark-to-market accounting for our derivatives. In the Transportation segment, we realize revenue on a monthly basis from firm capacity contracts under which the shipper pays for transport capacity whether or not the capacity is used and from interruptible contracts where a fee is charged based upon volumes received into the pipeline.
Revenue Recognition.
At its September 2005 meeting, the Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, of the FASB approved Issue No. 04-13, "." This Issue addresses the question of when it is appropriate to measure non-monetary purchases and sales of inventory at fair value and record them in cost of sales and revenues and when they should be recorded as an exchange measured at the book value of the item sold. EITF 04-13 requires that two or more exchange transactions involving inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another should be combined for the purposes of evaluating the effect of APB Opinion No. 29, "Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions". This EITF is effective for transactions entered into or modified in the first interim or annual period beginning after March 15, 2006, which for us was the quarter ended June 30, 2006. To the extent transactions are required to be netted, this results in a reduction of revenues and costs by an equal amount, but the netting has no impact on net income or cash flows.
Accounting for Purchases and Sales of Inventory with the Same Counterparty
In order to minimize transportation costs or make product available at a location of our customer's preference, from time to time, we will enter into arrangements to buy product from a party at one location and arrange to sell a like quantity of product to this same party at another location. In accordance with EITF 04-13, these transactions are required to be reported on a sales net of purchases basis. For the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2006, we reduced revenues and product purchases by $31.2 million for transactions which were entered into concurrently and with the intent to buy and sell like quantities with the same counterparty at different locations and at market prices at those locations.
 
Interest paid was $14.6 million and $11.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A total of $16.5 million and $11.0 million was paid in income taxes in the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Asset retirement obligation assets and liabilities of $3.4 million and $7.7 million were recorded for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The asset retirement and associated obligations are non-cash transactions for presentation on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Supplementary Cash Flow Information
.
In March 2006, we acquired certain coal bed methane, or CBM, properties and related gathering assets in the Big George fairway of the Powder River Basin of Wyoming for an adjusted purchase price of $138.6 million. This acquisition was funded with amounts available under our revolving credit facility. The purchase price included the drilling rights on approximately 40,000 gross and net acres and 110 drilled wells. These properties had no production in the six months ended June 30, 2006 as approximately 70 of the drilled wells are currently dewatering and the remaining 40 wells are awaiting hookup.
Property Acquisition.
NOTE 2DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
A net gain was recognized in earnings through Sale of gas and Sale of natural gas liquids during the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 from hedging activities of $12.3 million and $20.8 million, respectively. A net loss was recognized in earnings through Sale of residue gas and Sale of natural gas liquids during the three and six months ended June 30, 2005 from hedging activities of $657,000 and $170,000, respectively.
In the second quarter of 2006, in order to properly align our hedged volumes of natural gas to our forecasted equity production, we discontinued hedge treatment on financial instruments for 30 MMcf per day of natural gas as the anticipated transaction is no longer probable. As a result, a pre-tax gain of $2.8 million was reclassified into earnings from Accumulated other comprehensive income.
NOTE 3ADOPTION OF SFAS 123(R)
On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment", or SFAS 123(R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards (including stock options) made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. SFAS 123(R) supersedes our previous accounting under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", or APB 25, for periods beginning in fiscal 2006. In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, or SAB 107, relating to SFAS 123(R). We considered the guidance of SAB 107 in our adoption of SFAS 123(R).
We adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective transition method, which requires the application of the accounting standard as of January 1, 2006. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, our Consolidated Financial Statements for prior periods are not restated to reflect, and do not include, any impact of SFAS 123(R). We did not modify any outstanding stock options in anticipation of the adoption of SFAS 123(R). The effect of the change in accounting principle resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123(R) was recognized in our financial statements through the elimination of previously recognized deferred compensation costs, with offsetting amounts recorded in the Additional paid-in capital account within Stockholders' equity.
Stock-based compensation expense recognized under SFAS 123(R) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 related to employee stock options, including compensation from our 2006 grants, is as presented in the following table.
 
SFAS 123(R) requires us to estimate the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we accounted for stock-based awards to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB 25 as then allowed under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", or SFAS 123. Under the intrinsic value method, with the exception of the options granted under the Chief Executive Officer and President's Plan and our restricted stock, no stock-based compensation expense had been recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Operations, because the exercise price of our stock options granted to employees and directors equaled the fair market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant.
 
Stock-based compensation expense to be recognized is based on the fair value of those share-based payment awards that are ultimately expected to vest during the period. Stock-based compensation expense recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 includes compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted in 2006 and granted prior to, but not yet vested, as of January 1, 2006. Compensation expense for the awards granted prior to January 1, 2006 is based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123. Compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to December 31, 2005 was based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we continued our method of attributing the value of stock-based compensation using the straight-line single option method. As stock-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it is reduced for estimated forfeitures. SFAS 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. At June 30, 2006, the compensation expense related to non-vested awards to be recognized in future periods totaled $23.0 million. The weighted average period over which this expense is expected to be recognized is 2.1 years; however, in connection with the proposed merger of Western with Anadarko, all outstanding options will fully vest and convert to the right to receive a cash payment from the acquirer at the closing of the transaction.
In accordance with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we continue to use the Black-Scholes option pricing model for the valuation of share-based awards. Our determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding variables, including, but not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. In our estimate of the fair value of the share-based payment awards, we utilize historical volatility of our common stock over 250 weeks. In our opinion, the historical volatility and the Black-Scholes model provide an appropriate measure of the fair value of our employee stock options.
On November 10, 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, issued FASB Staff Position, or FSP, No. 123(R)-3, "Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards." This FSP allows us to take up to one year from the later of our initial adoption of SFAS 123(R) or the effective date of the FSP to evaluate the available transition alternative related to the accounting for the tax effects of share-based payment awards that are partially or fully-vested as of the adoption date. We have not yet elected which transition method we will utilize.
NOTE 4SHARE BASED COMPENSATION
In the first six months of 2006, we granted our employees and directors options to purchase approximately 733,000 shares of our common stock at the market (as defined in the plans) based on the average closing price for the ten days prior to grant, and approximately 297,000 shares of restricted common stock. In the first six months of 2005, we granted options to purchase 916,000 shares of our common stock at the market based on the average closing price for the ten days prior to grant and approximately 362,000 shares of restricted common stock to our employees and directors. In all cases, the grant date was the date on which the grants were approved by our board of directors, or the date on which an employee commenced employment. We realize an income tax benefit from the exercise of non-qualified stock options related to the amount by which the market price at the date of exercise exceeds the option price and on disqualifying dispositions of qualified stock options. For the six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, we recognized a tax benefit from our stock options of $3.9 million and $900,000, respectively.
The following is a summary of the options granted to purchase our common stock and the weighted average fair value per share of the options granted during the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
 
 
During the six months ended June 30, 2006, the values for the options granted were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
 
The following table summarizes the number of stock options exercisable and available for grant under our benefit plans at June 30, 2006:
 
The following table summarizes the stock option activity related to options outstanding under our benefit plans during the six months ended June 30, 2006:
 
The following table summarizes the weighted average option exercise price information under our benefit plans during the six months ended June 30, 2006:
 
The total aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised in the first six months of 2006 was approximately $15.1 million. The total aggregate intrinsic value of exercisable options at June 30, 2006 was approximately $68.8 million and the total aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding options at June 30, 2006 was approximately $124.2 million.
The following table summarizes the status of the shares of outstanding restricted stock as of June 30, 2006 and changes during the six months ended June 30, 2006:
 
 
As discussed in Note 3 above, prior to January 1, 2006, we were not required to record compensation expense for share-based payment awards. If we had recorded compensation expense in the second quarter and first six months of 2005 for grants under our stock-based compensation plans consistent with SFAS 123 (R), our Net income, Earnings per share of common stock and Earnings per share of common stockassuming dilution would approximate the pro forma amounts below (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
NOTE 5SEGMENT REPORTING
We operate in four principal business segments, as follows: Gathering, Processing and Treating; Exploration and Production; Marketing; and Transportation. Management separately monitors these segments for performance against our internal forecast, and these segments are consistent with our internal financial reporting package. These segments have been identified based upon the differing products and services, regulatory environment and the expertise required for these operations.
In the Gathering, Processing and Treating segment, which collectively with the Marketing and Transportation segments are referred to as the midstream operations, we connect producers' wells (including those of our Exploration and Production segment) to our gathering systems for delivery of natural gas to our processing or treating plants, process the natural gas to extract NGLs and treat the natural gas in order to meet pipeline specifications. In some areas, where no processing is required, we gather and compress producers' gas and deliver it to pipelines for further delivery to market. Except for volumes taken in kind by our producers, the Marketing segment sells the gas and NGLs extracted at most of our facilities. In this segment, we recognize revenue for our services at the time the service is performed.
Gathering, Processing and Treating.
Substantially all gas flowing through our gathering, processing and treating facilities is supplied under three types of contracts providing for the purchase, gathering, treating or processing of natural gas for periods ranging from one month to 20 years or in some cases for the life of the oil and gas lease. Approximately 64% of our plant facilities' gross margin, or revenues at the plant less product purchases, or 31% of our plant facilities' throughput volume for the month of June 2006, was under percentage-of-proceeds agreements where we are typically responsible for the marketing of the gas and NGLs. Under these agreements, we pay producers a specified percentage of the net proceeds received from the sale of the gas and the NGLs. Revenue is recognized under these contracts when the gas or NGLs are sold and the related product purchases are recorded as a percentage of the sale of the product.
Approximately 25% of our plant facilities' gross margin, or 54% of our plant facilities' throughput volume, for the month of June 2006 was under contracts that are primarily fee-based from which we receive a set fee for each Mcf of gas gathered and/or processed. This type of contract provides us with a steady revenue stream that is not dependent on commodity prices, except to the extent that low prices may cause a producer to delay drilling or shut in production. Revenue is recognized under these contracts when the related services are rendered.
 
Approximately 11% of our plant facilities' gross margin, or 15% of our plant facilities' throughput volume, for the month of June 2006 was under contracts with keepwhole arrangements or wellhead purchase contracts. Under the keepwhole contracts, we retain the NGLs recovered by the processing facility and keep the producers whole by returning to the producers at the tailgate of the plant an amount of gas equal on a Btu basis to the natural gas received at the plant inlet. The keepwhole component of the contracts permits us to benefit when the value of the NGLs is greater as a liquid than as a portion of the residue gas stream. However, we are adversely affected when the value of the NGLs is lower as a liquid than as a portion of the residue gas stream. Revenue is recognized under these contracts when the product is sold.
The activities of the Exploration and Production segment, also referred to as upstream operations, primarily consist of the exploration and development of gas properties in the Rocky Mountain area, including those where our gathering and/or processing facilities are located. The Marketing segment sells the majority of the production from these properties and remits to the Exploration and Production segment all of the proceeds from the sales of gas and a proportional share of transportation charges. Also included in this segment are our Canadian exploration and development operations, which are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiary Western Gas Resources Canada Company and which are immaterial for separate presentation.
Exploration and Production.
Exploratory lease rentals and geological and geophysical costs are charged to expense as incurred. Exploratory drilling costs are capitalized when incurred pending the determination of whether a well has found proved reserves. The determination of whether a well has found proved reserves is based on a process that relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, and engineering data. If an exploratory well is determined to be unsuccessful, the capitalized drilling costs will be charged to expense in the period the determination is made. If an exploratory well requires a major capital expenditure before production can begin, the cost of drilling the exploratory well will continue to be carried as an asset pending determination of whether proved reserves have been found only as long as: i) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify its completion as a producing well if the required capital expenditure is made, and ii) drilling of additional exploratory wells is under way or firmly planned for the near future. If the drilling of additional exploratory wells in the area is not under way or firmly planned, or if the well has not found a commercially producible quantity of reserves, the exploratory well is assumed to be impaired, and its costs are charged to expense.
The following table reflects the net changes in capitalized exploratory well costs during the six months ended June 30, 2006 (dollars in thousands).
 
Period end capitalized exploratory well costs (000s) and number of gross wells at June 30, 2006 are as follows:
 
Substantially all of our exploratory wells that have been capitalized for a period greater than one year are located in the Powder River Basin. In this basin, we drill wells into various coal seams. After these wells are completed, lease-operating costs are incurred. In order to produce gas from the coal seams, a period of dewatering lasting from a few to thirty-six months, or in some cases longer, is required prior to obtaining sufficient gas production to justify capital expenditures for compression and gathering, and to classify the reserves as proved. In order to accelerate the dewatering time, we drill additional exploratory wells in these areas.
 
Our Marketing segment markets gas and NGLs extracted at our gathering, processing and treating facilities and produced from our Exploration and Production segment and buys and sells gas and NGLs in the United States and Canada from and to a variety of customers. In this segment, revenues for sales of product are recognized at the time the gas or NGLs are delivered to the customer and title passes. Revenues in this segment are sensitive to changes in the market prices of the underlying commodities. The marketing of products purchased from third-parties typically results in low operating margins relative to the sales price. We sell our products under agreements with varying terms and conditions in order to match seasonal and other changes in demand. Also included in this segment are our Canadian marketing operations, which are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiary WGR Canada, Inc. and which are immaterial for separate presentation.
Marketing.
The Transportation segment reflects the operations of our MIGC, Inc. and MGTC, Inc. pipelines. The revenue presented in this segment is derived from transportation of gas for our Marketing segment and third parties. In this segment, we realize revenue on a monthly basis from firm capacity contracts under which the shipper pays for transport capacity whether or not the capacity is used and from interruptible contracts where a fee is charged based upon volumes received into the pipeline. The Transportation segment's capacity contracts range in duration from one month to five years.
Transportation.
The following tables set forth our segment information as of and for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in thousands). Due to our integrated operations, the use of allocations in the determination of business segment information is necessary. Inter-segment revenues are valued at prices comparable to those of unaffiliated customers.
Segment Information.
Quarter Ended June 30, 2006:
 
 
Quarter ended June 30, 2005
 
Six months ended June 30, 2006
 
 
Six months ended June 30, 2005
 
NOTE 6LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
On March 31, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a complaint against a group of ten defendants, including our subsidiary Lance Oil & Gas Company, Inc. The plaintiffs claim that they hold a five percent net profits interest which they allege was created in 1954 and burdened certain oil and gas leases in the original federal Pinedale Unit in the Pinedale Anticline. The relief sought by the plaintiffs includes a declaration that they hold a valid, continuing net profits interest applicable to certain identified leases, enforcement of the net profits interest, compensatory damages, an accounting of the status of the net profits interest, and interest and penalties under the Wyoming Royalty Payment Act.
Doyle and Margaret M. Hartman, et al. v. Questar Exploration and Production Company et al. In the District Court of Sublette County, Wyoming, Civil Action No. 2006-6843.
We, along with over 300 other natural gas companies, are defendants in litigation filed on September 30, 1997, in 72 separate actions filed by Mr. Grynberg on behalf of the federal government. The allegations made by Mr. Grynberg are that established gas measurement and royalty calculation practices improperly deprived the federal government of appropriate natural gas royalties and violate 31U.S.C. 3729(a)(7) of the False Claims Act. The cases have been consolidated to the United States District Court for the District of Wyoming. Discovery on the jurisdictional issues is being completed to determine if this matter qualifies as a qui tam, or class, action. The defendants' joint Motion to Dismiss was argued before a special master on March 17 and 18, 2005 and, as a result thereof, the special master has recommended to the court that claims against several of the defendants, including Western, be dismissed. The recommendation is pending before the court.
United States of America and ex rel. Jack J. Grynberg v. Western Gas Resources, Inc., et al., United States District Court, District of Colorado, Civil Action No. 97-D-1427.
 
We are a defendant in litigation filed on September 23, 1999, along with numerous other natural gas companies, in which Mr. Price is claiming an under measurement of gas and Btu volumes throughout the country. We, along with other natural gas companies, filed a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim. The court denied these motions to dismiss. The court denied plaintiff's motion for certification as a class and, in the third quarter of 2003, the plaintiff amended and refiled for certification as a class. On May 12, 2003, Mr. Price filed a further claim, , relating to certain matters previously removed from the foregoing action.
Price, et al. v. Gas Pipelines, Western Gas Resources, Inc., et al., District Court, Stevens County, Kansas, Case No. 99-C-30.
Will Price et al v. Western Gas Resources, Inc. et al., District Court, Stevens County, Kansas, Case No. 03C23
On October 17, 2005, the plaintiff, in its capacity as the liquidating trustee of the successor in interest to Farmland Industries, Inc., filed an amended complaint, joining us and other defendants to this action, originally filed in the District Court of Wyandotte County, Kansas. The defendants removed the case to the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas, following which the Judicial Panel on Multi District Litigation entered a transfer order centralizing the action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada for coordinated and consolidated pretrial proceedings. On April 21, 2006, the plaintiff's motion to remand to Kansas state court was denied. The complaint claims that the defendants violated the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act by reporting allegedly "misleading or knowingly inaccurate reports concerning trade information" to trade publications that compile and publish indices of natural gas prices for natural gas trading hubs throughout the United States. The complaint asserts that these alleged activities had the effect of increasing prices charged by the defendants for natural gas and preventing full and free competition. The plaintiff seeks to recover damages in the amount of the full consideration of its purchases of natural gas during the time period from January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2001, together with its costs of litigation including attorney's fees.
In re: Western States Wholesale Natural Gas Antitrust Litigation, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, in its Capacity as Trustee of FLI Liquidating Trust v. The Williams Companies, Inc., et al., United States District Court, District of Nevada, MDL 1566 CV-S-03-1431-PMP.
On November 4, 2005, the plaintiffs, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated, filed an amended Petition for Damages, joining us and other defendants to this action. The Petition claims that the defendants violated the Kansas Restraint of Trade Act by reporting allegedly "misleading or knowingly inaccurate reports concerning trade information" to trade publications that compile and publish indices of natural gas prices for natural gas trading hubs throughout the United States. The complaint asserts that the allegedly anticompetitive effect of the defendant's actions was to artificially inflate the prices paid by the plaintiffs for natural gas. The plaintiffs are bringing the action as a class action on behalf of all persons and entities in Kansas who made direct purchases of natural gas, for their own use and or consumption, during the time period from January 1, 2000 through October 31, 2002. The plaintiffs are seeking judgment for the full consideration of their purchases of natural gas purchased during such time period, together with costs of litigation including attorney's fees.
Learjet, Inc., Cross Oil Refining & Marketing, Inc. Topeka Unified School District 501, on Behalf of Themselves and All Other Similarly Situated Direct Purchasers of Natural Gas in the State of Kansas v. Oneok, Inc. et al, In the District Court of Wyandotte County, Kansas, Civil Action No. 05-CV-1500.
On January 26, 2006, we received a Notice of Violation issued by the State of Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, Water Quality Division, for the un-permitted discharge of coal bed methane produced water at our Spotted Horse Facility in Campbell County. We have undertaken remedial steps to address the items contained in the Notice of Violation and, in May 2006, we paid a settlement in the amount of $100,000.
In the Matter of the Notice of Violation, Docket Number 3852-06, Issued to Lance Oil & Gas Company, Inc., Department of Environmental Quality, Water Quality Division, State of Wyoming.
On March 6, 2006, we received a Notice of Violation pertaining to operations at our San Juan River Gas Plant located west of Farmington, New Mexico, containing two alleged violations. On April 4, 2006, we met with the Environment Department to discuss the notices and any potential monetary penalties. This matter is still pending.
In the Matter of the Notice of Violation, WES-1252-0501, Environment Department, Air Quality Bureau, State of New Mexico.
In addition to the above claims, we are involved in various other litigation and administrative proceedings arising in the normal course of business. While the outcome of claims in litigation is inherently uncertain, and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome, we intend to vigorously contest the allegations in the previously described matters. In the opinion of our management, any liabilities that may result from these claims will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
 
NOTE 7RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
We continually monitor and revise our accounting policies as new rules are issued. At this time, there are several new accounting pronouncements that have recently been issued, but not yet adopted, which will have an impact on our accounting when they become effective.
In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, "". This statement resolves issues addressed in SFAS Implementation Issue D1, "." This statement is effective in the annual period commencing after September 15, 2006. We do not believe that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on our results of operation, financial position or cash flows.
SFAS No. 155.
Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, an Amendment of SFAS No. 133 and No. 140
Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets
At its May 2006 meeting, the Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, of the FASB approved Issue No. 06-3, The scope of this issue includes any tax assessed by a governmental authority that is imposed on a revenue producing transaction between a seller and a customer. This EITF is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2006 and requires that the presentation of taxes on either a gross or net basis is an accounting policy decision that should be disclosed in the footnotes along with the amount of such taxes. The adoption of this EITF will not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
EITF No. 06-3.
"How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross versus Net Presentation)."
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109." This Interpretation provides guidance for recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions, as defined in SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FIN No. 48 prescribes a threshold condition that a tax position must meet for any of the benefit of the uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements. Guidance is also provided regarding derecognition, classification and disclosure of these uncertain tax positions. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We do not expect that this Interpretation will have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
FIN No. 48.
 

EXHIBIT 99.6
The following unaudited pro forma financial statements combine the historical consolidated balance sheets and statements of income of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation ("Anadarko" or "the Company") and Kerr-McGee Corporation ("KMG"), giving effect to the acquisition using the purchase method of accounting. These unaudited pro forma financial statements also include the effects of the subsequent acquisition of Western Gas Resources, Inc. ("WGR") using the purchase method of accounting. The Company's Canadian operations have been classified as held for sale and the related results of discontinued operations are excluded from Anadarko's historical statements of income.
These unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, of Anadarko, KMG and WGR, which are included in the annual reports that the companies have filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and as exhibits in this Form 8-K/A.
The unaudited pro forma combined statements of income assume the acquisitions occurred on January 1, 2005. The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet gives effect to the acquisitions as if they had occurred on June 30, 2006.
The unaudited pro forma financial statements are presented for illustration purposes only, in accordance with the assumptions set forth below, and are not necessarily indicative of the operating results or financial position that would have occurred had the acquisitions been completed at the assumed dates. Nor is it necessarily indicative of future operating results or the financial position of the combined enterprise. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect any adjustments to conform accounting practices, other than those mentioned in the notes thereto, or to reflect any cost savings or other synergies anticipated as a result of the acquisitions, or any future merger related expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's policy is that oil and gas investments in unproved properties and major development projects, on which DD&A expense is not currently recorded and on which exploration or development activities are in progress, qualify for capitalization of interest. The Company is continuing to evaluate its exploration and development plans with respect to the acreage acquired in the acquisitions. Pending finalization of those plans, it has been assumed for purposes of these pro forma financial statements that all unevaluated acreage acquired qualifies for capitalization of interest. Accordingly, interest of $639 million and $320 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively, has been capitalized on the carrying costs of unevaluated properties for the periods presented. The ultimate amount to be capitalized will be impacted by amounts actually recorded to unevaluated properties and finalization of our exploration and development plans for those properties.
The amount of incremental interest expense was calculated based on the average variable interest rate in effect on the Company's 364-day committed acquisition facility on the funding date, which was approximately 5.7%. A change in the interest rate of 0.125% would impact pro forma operating income by approximately $15 million on an annual basis.
KMG's historical interest expense includes charges for $42 million and $81 million related to early debt retirement or modification for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively. KMG's historical other income for the year ended December 31, 2005, includes a $120 million gain on sale of an equity investment.
 
 
 
 
 
Following is a calculation and allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their relative fair values.
Purchase Price Allocation
 
The above purchase price has been allocated based on a preliminary assessment of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from KMG and WGR. The preliminary assessment of fair value resulted in $6.6 billion of goodwill, which will be subject to periodic impairment testing, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." The purchase price allocation is tentative and does not reflect final appraisals of assets acquired or final evaluation of all liabilities assumed as of the August 10, 2006 and August 23, 2006 acquisition dates for KMG and WGR, respectively.
The preliminary assessment of the fair values of oil and gas properties and certain plant and gathering facilities acquired were based on projections of expected future net cash flows, discounted to present value. KMG's and WGR's other assets and liabilities were valued at their historical book values. The historical liabilities acquired include certain amounts associated with contingencies, such as legal, environmental and guarantees, which were estimated by the management of KMG and WGR. Long-term debt assumed was valued at fair value based on the prices of KMG's publicly traded debt. These and other preliminary estimates will change as additional information becomes available and is assessed by Anadarko.
 
Summary of Conforming Adjustments
Kerr-McGee Corporation
 
 
Western Gas Resources
 
 


