FILE:APC/APC-8K-20061211164920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02(b)-(c), (e) Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(c) On December 4, 2006, the Board of Directors of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") elected Karl F. Kurz as Chief Operating Officer of the Company. Mr. Kurz, 45, previously served as Senior Vice President, North America Operations, Midstream & Marketing since August 2006. Prior to that time, he served as Senior Vice President, Marketing and General Manager, U.S. Onshore from 2005 to August 2006. From 2003 to 2005 he served as Vice President, Marketing and was Manager, Energy Marketing from 2001 to 2003. He joined Anadarko's marketing department in 2000. Prior to joining the Company, he worked for Vastar Resources in the marketing department from 1995 to 2000.
(b) In connection with the Company's restructuring resulting from its recent acquisitions of Kerr-McGee Corporation and Western Gas Resources, Inc., Mark L. Pease, Senior Vice President, E&P Technology & Services, will be leaving the Company effective December 31, 2006.
(e) In connection with Mr. Pease's departure from the Company, and in recognition of his valuable contributions to the Company during his 27 years of service at Anadarko, on December 11, 2006 the Company's Board of Directors approved a severance package for Mr. Pease under the Company's Officer Severance Plan that includes the following payments and benefits:
Payment of the above severance amount is conditioned upon Mr. Pease's execution of a Termination Agreement and Release of All Claims.
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On December 11, 2006, the Company issued a press release providing an overview of the Company's operating and financial expectations for 2007, which will be reviewed at its investor conference to be held on December 12. The investor conference presentations, including both audio and slides, will be available online at beginning at 7:00 a.m. (Central time) on December 12, and will be available after the conference until December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
www.anadarko.com
The information in this item (including Exhibit 99.1) is being furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
     99.1 Anadarko Press Release, dated December 11, 2006.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized officer.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
, Dec. 11, 2006  Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC) at its investor conference tomorrow will provide an overview of the company's operating and financial expectations, including detailed reviews of the core properties that are expected to help the company deliver a five-year compound annual production growth rate of between 5 percent and 9 percent, pro forma for anticipated divestitures that are expected to close in 2007.
HOUSTON
     In August, Anadarko acquired Kerr-McGee Corporation and Western Gas Resources, Inc. for a total of $22.5 billion and immediately initiated efforts to transform the combined portfolio and reduce debt by $15 billion, primarily through asset divestitures. To date, Anadarko has announced agreements to sell assets for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $6.5 billion, or about $5.5 billion on an after-tax basis. At the meeting tomorrow, Anadarko will outline the major remaining assets targeted for divestiture by year-end 2007, with expected incremental after-tax proceeds totaling between $5 billion and $9 billion.
     "Adjusting for the larger than originally planned divestitures, the pro forma proved reserves of the new Anadarko will be about 2.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent, only slightly bigger than at the beginning of 2006; however, based on production volumes, the company will be about 10 percent larger," Anadarko Chairman, President and CEO Jim Hackett said. "The Kerr-McGee and Western Gas acquisitions were not intended to make us a bigger company; the goal was to create a better, more consistent growth model. This improved growth and efficiency model should allow us to create more value for our shareholders, and to deliver that value more consistently."
     Hackett said Anadarko's post-divestiture portfolio is expected to include unbooked net risked captured resource potential estimated at more than 7 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BOE), nearly 5 billion BOE higher than at the beginning of the year.
     "Those identified, yet unbooked, resources have significantly improved the risk profile of our asset portfolio, which is expected to deliver 5 percent to 9 percent average annual volume growth without reliance on additional exploration success over at least the next five years," Hackett said. "The new portfolio is better balanced, with lower-risk U.S. onshore resource plays helping smooth
 
2
out the volatility inherent in our deepwater Gulf of Mexico and international programs. It is also better focused, with premier, concentrated positions in world-class producing basins."
          In addition to Hackett's presentation, Anadarko Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Al Walker will provide a financial update and guidance. Among the more noteworthy items to be discussed are:
          Anadarko's operations management will present sessions detailing the company's U.S. onshore, deepwater Gulf of Mexico and international programs:
 
3
          "The acquisitions and subsequent portfolio restructuring have significantly enhanced each of the key elements we need in order to deliver investor value," Hackett said, listing them as:
          The company believes it has secured and is leveraging the critical services and infrastructure needed to execute the capital programs and to deliver competitive advantages, with the prime examples being: the largest contracted deepwater drilling rig fleet in the industry; the largest hub-and-spoke infrastructure portfolio of any deepwater Gulf of Mexico operator; and onshore midstream assets that will allow the company to accelerate development of its newly expanded resource plays. Also, the company feels it has put a clear plan in place to restore the balance sheet during 2007 to a healthy level that will allow financial execution of its ongoing programs.
Anadarko investor conference presentations, including both audio and slides, will be available on-line at , beginning at 7:30 a.m. Central tomorrow, and will be available after the conference until December 31, 2006.
Investor Conference Available On-line
www.anadarko.com
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the world's health and welfare. As of year-end 2005, the company had 2.4 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies. In August 2006, Anadarko acquired Kerr-McGee Corporation and Western Gas Resources, Inc. in separate transactions.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Anadarko believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this news release. Anadarko cannot guarantee that it will successfully integrate the recently acquired businesses or complete its pending or proposed asset sales. See "Risk Factors" in the company's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other public filings, press releases and discussions with company management. Anadarko undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
4
Anadarko Contacts
Teresa Wong, , 832.636.1203 John Christiansen, , 832.636.8736 Susan Richardson, , 832.636.1537 John Colglazier, , 832.636.2306 Stewart Lawrence, , 832.636.3326
Media:
teresa.wong@anadarko.com
john.christiansen@anadarko.com
susan.richardson@anadarko.com
Investors:
john.colglazier@anadarko.com
stewart.lawrence@anadarko.com


