FILE:APC/APC-8K-20060504121858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(b)-(c) Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On April 28, 2006, the Board of Directors of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") elected Bruce W. Busmire as the new Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, replacing Diane L. Dickey, who will retire from the Company on August 31, 2006. Mr. Busmire's election was effective on May 1, 2006. In connection with the election of Mr. Busmire, effective May 1, 2006 Diane L. Dickey will no longer serve as the Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of the Company but will remain as a Vice President of the Company through August 31, 2006 in order to ensure an effective transition of the office and duties of the Chief Accounting Officer.
Mr. Busmire, 48, was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Controller of Noble Corporation, a publicly-traded oil and gas services provider, from September 2005 to March 2006. Mr. Busmire served as Managing Director of Pickering Energy Partners, Inc., a privately-held energy research firm, from 2004 to 2005. Prior to 2004, Mr. Busmire served as Vice President of Investor Relations at Ocean Energy, Inc., then a publicly-traded independent oil and gas company, beginning in 2000. Mr. Busmire served as Controller of Altura Energy from 1997 to 2000. Prior to 1997, Mr. Busmire worked with Amoco, where he served in a number of accounting and finance positions.
. The restricted stock will vest in four equal installments on the anniversary date of the grant. The options will vest in two equal installments on the second and fourth anniversaries of the grant. Mr. Busmire will also be eligible to receive annual grants for 2006 under the Company's 1999 Stock Incentive Plan. Finally, Mr. Busmire will be eligible to receive the other benefits typically afforded other executive officers of the Company.
Mr. Busmire will receive an annual salary of $275,000 and will be eligible for a 2006 target bonus of 60% of his base salary under the Company's Annual Incentive Plan. In addition, Mr. Busmire was granted on May 1, 2006 a total of 6,000 shares of restricted stock and an option to purchase 9,500 shares of the Company's common stock under the Company's
1999 Stock Incentive Plan
A full summary of the terms of Mr. Busmire's employment with the Company is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
(a) As reported in Item 5.02 of this Form 8-K, on April 28, 2006, Bruce W. Busmire was elected Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer by the Company's Board of Directors, effective May 1, 2006. The material terms of Mr. Busmire's employment with the Company are summarized in Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
10.1  Summary of terms of employment for Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
                    99.1  Anadarko Press Release, dated May 1, 2006.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized officer.
                                                                                                     (Registrant)
                                                                      ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORPORATION

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
* Form of agreement previously filed with Securities and Exchange Commission.

xhibit 99.1
E
HOUSTON, May 1, 2006 - Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE:APC) announced today that Diane Dickey, currently Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, will retire from Anadarko in August and that Bruce W. Busmire has been named Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, effective immediately. Dickey will remain with the company as a Vice President for approximately four months to assist in Busmire's transition.
"Diane has given Anadarko 28 years of dedicated service and we are grateful for the professionalism and work ethic she has brought to our accounting organization," said Al Walker, Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. "Her expertise was critical to Anadarko's execution, especially in recent years as companies across the United States made changes to comply with new regulations under the Sarbanes-Oxley rules."
Dickey joined Anadarko in 1978, became Assistant Controller in 1995 and was named Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in 2002.
Busmire brings 27 years of experience in both accounting and investor relations in the exploration and production business, coupled with executive leadership roles, to his new duties at Anadarko. The majority of his early career was spent at Amoco Corporation, where he held a variety of accounting and managerial jobs of increasing responsibility over his 17-plus years. From there, Busmire served as Controller at Altura Energy and in 2000 assumed the role of Vice President - Investor Relations at Ocean Energy. In 2004, he participated in the start-up of Pickering Energy Partners and in 2005 was named Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Controller of Noble Corporation.
"We are pleased to have Bruce join the Anadarko organization as our new Chief Accounting Officer," said Walker. "His experience in nearly every facet of accounting within the energy industry combined with his executive leadership roles will serve Anadarko well as we continue to execute on our strategy and deliver value to our shareholders." In his new capacity Busmire will report to Walker.
Busmire holds a BBA in accounting from Lamar University and a MBA from Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University. He is also a Certified Public Accountant.
In addition, Allyn R. Skelton, currently Assistant Controller, has been promoted to Controller, effective immediately and will be reporting to Busmire. Skelton joined Anadarko in 2002 from Howell Corporation which was acquired by Anadarko. He has over 30 years of experience in the petroleum industry where he has held several positions in the accounting and financial field. He originally joined Howell in 1983 and in 1989 was named Chief Financial Officer. Skelton holds a BBA from Baylor University and is also a Certified Public Accountant.
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the world's health and welfare. As of year-end 2005, the company had 2.45 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies. Anadarko's operational focus in North America extends from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, up through the western U.S. and Canadian regions and onto the North Slope of Alaska. Anadarko's international activities are focused on major positions in North Africa, the Middle East and Indonesia, as well as exploration or production operations in several other countries. For more information about how Anadarko is bringing excellence to the surface, please visit: www.anadarko.com.
 
Media Contacts:
Teresa Wong, teresa_wong@anadarko.com, (832) 636-1203
Stewart Lawrence, stewart_lawrence@anadarko.com (832) 636-3326 John Colglazier, john_colglazier@anadarko.com (832) 636-2306
Investor Contacts:


