FILE:APC/APC-8K-20060626155256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On June 22, 2006, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Company, Kerr-McGee Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("KMG") and APC Acquisition Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("APC/KMG Merger Sub ") (the "KMG Merger Agreement"), pursuant to which APC/KMG Merger Sub will be merged with and into KMG, with KMG becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the "KMG Merger"). Under the terms of the KMG Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of common stock of KMG will be converted into the right to receive $70.50, without interest. The price per share will increase at a daily rate of $.01255 for each day after August 10, 2006 that the merger does not close, provided that the total price per share will not exceed $71.0271 per share. The KMG Merger Agreement has been adopted by the Board of Directors of both the Company and KMG. In addition, KMG's Board of Directors recommended that its stockholders approve the merger. The KMG Merger Agreement is conditioned upon, among other things: (i) approval by KMG's stockholders, (ii) clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended ("HSR Act") and, if required, the Competition Act (Canada) ("Competition Act"), and (iii) other customary closing conditions.
     On June 22, 2006, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Company, Western Gas Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("WGR") and APC Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("APC/WGR Merger Sub"), pursuant to which APC/WGR Merger Sub will be merged with and into WGR, with WGR becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the "WGR Merger"). Under the terms of the WGR Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of common stock of WGR will be converted into the right to receive $61.00 in cash, without interest. The WGR Merger Agreement has been adopted by the Board of Directors of both the Company and WGR. In addition, WGR's Board of Directors recommended that its stockholders approve the merger. The WGR Merger Agreement is conditioned upon, among other things: (i) approval by WGR's stockholders, (ii) clearance under the HSR Act and the Competition Act, (iii) approval by the Public Service Commission of Wyoming, and (iv) other customary closing conditions.
     Concurrent with the execution of the WGR Merger Agreement, each of Brion G. Wise, Dean Phillips, Roswitha Stonehocker, Walter L. Stonehocker, Mabeth Sanderson, individually and as trustee of the Cedar Assets Trust, Bill M. Sanderson, John F. Chandler, Peter A. Dea and James A. Senty entered into a voting agreement ("Voting Agreement") with the Company, pursuant to which each has agreed to vote their shares of WGR common stock in favor of the WGR Merger and have granted the Company a proxy to vote their shares at any WGR stockholder meeting convened to consider the WGR Merger. The shares of WGR common stock beneficially owned by those individuals executing a Voting Agreement represent approximately 17.3% of the total issued and outstanding shares of WGR common stock as of the close of business on June 22, 2006.
     Each of the above merger agreements contains representations and warranties that the parties have made to each other as of specific dates. Except for their status as contractual documents that establish and govern the legal relations among the parties to the respective merger agreements described therein, the merger agreements are not intended to be a source of factual, business or operational information about any of the parties thereto. The representations and warranties contained in each merger agreement were made only for purposes of those agreements and as of specific dates, were solely for the benefit of the parties to such merger agreements, and may be subject to limitations agreed between those parties, including being qualified by disclosures between those parties. The representations and warranties in each merger agreement may have been made to allocate risks among the parties thereto, including where the parties do not have complete knowledge of all facts, instead of establishing matters as facts. Furthermore, those representations and warranties may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to the contracting parties that differ from those applicable to investors. The assertions embodied in such representations and warranties are qualified by information contained in disclosure
Table of Contents
letters to each of the merger agreements that the parties exchanged in connection with the signing of the merger agreements. Accordingly, investors and security holders should not rely on such representations and warranties as characterizations of the actual state of facts or circumstances, since they were only made as of the date of each of the merger agreements and are modified in important part by the underlying disclosure letters. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of such representations and warranties may change after the date of each respective merger agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in the Company's, WGR's or KMG's public disclosures.
     The WGR Merger Agreement, KMG Merger Agreement and form of Voting Agreement are attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1, Exhibit 2.2 and Exhibit 10.1 respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The descriptions of the WGR Merger Agreement, Voting Agreements and KMG Merger Agreement set forth above do not purport to be complete and each is qualified in its entirety by reference to the provisions of the WGR Merger Agreement, Voting Agreements, and KMG Merger Agreement, as applicable.
Item 8.01. Other Information
     On June 22, 2006, the Company entered into a commitment letter ("Commitment Letter") with UBS Loan Finance LLC ("UBS"), UBS Securities LLC, Credit Suisse, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. ("Citigroup"). UBS, Credit Suisse and Citigroup (the "Initial Lenders") have agreed, subject to the terms and conditions of the Commitment Letter, to provide the Company with a $24 billion 364-day senior unsecured acquisition facility ("Facility"). Under the Facility, approximately (i) $18 billion will be made available to the Company to finance the KMG Merger, refinance up to $2.1 billion of KMG indebtedness and pay certain fees and expenses in connection with such transactions; and (ii) $6 billion will be made available to the Company to finance the WGR Merger, refinance up to $600 million of WGR indebtedness and pay certain fees and expenses in connection with such transactions. The Company intends to use all or a portion of these proceeds to finance the KMG Merger and WGR Merger, respectively.
     The Facility will mature 364 days from the date of the closing of either the WGR Merger or the KMG Merger, whichever closes first. The Facility will bear interest at either (i) LIBOR plus a certain margin or (ii) the higher of the Federal Funds Rate, plus 1/2 of 1%, and the prime commercial lending rate of UBS AG, Stamford Branch. The Initial Lenders' financing commitments under the Commitment Letter are subject to certain customary conditions. The Commitment Letter will expire upon the earlier of January 10, 2007 and the date of termination of both the WGR Merger Agreement and the KMG Merger Agreement.
     A copy of the press release announcing the WGR Merger and KMG Merger is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
      (this ""), dated as of June 22, 2006, among , a Delaware corporation (""), , a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (""), and , a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement and Plan of Merger
Agreement
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation
Parent
Apc Merger Sub, Inc.
Merger Sub
Western Gas Resources, Inc.
Company
     , the respective Boards of Directors of each of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have unanimously (i) approved and declared advisable the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company (the ""), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and (ii) approved this Agreement.
WHEREAS
Merger
     , as a result of the Merger, and in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $.10 per share of the Company (the "") (other than shares of Company Common Stock owned by the Company, Parent, Merger Sub or any wholly-owned Subsidiary (as defined in ) of the Company or Parent immediately prior to the Effective Time (as defined in ) and Dissenting Shares (as defined in ), will, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, be converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration (as defined in ).
WHEREAS
DGCL
Company Common Stock
Section 2.4(a)
Section 1.2
Section 1.6(d)
Section 1.6(b)
     , as a condition and inducement to Parent to enter into this Agreement and incur the obligations set forth herein, concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Board of Directors of the Company has approved and Parent is entering into Voting Agreements with certain stockholders of the Company named therein, substantially in the form of attached to this Agreement (the ""), pursuant to which, among other things, such stockholders have agreed to vote the shares of Company Common Stock held by such stockholders in favor of the adoption of this Agreement and the approval of the Merger provided for herein, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Company Voting Agreements.
WHEREAS
Exhibit A
Company Voting Agreements
     In consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants contained in this Agreement, the Company Voting Agreements and for other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1.1. Upon the terms and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions hereof, and in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement and the DGCL, at the Effective Time, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into the Company. As a result of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub shall cease and the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation (the "").
The Merger.
Surviving Corporation
 
SECTION 1.2.
Effective Time; Closing
          (a) The closing of the Merger (the "") shall take place at 10:00 a.m. (Central time) on a date to be specified by the parties, which shall be no later than the second Business Day after satisfaction or (to the extent permitted by applicable law) waiver of the conditions set forth in Article 6 (other than any such conditions which by their nature cannot be satisfied until the Closing Date, which shall be required to be so satisfied or (to the extent permitted by applicable law) waived on the Closing Date), at the offices of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, 1111 Louisiana Street, 44th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002 unless another date, time or place is agreed to in writing between Parent and the Company. The date on which the Closing occurs is referred to in this Agreement as the "". As used in this Agreement, "" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in New York, New York.
Closing
Closing Date
Business Day
          (b) On the Closing Date or as promptly as practicable thereafter, the Company hereto shall cause the Merger to be consummated by filing a certificate of merger, in accordance with the DGCL, with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware in such form as required by, and executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL (the "") (the time of such filing (or such later time as is specified in such Certificate of Merger as agreed in writing between Parent and the Company) being the "").
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
SECTION 1.3. At the Effective Time, the effect of the Merger shall be as provided in the applicable provisions of the DGCL (except as provided herein). Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Effective Time, all the property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the Company and Merger Sub shall vest in the Surviving Corporation, and all debts, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, disabilities and duties of each of the Company and the Merger Sub shall become the debts, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, disabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation.
Effect of the Merger
SECTION 1.4. At the Effective Time, the certificate of incorporation of the Company as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be amended to read in its entirety in the form of hereto, and, as so amended shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation. At the Effective Time, the bylaws of the Company as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be amended to read in its entirety in the form of hereto, and, as so amended shall be the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation.
Certificate of Incorporation; Bylaws
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
SECTION 1.5. .
Directors and Officers
          (a) The directors of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective time shall be the directors of the Surviving Corporation until the earlier of their resignation or removal or the election of their successors. The Company shall cause all directors of the Company to resign effective as of the Effective Time.
          (b) The officers of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the officers of the Surviving Corporation until the earlier of their resignation or removal or the election of their successors.
 
SECTION 1.6. . As of the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of Parent, Merger Sub, the Company or any other holder of any shares of capital stock of Company Common Stock:
Effect on Capital Stock
          (a) . Each share of capital stock of Merger Sub outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into one share of common stock of the Surviving Corporation, par value $0.001 per share, and such shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the capital stock of Merger Sub shall represent all of the outstanding shares of the Surviving Corporation.
Capital Stock of Merger Sub
          (b) . Each share of Company Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than Dissenting Shares and any shares to be canceled pursuant to ) shall be canceled and shall be converted automatically by virtue of the Merger into the right to receive $61.00 in cash payable to the holder thereof (the ""). As of the Effective Time, all such shares of Company Common Stock shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and shall cease to exist, and, subject to , each holder of a certificate representing any such shares of Company Common Stock shall cease to have any rights with respect thereto, except the right to receive the Merger Consideration.
Conversion of Company Common Stock
Section 1.6(c)
Merger Consideration
Section 1.6(d)
          (c) . Each share of Company Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company and each share of Company Common Stock owned by Merger Sub, Parent or any wholly-owned Subsidiary of Parent or of the Company immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be canceled without any conversion thereof and no payment or distribution shall be made with respect thereto.
Cancellation of Treasury Stock and Parent-Owned Stock
          (d) .
Shares of Company Common Stock of Dissenting Stockholders
          (i) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, all of the shares of Company Common Stock that are outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and which are held by holders of Company Common Stock who shall have not voted in favor of the Merger or consented thereto in writing and who shall have demanded properly in writing an appraisal of the "fair value" of such Company Common Stock in accordance with Section 262 of the DGCL (collectively, the "") shall be cancelled and terminated and shall cease to have any rights with respect to Dissenting Shares other than such rights as are granted pursuant to Section 262 of the DGCL, except that all Dissenting Shares held by holders of Company Common Stock who shall have failed to perfect or who effectively shall have withdrawn or lost their rights for an appraisal of such shares under the DGCL shall thereupon be deemed to have been cancelled and terminated, as of the Effective Time, and shall represent solely the right to receive the Merger Consideration as provided in , upon surrender in the manner provided in , of the certificate or certificates that formerly evidenced such shares of Company Common Stock.
Dissenting Shares
Section 1.6(b)
Section 1.7
          (ii) The Company shall give to Parent prompt written notice of any demands for appraisal received by the Company, withdrawals of such demands, and any other instruments served pursuant to Section 262 of the DGCL and received by the
 
Company in connection therewith. The Company and Parent shall jointly direct all negotiations and proceedings with respect to demands for payment of fair market value under the DGCL. The Company shall not, except with the prior written consent of Parent, voluntarily make any payment with respect to any such demands, or offer to settle, or settle, any such demands. Any amount payable to any holder of Company Common Stock exercising appraisal rights shall be paid in accordance with the DGCL solely by the Surviving Corporation out of its own funds.
SECTION 1.7. .
Exchange of Company Certificates
          (a) . Prior to the Effective Time, Parent shall designate a bank or trust company reasonably satisfactory to the Company to act as agent for the holders of Company Common Stock in connection with the Merger (the "") to receive in trust the funds to which they shall become entitled pursuant to or . From time to time, Parent shall make available, or cause the Surviving Corporation to make available, to the Paying Agent or the Surviving Corporation (as the case may be) cash in amounts and at times necessary for the prompt payment of the Merger Consideration or other cash amount (as the case may be) as provided in or , in the case of the Company Common Stock, upon surrender of certificates representing the shares of Company Common Stock as provided herein or, in the case of Options if applicable, upon surrender of the written acknowledgements contemplated by . All interest earned on such funds shall be paid to Parent.
Paying Agent
Paying Agent
Section 1.6(b)
Section 1.8
Section 1.6(b)
Section 1.8
Section 1.8
          (b) . As soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Time, the Paying Agent shall mail to each holder of record of a certificate or certificates that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented shares of Company Common Stock (the ""), (i) a letter of transmittal (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to the Company Certificates shall pass, only upon delivery of the Company Certificates to the Paying Agent and shall be in a form and have such other provisions as Parent and the Company may reasonably specify) and (ii) instructions for use in effecting the surrender of the Company Certificates in exchange for the Merger Consideration as provided in . Parent will use its reasonable efforts to cause provision to be made for holders of Company Certificates to procure in person immediately after the Effective Time a letter of transmittal and instructions and to deliver in person immediately after the Effective Time such letter of transmittal and Company Certificates in exchange for the Merger Consideration. Upon surrender of a Company Certificate for cancellation to the Paying Agent or to such other agent or agents as may be appointed by Parent (reasonably satisfactory to the Company), together with such letter of transmittal, duly executed, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Paying Agent, the holder of such Company Certificate shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor the Merger Consideration, and the Company Certificate so surrendered shall forthwith be canceled. In the event of a transfer of ownership of Company Common Stock that is not registered in the transfer records of the Company, payment may be made to a Person other than the Person in whose name the Company Certificate so surrendered is registered, if such Company Certificate shall be properly endorsed or otherwise be in proper form for transfer and the Person requesting such payment shall pay any transfer or other taxes required by reason of the payment to a Person other than the registered holder of such
Exchange Procedure
Company Certificates
Section 1.6(b)
 
Company Certificate or establish to the reasonable satisfaction of the Surviving Corporation that such tax has been paid or is not applicable. Until surrendered as contemplated by this , each Company Certificate shall be deemed at any time after the Effective Time to represent only the right to receive upon such surrender the Merger Consideration pursuant to . No interest will be paid or will accrue on the cash payable upon the surrender of any Company Certificate.
Section 1.7(b)
Section 1.6(b)
          (c) . All cash paid upon the surrender of Company Certificates in accordance with the terms of this shall be deemed to have been paid in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to the Company Common Stock theretofore represented by such Company Certificates. At the Effective Time, the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed, and there shall be no further registration of transfers on the stock transfer books of the Surviving Corporation of Company Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time. If, after the Effective Time, Company Certificates are presented to the Surviving Corporation or the Paying Agent for any reason, they shall be canceled and exchanged for cash as provided in this .
No Further Ownership Rights in Company Common Stock; Transfer Books
Article 1
Article 1
          (d) . At any time following twelve months after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall be entitled to require the Paying Agent to deliver to it any funds (including any interest received with respect thereto) which had been made available to the Paying Agent and which have not been disbursed to holders of Company Certificates, and thereafter such holders shall be entitled to look to the Surviving Corporation (subject to abandoned property, escheat or other similar laws) only as general creditors thereof with respect to the Merger Consideration, payable upon due surrender of their Company Certificates, without any interest thereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of Parent, Merger Sub, the Company or the Paying Agent shall be liable to any Person in respect of any cash delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law. If any Company Certificates shall not have been surrendered immediately prior to such date on which any payment pursuant to this would otherwise escheat to or become the property of any Governmental Authority, the Merger Consideration in respect of such Company Certificate shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, become the property of the Surviving Corporation, free and clear of all claims or interests of any Person previously entitled thereto. As used in this Agreement, "" shall mean the United States federal, state, local or any foreign government, governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency, or commission or any court, tribunal, or judicial or arbitral body or entity.
Termination of Fund; No Liability
Article 1
Governmental Authority
          (e) . In the event any Company Certificates evidencing Company Common Stock shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, the Paying Agent shall pay to such holder the Merger Consideration required pursuant to , in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed Company Certificates, upon the making of an affidavit, which shall include indemnities and the posting of a bond which are reasonably acceptable to Parent, of that fact by the holder thereof with such assurances as the Paying Agent, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the payment of the Merger Consideration may reasonably require of the holder of such lost, stolen or destroyed Company Certificates.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
Section 1.6(b)
 
          (f) . Parent and Merger Sub shall be entitled to deduct and withhold, or cause the Paying Agent to deduct and withhold, from the consideration otherwise payable to a holder of Company Common Stock pursuant to the Merger any stock transfer taxes and such amounts as are required to be withheld or deducted under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), or any applicable provisions of state, local or foreign tax law. To the extent that amounts are so withheld, such withheld amounts shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of Company Common Stock in respect of which such deduction and withholding were made.
Withholding Taxes
Code
SECTION 1.8. .
Options
          (a) At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of any holder of any outstanding Option (hereinafter defined), whether vested or unvested, exercisable or unexercisable, each Option that is outstanding and unexercised immediately prior thereto shall immediately and fully vest, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth below in this , each such Option shall terminate and be cancelled at the Effective Time and each holder of an Option will be entitled to receive from Parent, and shall receive, in settlement of each Option a Cash Amount. The shall be equal to the net amount of (A) the product of (i) the excess, if any, of the Merger Consideration over the exercise price per share of such Option, multiplied by (ii) the number of shares subject to such Option, less (B) any applicable withholdings for Taxes. If the exercise price per share of any Option equals or exceeds the Merger Consideration, the Cash Amount therefor shall be zero. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of the top 20 holders of Options (based on the aggregate "spread value" of such Options), payment of the Cash Amount is subject to written acknowledgement, in the form of attached to this Agreement, that no further payment is due to such holder on account of any Option and all of such holder's rights under such Options have terminated. As used in this Agreement, "" means any option granted, and not exercised, expired or terminated, to a current or former employee, director or independent contractor of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any predecessor thereof or any other Person to purchase shares of Company Common Stock pursuant to: 1997 Stock Option Plan, 1999 Stock Option Plan, 1999 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan, Employment Agreement, dated October 15, 2001, and the Stock Option Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2001, between the Company and Peter A. Dea, 2002 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan, 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, or any other stock option, stock bonus, stock award, or stock purchase plan, program, or arrangement of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any predecessor thereof ("") or any other contract or agreement entered into by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries.
Section 1.8
"
Cash Amount
"
Exhibit D
Option
Company Stock Plans
          (b) At the Effective Time, all restrictions on the then outstanding shares of Restricted Stock (as defined below) shall immediately lapse, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, each holder of Restricted Stock will be entitled to receive from Parent, and shall receive, in settlement of each share of Restricted Stock, the Merger Consideration less any applicable withholdings for Taxes. As used in this Agreement, "" means any outstanding award of restricted Company Common Stock with respect to which the restrictions have not lapsed, and which award shall not have previously expired or terminated, to a current or former employee, director or independent contractor of the
Restricted Stock
 
Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any predecessor thereof or any other Person pursuant to any applicable Company Stock Plan or any other contract or agreement entered into by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries.
          (c) At the Effective Time, all stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units or other phantom equity based awards ("") granted under any Company Stock Plan shall be cancelled by the Company and shall no longer be outstanding thereafter. In consideration for such cancellation, the holder thereof shall thereupon be entitled to receive, at the Effective Time, a cash payment from Parent in respect of such cancellation in an amount (if any) equal to the net amount of (i) product of (A) the excess, if any, of the Merger Consideration over the exercise price, if any, per share of Company Common Stock subject to such equity based awards and (B) the number of shares subject to such equity based awards less (ii) any applicable withholding for Taxes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the cash payment is subject to written acknowledgement, in the form of attached to this Agreement, that no further payment is due to the holder on account of any Other Equity Award and all of such holder's rights under any such Other Equity Award have terminated.
Other Equity Awards
Exhibit E
          (d) As of the Effective Time, except as provided in this , all rights under any Option and any provision of the Company Stock Plans providing for the issuance or grant of any other interest in respect of the capital stock of the Company (collectively, "") shall be cancelled. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to ensure that, as of and after the Effective Time, except as provided in this , no Person shall have any rights under the Company Stock Plans or any other plan, program or arrangement with respect to securities of the Company, the Surviving Corporation or any subsidiary thereof.
Section 1.8
Company Equity Awards
Section 1.8
          (e) Parent and the Company agree that, in order to most effectively compensate and retain Company Insiders (as defined below) in connection with the Merger, both prior to and after the Effective Time, it is desirable that Company Insiders not be subject to a risk of liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act (as defined in ), to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law in connection with the cancellation of shares of Company Common Stock and Company Equity Awards in the Merger, and for that compensatory and retentive purpose agree to the provisions of this . The Board of Directors of the Company, or a committee of Non-Employee Directors (as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 16b-3(d) under the Exchange Act) thereof, shall adopt a resolution providing that the disposition by Company Insiders of Company Common Stock and Company Equity Awards, in each case pursuant to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, are intended to be exempt from liability pursuant to Section 16(b) under the Exchange Act. "" shall mean those officers and directors of the Company who are subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.
Section 2.3(c)
Section 1.8(e)
Company Insiders
          (f) At or before the Effective Time, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be effected any necessary amendments to the Company Stock Plans and any other resolutions, consents or notices, in such form reasonably acceptable to Parent, required under the Company Stock Plans or any Options to give effect to the foregoing provisions of this and to use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the acknowledgements required under and .
Section 1.8
Section 1.8(a)
(c)
 
     Except as publicly disclosed by the Company in the Company SEC Reports (as defined in ) filed with the SEC prior to the date of this Agreement (to the extent the qualifying nature of such disclosure is readily apparent on its face) and except as set forth on the disclosure letter (each section of which qualifies the correspondingly numbered representation and warranty or covenant to the extent specified therein, provided that any disclosure set forth with respect to any particular section shall be deemed to be disclosed in reference to all other applicable sections of this Agreement if the disclosure in respect of the particular section is sufficient on its face without further inquiry reasonably to inform Parent of the information required to be disclosed in respect of the other sections to avoid a breach under the representation and warranty or covenant corresponding to such other sections) previously delivered by the Company to Parent (the ""), the Company hereby represents and warrants to Parent and Merger Sub as follows:
Section 2.5(a)
Company Disclosure Letter
SECTION 2.1. . The Company and each of the Subsidiaries of the Company (the "") is a corporation, limited liability company or partnership duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize the concept of good standing) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all requisite entity power and authority to own, operate and lease its properties and to carry on its business as now conducted. The Company and each of the Company Subsidiaries is duly qualified and/or licensed, as may be required, and in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize the concept of good standing) in each of the jurisdictions in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character of the property owned, leased or used by it makes such qualification and/or licensing necessary, except in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified and/or licensed, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. A "" means a material adverse effect on (i) the business, operations, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise or (ii) the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; , that any event, condition, change, occurrence or development of a state of circumstances which (A) adversely affects the oil and gas exploration and development or gas processing and transportation or Hydrocarbon (as defined in Section 2.17) marketing industries generally (including changes in commodity prices or markets, general market prices and legal or regulatory changes) (and in each case does not disproportionately affect the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise as compared to similarly situated Persons), (B) arises out of general economic or industry conditions (and in each case does not disproportionately affect the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise as compared to similarly situated Persons), (C) arises out of any change in generally accepted accounting principles ("") (which does not disproportionately affect the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise as compared to similarly situated Persons), or (D) (other than with respect to ) arises out of, results from or relates to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the announcement thereof, shall not be considered in determining whether a Company Material
Organization
Company Subsidiaries
Company Material Adverse Effect
provided, however
GAAP
Section 2.3
 
Adverse Effect has occurred. The copies of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Company which are incorporated by reference as exhibits to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 are complete and correct copies of such documents and contain all amendments thereto as in effect on the date of this Agreement. The copies of the certificate or articles of incorporation and bylaws of the Company Subsidiaries which were made available to Parent prior to the date of this Agreement are complete and correct copies of such documents and contain all amendments thereto as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.2. .
Capitalization
          (a) As of the date of this Agreement, the authorized capital stock of the Company consists of (i) 100,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock, 76,100,462 of which are issued and outstanding and (ii) 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.10 per share, issuable in series (""), of which 500,000 have been designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. As of the date of this Agreement, no shares of Company Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding and 500,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were reserved for issuance upon exercise of the rights ("") distributed to the holders of Company Common Stock pursuant to the Rights Agreement, dated as of March 22, 2001 (the ""), between the Company and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (successor-in-interest to Fleet National Bank (f/k/a Bank Boston, N.A.)), as amended, and 50,032 shares of Company Common Stock were held by the Company in its treasury. Since January 1, 2006, the amount of the dividend paid quarterly on Company Common Stock is $0.075 per share (the ""). Except for the Quarterly Dividend, since January 1, 2006, the Company has not, declared or paid any dividend, or declared or made any distribution on, or authorized the creation or issuance of, or issued, or authorized or effected any split-up or any other recapitalization of, any of its capital stock, or directly or indirectly redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired any of its outstanding capital stock. Such issued and outstanding shares of Company Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and free of preemptive rights. There are no outstanding contractual obligations of the Company of any kind to redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire any outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company. There are no outstanding bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness or warrants or other securities of the Company having the right to vote (or, other than any outstanding options to purchase Company Common Stock, convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which stockholders of the Company may vote.
Company Preferred Stock
Company Rights
Rights Agreement
Quarterly Dividend
          (b) As of the date that is three business days prior to the date of this Agreement, 3,002 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding Options under the 1997 Stock Option Plan (with a weighted average exercise price of $5.82), 427,979 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding Options under the 1999 Stock Option Plan (with a weighted average exercise price of $19.8484), 2,600 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding Options under the 1999 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan (with a weighted average exercise price of $2.76), 450,000 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding Options under the Employment Agreement, dated October 15, 2001, and the Stock Option Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2001, between the Company and
 
Peter A. Dea (with a weighted average exercise price of $12.505), 168,000 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding Options under the 2002 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan (with a weighted average exercise price of $33.1427), 1,502,003 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding Options under the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (with a weighted average exercise price of $25.0448), 1,333,428 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding Options under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (with a weighted average exercise price of $37.45), and 2,857,632 additional shares of Company Common Stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to the Company Stock Plans. There are no stock appreciation rights issued under the Company Stock Plans. Except as set forth above in this and Section 2.2(b) of the Company Disclosure Letter, no shares of capital stock or other voting securities of the Company are issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding, and there are no outstanding securities, options, warrants, calls, rights, commitments, agreements, arrangements or undertakings of any kind to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound obligating the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, additional shares of capital stock or other voting securities of the Company or of any of the Company Subsidiaries or obligating the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries to issue, grant, extend or enter into any such security, option, warrant, call, right, commitment, agreement, arrangement or undertaking.
Section 2.2
SECTION 2.3. .
Authorization; No Conflict
          (a) The Company has the requisite corporate power and authority to enter into and deliver this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company, the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company. No other corporate proceedings on the part of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries are necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, except for the adoption of this Agreement by the Required Company Stockholder Vote (as defined in ), if required by applicable law. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that its enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization or other laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles.
Section 2.11(b)
          (b) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company nor the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby nor compliance by the Company with any of the provisions herein will (i) result in a violation or breach of or conflict with the (x) certificate or articles of incorporation or bylaws of the Company or any Company Subsidiary that is a corporation or (y) the articles or certificate of formation or the limited liability company agreement of any Company Subsidiary that is a limited liability company, (ii) result in a violation or breach of or conflict with any provisions of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default)
 
under, or result in the termination, cancellation of, or give rise to a right of purchase under, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of termination or acceleration under, or result in the creation of any Lien (as defined in ) upon any of the properties or assets owned or operated by the Company or any Company Subsidiaries under, or result in being declared void, voidable, or without further binding effect, under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, contract, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation of any kind to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets is bound or (iii) subject to obtaining or making the consents, approvals, orders, authorizations, registrations, declarations and filings referred to in paragraph (c) below and the Required Company Stockholder Vote, violate any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction, decree, statute, law (including the common law), rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets, other than any such event described in items (ii) or (iii) which, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have or result in a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Section 2.4(b)
          (c) Except for the consents, approvals, orders or authorizations of, or registrations, declarations or filings with, any Governmental Authority set forth in Section 2.3 of the Company Disclosure Letter (the ""), no consent, approval, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any Governmental Authority is necessary to be obtained or made by the Company or any Company Subsidiary in connection with the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, except for (i) compliance with the DGCL, with respect to the filing of the Certificate of Merger, (ii) compliance with the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "") and the Competition Act (Canada) (the ""), and other applicable foreign competition or antitrust laws, if any, (iii) the filing with the SEC of (A) a proxy statement relating to the Company Stockholders Meeting (as defined in ) (such proxy statement, as amended or supplemented from time to time, the ""), and (B) such reports under Section 13(a), 13(d), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""), as may be required in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, (iv) compliance with the rules of the NYSE, (v) such governmental or tribal consents, qualifications or filings as are customarily obtained or made following the transfer of interests in oil and gas properties (""), (vi) compliance with the "blue sky" laws of various states, and (vii) such other consents, approvals, orders or authorizations of, or registrations, declarations or filings with, any Governmental Authority where the failure to obtain or take such action, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have or result in a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Required Approvals
HSR Act
Competition Act
Section 5.1(b)
Proxy Statement
Exchange Act
Customary Post Closing Consents
SECTION 2.4. .
Subsidiaries
          (a) Section 2.4(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter sets forth the name and jurisdiction of organization of each (i) Company Subsidiary; and (ii) entity in which the
 
Company (other than the Company Subsidiaries) or any Company Subsidiary owns any interest. As used in this Agreement, (i) "" means with respect to any Person, another Person, an amount of the voting securities or other voting ownership interests of which is sufficient to elect at least a majority of its Board of Directors or other governing body (or, if there are no such voting interests, 50% or more of the equity interests of which) is owned directly or indirectly by such first Person; and (ii) "" means an individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or governmental or other entity.
Subsidiary
Person
          (b) All of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity securities of, or other ownership interests in, each Company Subsidiary are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and such shares, securities or interests are owned by the Company or by a Company Subsidiary free and clear of any Liens or limitations on voting rights. There are no subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, rights, convertible securities or other agreements or commitments of any character relating to the issuance, transfer, sales, delivery, voting or redemption (including any rights of conversion or exchange under any outstanding security or other instrument) for any of the capital stock or other equity interests of, or other ownership interests in, any Company Subsidiaries. There are no agreements requiring the Company or any Company Subsidiary to make contributions to the capital of, or lend or advance funds to, any Company Subsidiary. As used in this Agreement, "" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset.
Lien
SECTION 2.5. .
SEC Reports and Financial Statements
          (a) Since January 1, 2003, the Company has filed with the SEC all forms, reports, schedules, registration statements, definitive proxy statements and other documents (collectively, including all exhibits thereto, the "") required to be filed by the Company with the SEC. As of their respective dates, and giving effect to any amendments or supplements thereto filed prior to the date of this Agreement, the Company SEC Reports complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") and the Exchange Act, and the respective rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder applicable to the Company SEC Reports, and none of the Company SEC Reports contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Since March 31, 2006, no event has occurred with respect to the Company or any of Company Subsidiaries that requires the filing of a current report on Form 8-K with respect to such event for which such Form 8-K has not otherwise been filed (including situations in which the Form 8-K with respect to such event is not due as of the date hereof). None of the Company Subsidiaries is required to file any forms, reports or other documents with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15 of the Exchange Act.
Company SEC Reports
Securities Act
          (b) The consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and consolidated statements of cash flows (including, in each case, any related notes and schedules thereto) (collectively, the "") of the Company contained in the Company SEC Reports have been prepared from the books and records of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries,
Company Financial Statements
 
comply as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been prepared in conformity with GAAP (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as otherwise noted therein, including the notes thereto) and present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position and the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries as of the dates or for the periods presented therein (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to normal and recurring year-end adjustments in the ordinary course of business). Except as reflected or reserved against in the Company Financial Statements, as of the date hereof, neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries has any material liabilities or material obligations of any nature (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise) that would be required by GAAP to be reflected on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (including the notes thereto), other than liabilities or obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice since December 31, 2005.
          (c) Since January 1, 2003, the Company has not received written notice from the SEC or any other Governmental Authority that any of its accounting policies or practices are or may be the subject of any review, inquiry, investigation or challenge by the SEC or other Governmental Authority. Since January 1, 2003, the Company's independent public accounting firm has not informed Company that it has any material questions, challenges or disagreements that were required to be disclosed in the SEC Reports regarding or pertaining to Company's accounting policies or practices. Since the effectiveness of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries has arranged any outstanding "extensions of credit" to directors or executive officers within the meaning of Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Set forth in Section 2.5(c) of the Company Disclosure Letter is a list of all off-balance sheet special purpose entities and financing arrangements of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
          (d) With respect to each annual report on Form 10-K, each quarterly report on Form 10-Q and each amendment of any such report included in the Company SEC Reports, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the Company have made all certifications pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and any related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the NYSE, and the statements contained in any such certifications are complete and correct. Neither the Company nor its officers has received notice from any Governmental Authority questioning or challenging the accuracy, completeness, form or manner of filing or submission of such certificates.
          (e) The Company has established and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act); such disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material information relating to Company required to be disclosed in the Company's Exchange Act reports, including its consolidated Company Subsidiaries, is made known to the Company's principal executive officer and its principal financial officer by others within those entities, particularly during the periods in which the periodic reports required under the Exchange Act are being prepared. The Company has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
 
reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act), to the Company's independent public accounting firm and the audit committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (i) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
          (f) The Company is in compliance in all material respects with all current listing and corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, and is in compliance in all material respects and will continue to remain in compliance in all material respects from the date hereof until immediately after the Effective Time, with all rules, regulations and requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
SECTION 2.6. . Since December 31, 2005, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have conducted their business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and there has not been or occurred:
Absence of Material Adverse Changes, etc
          (a) any event, condition, change, occurrence or development of a state of circumstances which, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect;
          (b) any material damage, destruction or other casualty loss (in the case of such damage, destruction or loss occurring prior to the date hereof, whether or not covered by insurance, and in the case of such damage, destruction or loss occurring following the date hereof, not covered by insurance) affecting the business or assets owned or operated by the Company and the Company Subsidiaries; or
          (c) any event, condition, action or occurrence that, if taken during the period from the date of this Agreement through the Effective Time, would constitute a breach of Section 4.1(b)(i)-(vi), (viii)-(xvii), (xix)-(xxi), (xxiii) and (xxvii)-(xxix).
SECTION 2.7. . There are no suits, actions or legal, administrative, arbitration or other proceedings or governmental investigations pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party which, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. There are no judgments, decrees, injunctions, awards or orders of any Governmental Authority outstanding against the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries which, individually or in the aggregate, have had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
SECTION 2.8. . None of the information supplied or to be supplied by the Company specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to the Company's stockholders or at the time of the Company Stockholders Meeting contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The portions of the Proxy
Information Supplied
 
Statement supplied by the Company will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act. No representation or warranty is made by the Company with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by Parent or Merger Sub specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement.
SECTION 2.9. . Except for Petrie Parkman & Co., Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (the ""), no agent, broker, Person or firm acting on behalf of the Company or any Company Subsidiary or under the Company's or any Company Subsidiary's authority is or will be entitled to any financial advisory, broker's or finder's fee or similar commission from any of the parties hereto in connection with any of the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company has furnished to Parent a true and complete copy of the Company's agreement with the Company Financial Advisors pursuant to which the Company Financial Advisors are entitled to a fee in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Broker's or Finder's Fees
Company Financial Advisors
SECTION 2.10. .
Employee Plans
          (a) There are no material Company Employee Benefit Plans currently or in the past that have been established, maintained, adopted, participated in, sponsored, contributed to or required to be contributed to, by the Company or any entity with which the Company is considered a single employer under Section 414(b), (c) or (m) of the Code (""). As used in this Agreement, "" means any plan, program, policy, practice, agreement or other arrangement providing compensation or benefits in any form to any current or former employee, independent contractor, officer or director of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any beneficiary or dependent thereof, whether written or unwritten, formal or informal, including without limitation any "employee welfare benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA (""), any "employee pension benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA (whether or not such plan is subject to ERISA) ("") and any other pension, profit-sharing, bonus, incentive compensation, deferred compensation, vacation, sick pay, stock purchase, stock option, phantom equity, severance, employment, consulting, unemployment, hospitalization or other medical, life, or other insurance, long- or short-term disability, change of control, fringe benefit, or any other plan, program or policy. With respect to each material Company Employee Benefit Plan, the Company has made available to Parent, to the extent requested by Parent, a true, correct and complete copy of: (i) each writing constituting a part of such Company Employee Benefit Plan and all amendments thereto; (ii) the most recent Annual Report (Form 5500 Series) including all applicable schedules, if required; (iii) the current summary plan description and any material modifications thereto, if required to be furnished under ERISA, or any written summary provided to participants with respect to any plan for which no summary plan description exists; and (iv) the most recent determination letter (or if applicable, advisory or opinion letter) from the Internal Revenue Service, if any, or if an application for a determination letter is pending, the application with all attachments. (c) Each Company Employee Benefit Plan that is intended to be "qualified" within the meaning of Section 401(a), 401(f), or 403(a) of the Code and, to the extent applicable, Section 401(k) of the Code (""), has
Company ERISA Affiliates
Company Employee Benefit Plan
Company Employee Welfare Benefit Plan
Company Employee Pension Benefit Plan
Qualified Company Employee Benefit Plan
 
received a favorable determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service that has not been revoked and covers "GUST" as defined in footnote 2 of IRS Notice 2003-49, and no event has occurred and no condition exists that could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the qualified status of any such Company Employee Benefit Plan.
          (d) Each Company Employee Benefit Plan has been operated and administered in all material respects in accordance with its provisions.
          (e) The Company and the Company Subsidiaries have complied, and are now in compliance, in all material respects, with all provisions of ERISA, the Code and all laws and regulations applicable to the Company Employee Benefit Plans. Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has engaged in any prohibited transaction, within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA, as a fiduciary or party in interest with respect to any Company Employee Benefit Plan, and, to the knowledge of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, (x) no prohibited transaction has occurred with respect to any Company Employee Benefit Plan and (y) no fiduciary has any liability for breach of fiduciary duty or any other failure to act or comply in connection with the administration or investment of assets of any Company Employee Benefit Plan.
          (f) Neither the Company nor any Company ERISA Affiliate has ever established, maintained, contributed to, or had an obligation to contribute to, any Company Employee Benefit Plan that is a "multiemployer plan," as that term is defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA, or is subject to Title IV of ERISA, and no liability under Title IV of ERISA (including a liability to pay premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation) has been or is expected to be incurred by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries.
          (g) The Company and the Company Subsidiaries have not offered to provide life, health or medical benefits or insurance coverage to any individual, or to the family members of any individual, for any period extending beyond the termination of the individual's employment, except to the extent required by the COBRA provisions in ERISA and the Code or similar provisions of state law.
          (h) The consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not, either alone or in connection with termination of employment, (i) entitle any current or former employee, independent contractor, director, or officer of the Company or the Company Subsidiaries to severance pay, any change in control payment, or any other material payment, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting, change the form or method of payment, or increase the amount of compensation due, any such employee, independent contractor, director, or officer, or (iii) make any payments (whether in cash or property, including shares of capital stock) non-deductible under Section 280G of the Code or subject to the excise tax under Section 4999, or (iv) entitle any such employee, independent contractor, director or officer to any gross-up or similar material payment in respect of the excise tax described in Section 4999 of the Code.
          (i) There are no suits, ongoing audits, actions, proceedings, claims or orders pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any Company Employee Benefit Plan related to any Company Employee Benefit
 
Plan (other than claims in the ordinary course of business), and the Company has no knowledge of any investigations regarding any Company Employee Benefit Plan. No Company Employee Benefit Plan is the subject of any pending application for administrative relief under any voluntary compliance program or closing agreement program of the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Labor.
          (j) As used in this Agreement "" means the Employee Retirement Income Securities Act of 1974, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ERISA
          (k) All arrangements that could be deemed "nonqualified deferred compensation" arrangements under Section 409A of the Code ("") are, to the Company's reasonable knowledge, compliant with Section 409A, and no employee is entitled to a tax gross-up or similar payment for any excise tax that may be due under Section 409A.
Section 409A
SECTION 2.11. .
Board Recommendation; Company Action; Requisite Vote of the Company's Stockholders
          (a) The Board of Directors of the Company has, by resolutions duly adopted by the requisite vote of the directors present at a meeting of such board duly called and held on June 22, 2006 and not subsequently rescinded or modified in any way, unanimously (i) determined that this Agreement, the Merger, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and the other transactions contemplated hereby are advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders, (ii) approved and adopted this Agreement and approved the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby, (iii) directed that this Agreement be submitted for consideration by the stockholders of the Company and recommended that the stockholders of the Company adopt this Agreement (provided that any change in or modification or rescission of such recommendation by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance with shall not be a breach of the representation in this clause (iii)) (collectively, the ""). The Board of Directors of the Company has received from each of the Company Financial Advisors an opinion, a written copy of which has been provided to Parent, solely for informational purposes, to the effect that, as of the date of the opinion, the consideration to be received in the Merger by holders of Company Common Stock is fair from a financial point of view.
Section 5.8
Company Recommendation
          (b) The affirmative vote of stockholders of the Company required for adoption of this Agreement and the Merger is and will be no greater than a majority in voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of Company Common Stock (the "").
Required Company Stockholder Vote
SECTION 2.12. .
Taxes
          (a) Each of the Company and each Company Subsidiary has timely filed all material Tax Returns required to be filed by it and all such Tax Returns are true, complete and correct in all material respects. All Taxes shown as due on such Tax Returns have been paid in full and the Company and each Company Subsidiary has made adequate provision (or adequate provision has been made on its behalf) for all material accrued Taxes not yet due. The accruals
 
and reserves for Taxes reflected in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 are adequate to cover all material Taxes accruing through such date. The Company and the Company Subsidiaries have withheld and paid over all material Taxes required to have been withheld and paid over, and complied in all material respects with all information reporting and backup withholding requirements in connection with amounts paid or owing to any employee, creditor, independent contractor or other third party. Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has received a written notice of any material Liens on any of the assets, rights or properties of the Company or any Company Subsidiary with respect to Taxes, other than Liens for Taxes not yet due and payable or for Taxes that the Company or a Company Subsidiary is contesting in good faith through appropriate proceedings.
          (b) As of the date of this Agreement, no federal, state, local or foreign audits or other administrative proceedings or court proceedings are presently pending with regard to any material Taxes or material Tax Returns of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, and neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has received a written notice of any material pending or proposed claims, audits or proceedings with respect to Taxes. Each material deficiency resulting from any audit or examination relating to Taxes of the Company or any Company Subsidiary by any taxing authority has been paid or is being contested in good faith and in accordance with law and is adequately reserved for on the balance sheets contained in the Company Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP. No material claim is pending and no claim has ever been made that has not been resolved by an authority in a jurisdiction where the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries does not file Tax Returns that the Company or any Company Subsidiary, as the case may be, is or may be subject to Tax in that jurisdiction. Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has received any material private letter ruling of the Internal Revenue Service or comparable material rulings of other tax authorities that will be binding on the Company or any Company Subsidiary with respect to any period following the Closing Date.
          (c) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has requested any extension of time within which to file any material Tax Return which Tax Return has not yet been filed. There are no agreements, waivers of statutes of limitations, or other arrangements providing for extensions of time in respect of the assessment or collection of any material unpaid Taxes against the Company or any Company Subsidiary. Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has been a party to a "listed transaction" within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.6011-4(b).
          (d) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a party to any Tax sharing agreement, Tax indemnity obligation or similar agreement, arrangement or practice with respect to material Taxes (including any advance pricing agreement, closing agreement or other agreement relating to Taxes with any taxing authority) that will be binding on the Company or any Company Subsidiary with respect to any period following the Closing Date.
          (e) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has constituted either a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355 (a)(1)(A) of the Code) in a distribution of stock qualifying for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code (A) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement, or (B) in a distribution
 
that could otherwise constitute part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" (within the meaning of Section 355 (e) of the Code) in conjunction with the Merger.
          (f) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has been a member of an affiliated group filing a consolidated federal income Tax Return (other than a group the common parent of which was the Company.
          (g) To the knowledge of the Company, none of the Company or any Company Subsidiary will be required to include any material item of income in, or exclude any material item of deduction from, taxable income for any taxable period (or portion thereof) ending after the Closing Date, as a result of any: (i) change in method of accounting for a taxable period ending on or prior to the Closing Date; (ii) "closing agreement" as described in Section 7121 of the Code (or any corresponding or similar provision of state, local, or foreign income Tax law) executed on or prior to the Closing Date; or (iii) open transaction disposition made on or prior to the Closing Date.
          (h) As used in this Agreement "" means (i) all taxes, levies or other like assessments, charges or fees (including estimated taxes, charges and fees), including income, franchise, profits, corporations, advance corporation, gross receipts, transfer, excise, property, sales, use, value-added, ad valorem, license, capital, wage, employment, payroll, withholding, social security, severance, occupation, import, custom, stamp, alternative, add-on minimum, environmental or other governmental taxes or charges, imposed by the United States or any state, county, local or foreign government or subdivision or agency thereof, including any interest, penalties or additions to tax applicable or related thereto; and (ii) all liability for the payment of any amounts of the type described in clause (i) as the result of being a member of an affiliated, consolidated, combined or unitary group. As used in this Agreement, "" means any report, return, statement, declaration or other written information required to be supplied to a taxing or other Governmental Authority in connection with Taxes including any schedules or attachments thereto, including any amendments thereto, and including any information returns.
Taxes
Tax Return
SECTION 2.13. . Except as, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect:
Environmental Matters
          (a) To the knowledge of the Company, there are no conditions existing on any real property currently or formerly owned, leased or operated by the Company or any Company Subsidiary that give rise to any or would reasonably be expected to constitute a violation of or result in any liability under any Environmental Law (as defined below).
          (b) The Company and the Company Subsidiaries have been and are in compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws (as defined below). There are no pending actions, suits, proceedings, demands, claims, information requests or notices of non-compliance or violation, nor, to the knowledge of the Company, are any such matters threatened or under investigation, against, regarding, or otherwise affecting the Company or any Company Subsidiary relating to any liability under any Environmental Law.
          (c) All permits, notices, approvals and authorizations, if any, required to be obtained or filed in connection with the operation of the Company's and the Company
 
Subsidiaries' businesses and the operation or use of any real property owned, leased or operated by the Company or any Company Subsidiary, pursuant to any applicable Environmental Law, have been duly obtained or filed, are currently in effect, and the Company and the Company Subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such permits, notices, approvals and authorizations.
          (d) None of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries is subject to or has otherwise assumed any pending or, to the knowledge of Company, threatened, claim related to Environmental Law.
          (e) The representations and warranties set forth in are the Company's sole and exclusive representations and warranties related to environmental matters.
Section 2.13
          (f) As used in this Agreement, (i) "" means any federal, foreign, state and local law or legal requirement, including regulations, orders, permits, licenses, approvals, ordinances, directives and the common law, pertaining to pollution, the environment, the protection of the environment or human health and safety, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (""), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (""), the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Atomic Energy Act, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act and any similar federal, foreign, state or local law.
Environmental Laws
RCRA
CERCLA
SECTION 2.14. . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable laws, rules or regulations of any United States federal, state or local or foreign government or agency thereof that materially affect the business, properties or assets owned or leased by the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, and no notice, charge, claim, action or assertion has been received by the Company or any Company Subsidiary has been filed, commenced or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any Company Subsidiary alleging any such non-compliance. All licenses, permits and approvals required under such laws, rules and regulations are in full force and effect, except where the failure to be in full force and effect, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no representation or warranty in this is made with respect to permits issued under or matters relating to Environmental Laws, which are covered exclusively by the provisions set forth in .
Compliance with Laws
Section 2.14
Section 2.13
SECTION 2.15. .
Employment Matters
          (a) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary: (i) is a party to or otherwise bound by any collective bargaining agreement, labor contract or other labor agreement or understanding with a labor union or labor organization, nor is any such contract or agreement presently being negotiated, nor, to the knowledge of the Company, is there, nor has there been in the last five years, a representation campaign respecting any of the employees of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries, and, to the knowledge of the Company, there are no campaigns being conducted to solicit cards from employees of the Company or any of the
 
Company Subsidiaries to authorize representation by any labor organization; (ii) is a party to, or bound by, any consent decree with, or citation by, any Governmental Authority relating to employees or employment practices, not including any consent decree which has expired more than ten years prior to the date hereof, which, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect; or (iii) is the subject of any pending proceeding before any Governmental Authority asserting that it has committed an unfair labor practice or, to the knowledge of the Company, is seeking to compel it to bargain with any labor union or labor organization nor, as of the date of this Agreement, is there pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, any labor strike, dispute, walkout, work stoppage, slow-down or lockout involving the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries which, with respect to any event described in this clause (iii), individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.(b) In the 90-day period preceding the date of this Agreement, neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries has effectuated (i) a "plant closing" (as defined in the WARN Act), affecting any site of employment or one or more facilities or operating units within any site of employment or facility of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries, or (ii) a "mass layoff" (as defined in the WARN Act) affecting any site of employment or facility of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries; nor in such 90-day period has the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries been affected by any transaction or engaged in layoffs or employment terminations sufficient in number to trigger application of any state, local or foreign law or regulation similar to the WARN Act. The Company and the Company Subsidiaries have, during the five-year period prior to the date hereof, in all material respects properly classified each of their respective employees as employees, each of their respective leased employees (within the meaning of Section 414(n) of the Code) as leased employees, and each of its independent contractors as independent contractors, as applicable. As used in the Agreement, "" means the Workers Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act of 1989, as amended.
WARN Act
SECTION 2.16. . Neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries is (i) an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or (ii) a "holding company," a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company," an "affiliate" of a "holding company," or a public utility," as each such term is defined in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. Except as set forth on Section 2.16 of the Company Disclosure Letter, all pipeline systems and related facilities constituting the Company's and Company Subsidiaries' properties are (i) "gathering facilities" that are exempt from regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("") under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, as amended, and (ii) not subject to rate regulation or comprehensive nondiscriminatory access regulation under the laws of any state or other local jurisdiction.
Regulatory Matters
FERC
SECTION 2.17. . The Company has delivered to Parent true and correct copies of all proved oil and gas reserve reports prepared by the engineering firm Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. concerning the Oil and Gas Interests of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 (the ""). The factual, non-interpretative data on which the Company Reserve Report was based for purposes of estimating the oil and gas reserves set forth in the Company Reserve Report was accurate in all material
Reserve Reports
Company Reserve Report
 
respects, and the Company has no knowledge of any material errors in the assumptions and estimates provided to the Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. in connection with their preparation of the Company Reserve Report. To the knowledge of the Company, the estimates of proved oil and gas reserves in the Company Reserve Report were prepared in accordance with the definitions contained in Rule 4-10(a) of Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means interests in and rights with respect to oil, gas, mineral, and related properties and assets of any kind and nature, direct or indirect, including working, leasehold and mineral interests and operating rights and royalties, overriding royalties, production payments, net profit interests and other non-working interests and non-operating interests; Hydrocarbons and other minerals or revenues therefrom, all contracts in connection therewith and claims and rights thereto (including all oil and gas leases, operating agreements, unitization and pooling agreements and orders, division orders, transfer orders, mineral deeds, royalty deeds, oil and gas sales, exchange and processing contracts and agreements, and in each case, interests thereunder), surface interests, fee interests, reversionary interests, reservations, and concessions; all easements, rights of way, licenses, permits, leases, and other interests associated with, appurtenant to, or necessary for the operation of any of the foregoing; and all interests in equipment and machinery (including wells, well equipment and machinery), oil and gas production, gathering, transmission, treating, processing, and storage facilities (including tanks, tank batteries, pipelines, and gathering systems), pumps, water plants, electric plants, gasoline and gas processing plants, refineries, and other tangible personal property and fixtures associated with, appurtenant to, or necessary for the operation of any of the foregoing. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, with respect to any Person, crude oil, natural gas, casinghead gas, condensate, sulphur, natural gas liquids, plant products and other liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons produced in association therewith (including coalbed gas and carbon dioxide), and all other minerals of every kind and character which may be covered by or included in or attributable to any of the properties of such Person or any of such Person's Subsidiaries.
Oil and Gas Interests
Hydrocarbons
SECTION 2.18. . Except as set forth in Section 2.18 of the Company Disclosure Letter, the Company SEC Reports accurately summarize the outstanding Hydrocarbon and financial Hedging positions attributable to the production and marketing of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries as of the date reflected therein, and there have been no material changes since the date thereof to the date hereof. For purposes of this Agreement, a "" means a derivative transaction within the coverage of SFAS No. 133, including any swap transaction, option, warrant, forward purchase or sale transaction, futures transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction or collar transaction relating to one or more currencies, commodities, bonds, equity securities, loans, interest rates, credit-related events or conditions or any indexes, or any other similar transaction (including any option with respect to any of these transactions) or combination of any of these transactions, including collateralized mortgage obligations or other similar instruments or any debt or equity instruments evidencing or embedding any such types of transactions, and any related credit support, collateral, transportation or other similar arrangements related to such transactions.
Hedging
Hedge
SECTION 2.19. . All major items of operating equipment owned or leased by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries (i) are, in the aggregate, in a state of repair so as to be adequate in all material respects for reasonably prudent operations in the areas in which
Properties
 
they are operated and (ii) are adequate, together with all other properties of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, to comply in all material respects with the requirements of all applicable contracts, including sales contracts. Except for goods and other property sold, used or otherwise disposed of since December 31, 2005 in the ordinary course of business, as of the date hereof, the Company has good and defensible title (as defined below) for oil and gas properties forming the basis for the reserves reflected in the Company's December 31, 2005 financial statements included in the Company SEC Reports, and pipelines and gas gathering and processing systems, free and clear of any Lien, except: (a) Liens reflected in the balance sheet of the Company as of December 31, 2005 included in the Company SEC Reports; (b) Liens for current taxes not yet due and payable or for taxes that the Company or any Company Subsidiary is contesting in good faith through appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP; (c) Liens associated with obligations reflected in the Company Reserve Report and (d) such imperfections of title, easements and Liens that would not have or reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect. All leases and other agreements pursuant to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries leases or otherwise acquires or obtains operating rights affecting any real or personal property are valid and effective, except where the failure to be valid or effective would not have or reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect; and there is not, under any such leases, any existing or prospective default or event of default or event which with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries that would have or reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect. The Company has not received any material advance, take-or-pay or other similar payments that entitle purchasers of production to receive deliveries of Hydrocarbons without paying therefor, and, to the knowledge of the Company, on a net, company-wide basis, the Company is neither underproduced nor overproduced, in either case to any material extent, under gas balancing or similar arrangements. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means title that is free from reasonable doubt to the end that a prudent person engaged in the business of purchasing and owning, developing, and operating producing oil and gas properties in the geographical areas in which they are located, with knowledge of all of the facts and their legal bearing, would be willing to accept the same.
good and defensible title
SECTION 2.20. . Section 2.20 of the Company Disclosure Letter contains a true and complete list of all insurance policies held by either the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries. To the knowledge of the Company, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries maintain insurance (including self-insurance) coverage customary in the industry for the operation of their respective businesses (taking into account the cost and availability of such insurance). All such insurance policies from third party providers are in full force and effect and neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has received any notice of termination or cancellation with respect to any such policy
Insurance
SECTION 2.21. . Neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party to or bound by any agreement or other arrangement that materially limits or otherwise restricts the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any successor thereto, or that would, after the Effective Time, to the knowledge of the Company, materially limit or restrict Parent, the Surviving Corporation or any of their subsidiaries or any successor
Certain Contracts and Arrangements
 
thereto, from engaging or competing in its business in any significant geographic area, except for joint ventures, area of mutual interest agreements and non-competition agreements (substantially all of which, in the case of such non-competition agreements, are set forth in Section 2.21 of the Company Disclosure Letter) entered into in connection with prospect reviews and similar arrangements entered into in the ordinary course of business. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is in breach or default under any material contract (as defined in Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K of the SEC) to which the Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party or any contract set forth in Section 2.21 of the Company Disclosure Letter (which includes each material joint venture Hydrocarbon exploratory agreement to which the Company or any Company Subsidiary is a party) (collectively, the "") nor, to the knowledge of the Company, is any other party to any such Company Contract in material breach or material default thereunder.
Company Contracts
SECTION 2.22. . The Board of Directors of the Company has taken all action necessary to exempt under or not make subject to (a) the prohibitions on "business combinations" under Section 203 of the DGCL, (b) any other state takeover law or state law that purports to limit or restrict business combinations or the ability to acquire or vote shares or (c) any provision of the Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws that would require any corporate approval other than that otherwise required by Section 251 of the DGCL, in each case, before the execution of this Agreement and the Company Voting Agreements: (i) the execution of this Agreement, (ii) the Merger, (iii) the execution of the Company Voting Agreements and (iv) the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Merger. The Company has amended the Rights Agreement so that (a) none of Parent or Merger Sub nor any "affiliate" or "associate" thereof (as defined in the Rights Agreement) is an "Acquiring Person", and no "Stock Acquisition Date" or "Distribution Date" (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement) or event to which Section 11(a)(ii) or Section 13 thereof would otherwise be applicable will occur as a result of the execution or delivery of this Agreement, the Company Voting Agreements or the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Company Voting Agreements and (b) the Rights Agreement will terminate and the Company Rights will expire immediately prior to the Effective Time. The Rights Agreement, as so amended, has not been further amended or modified. True and complete copies of the Rights Agreement and all such amendments have been filed with the SEC, or, if not, provided to Parent.
Section 203 of the DGCL; Rights Agreement
SECTION 2.23. . Neither the Company, nor any Company Subsidiary or affiliate, has committed any act or made any omission prohibited by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (15 U.S.C.  78m, 78dd-1, -2 and -3) ("") or applicable anti-bribery laws of any other country during the past (3) three years. Except as otherwise permissible under the FCPA (but not inconsistent with other applicable law), during the past (3) three years, none of the Company, any Company Subsidiary or affiliate, or any representative thereof has offered or given anything of value to: (i) any foreign official, any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for political office; or (ii) any Person, while knowing that all or a portion of such thing of value will be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, to any foreign political party or official thereof, or to any candidate for foreign political office for the purpose of the following: (a) influencing any act or decision of such foreign official, political party, party
FCPA
FCPA
 
official, or candidate in his or its official capacity, inducing such foreign official, political party, party official, or candidate to do or omit to do any act in violation of the lawful duty of such foreign official, political party, party official, or candidate, or securing any improper advantage or (b) inducing such foreign official, political party, party official, or candidate to use his or its influence with a foreign government or instrumentality thereof to affect or influence any act or decision of such government or instrumentality, in order to assist the Company, any Company Subsidiary, or any of their respective affiliates, officers or directors, in obtaining or retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any Person. For purposes of this Section 2.23, "" means "knowing" or "knowledge" as such terms are defined in 15 U.S.C.  78m, 78dd-1, -2 and -3.
knowledge
SECTION 2.24. . The Company has amended its Bylaws so that the stockholders of the Company are not entitled, under any circumstances, to call a special meeting of the stockholders.
Bylaws
SECTION 2.25. . Neither the Company nor any other Person makes any other express or implied representation or warranty on behalf of the Company or the Company Subsidiaries other than as expressly set forth in this Article 2.
No Other Representation or Warranties
     Parent and Merger Sub hereby jointly and severally represent and warrant to the Company that:
SECTION 3.1. . Parent and each of the Subsidiaries of Parent (including Merger Sub) (the "") is a corporation, limited liability company or partnership duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize the concept of good standing) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all requisite power and authority to own, operate and lease its properties and to carry on its business as now conducted. Parent and each of the Parent Subsidiaries is duly qualified and/or licensed, as may be required, and in good standing in each of the jurisdictions (with respect to jurisdictions that recognize the concept of good standing) in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character of the property owned, leased or used by it makes such qualification and/or licensing necessary, except in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified and/or licensed, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. A "" means a material adverse effect on (i) the business, operations, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise or (ii) the ability of Parent or Merger Sub to perform their obligations under this Agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; , that any event, condition, change, occurrence or development of a state of circumstances which (A) adversely affects the oil and gas exploration and development industry generally (including changes in commodity prices, general market prices and legal or regulatory changes) (and in each case does not disproportionately affect Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries considered as a
Organization
Parent Subsidiaries
Parent Material Adverse Effect
provided, however
 
single enterprise as compared to similarly situated Persons), (B) arises out of general economic or industry conditions (and in each case does not disproportionately affect Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise as compared to similarly situated Persons), (C) arises out of any change in GAAP (which does not disproportionately affect the Parent and the Parent Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise as compared to similarly situated Persons) or (D) (other than with respect to ) arise out of, result from or relate to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the announcement thereof, shall not be considered in determining whether a Parent Material Adverse Effect has occurred. The copies of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Parent which are incorporated by reference as exhibits to Parent's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 are complete and correct copies of such documents and contain all amendments thereto as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.2
SECTION 3.2. .
Authorization; No Conflict
          (a) Each of Parent and Merger Sub has the requisite corporate power and authority to enter into and deliver this Agreement and to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent and Merger Sub, the performance by Parent and Merger Sub of their respective obligations hereunder and the consummation by Parent and Merger Sub of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by the respective Boards of Directors of each of Parent and Merger Sub, and no other corporate proceedings on the part of Parent, Merger Sub or any of the Parent Subsidiaries are necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the performance by Parent and Merger Sub of their respective obligations hereunder and the consummation by Parent and Merger Sub of the transactions contemplated hereby other than the adoption of this Agreement by Parent as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Parent and Merger Sub and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Parent and Merger Sub, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that its enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization or other laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles.
          (b) The Board of Directors of Parent has, by resolutions duly adopted by the requisite vote of the directors present at a meeting of such board duly called and held on June 22, 2006 and not subsequently rescinded or modified in any way, unanimously (i) approved this Agreement, the Merger and (ii) determined that this Agreement and Merger are in the best interest of Parent's stockholders. No vote of the holders of Parent common stock, par value $.10 per share, or other securities of Parent is necessary to consummate the Merger.
          (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent or Merger Sub, nor the consummation by Parent or Merger Sub of the transactions contemplated hereby nor compliance by Parent or Merger Sub with any of the provisions herein will (i) result in a violation or breach of or conflict with the certificate or articles of incorporation or bylaws of Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries, (ii) result in a violation or breach of or conflict with any provisions of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the termination, cancellation of, or give rise to a right of purchase under, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of
 
termination or acceleration under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets owned or operated by Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries under, or result in being declared void, voidable, or without further binding effect, or otherwise result in a detriment to Parent or any Parent Subsidiary under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, contract, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation of any kind to which Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries is a party or by which Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets may be bound or (iii) subject to obtaining or making the consents, approvals, orders, authorizations, registrations, declarations and filings referred to in paragraph (d) below, violate any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction, decree, statute, law (including the common law), rule or regulation applicable to Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets other than any such event described in items (ii) or (iii) which, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have or result in a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
          (d) No consent, approval, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any Governmental Authority is necessary to be obtained or made by Parent, any Parent Subsidiary or Merger Sub in connection with Parent's or Merger Sub's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation by Parent or Merger Sub of the transactions contemplated hereby, except for (i) compliance with the DGCL, with respect to the filing of the Certificate of Merger, (ii) compliance with the HSR Act, the Competition Act, and applicable foreign competition and antitrust laws, if any, (iii) the filing with the SEC of the Proxy Statement and such reports under Section 13(a), 13(d), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Exchange Act as may be required in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, (iv) compliance with the rules of the NYSE, (v) Customary Post Closing Consents, and (vi) such other consents, approvals, orders or authorizations of, or registrations, declarations or filings with, any Governmental Authority where the failure to obtain or take such action, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have or result in a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.3. . None of the information supplied or to be supplied by Parent specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to the Company's stockholders or at the time of the Company Stockholders Meeting contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. No representation or warranty is made by Parent with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by the Company specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement.
Information Supplied
SECTION 3.4. . Except for UBS Securities LLC, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Goldman, Sachs & Co., no agent, broker, Person or firm acting on behalf of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary or under Parent's or any Parent Subsidiary's authority is or will be entitled to any financial advisory, broker's or finder's fee or similar commission from any of the parties hereto in connection with any of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Broker's or Finder's Fees
 
SECTION 3.5. . Parent has or will have funds available to it sufficient to consummate the Merger in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Financing
SECTION 3.6. . Except for obligations incurred in connection with its incorporation or organization or the negotiation and consummation of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, Merger Sub has neither incurred any obligation or liability nor engaged in any business or activity of any type or kind whatsoever or entered into any agreement or arrangement with any Person.
No Prior Activities
SECTION 3.7. . None of Parent, Merger Sub or any other Person makes any other express or implied representation or warranty on behalf of Parent or Merger Sub other than as expressly set forth in this Article 3.
No Other Representation or Warranties
SECTION 4.1. . The Company covenants and agrees that, prior to the Effective Time, unless Parent shall otherwise consent in writing (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) or except as expressly permitted or required pursuant to this Agreement:
Conduct of Business by the Company Pending the Merger
          (a) The businesses of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries shall be conducted only in the ordinary and usual course of business and consistent with past practices, and the Company and the Company Subsidiaries shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to maintain and preserve intact their respective business organizations and to maintain significant beneficial business relationships with suppliers, contractors, distributors, customers, licensors, licensees and others having business relationships with them to keep available the services of their current key officers and employees; and
          (b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing , except as set forth in Section 4.1 of the Company Disclosure Letter, the Company shall not, and shall not permit any of the Company Subsidiaries to, do any of the following:
Section 4.1(a)
          (i) except pursuant to existing contracts or commitments, sell, lease, transfer or dispose of any assets, rights or securities that are material to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries or terminate, cancel, materially modify or enter into any material commitment, transaction or line of business, in each case outside of the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or, in the case of sales, leases, transfers or dispositions, in excess of $20 million in the aggregate;
          (ii) acquire by merging or consolidating with or by purchasing a substantial equity interest in or a substantial portion of the assets of, or by any other manner, any business, corporation, partnership, association or other business organization or division thereof;
 
          (iii) amend or propose to amend its certificate of incorporation or bylaws or, in the case of the Company Subsidiaries, their respective constituent documents;
          (iv) except for the Quarterly Dividend, and other than in the case of direct or indirect wholly owned Company Subsidiaries, declare, set aside or pay any dividend or other distribution payable in cash, capital stock, property or otherwise with respect to any             shares of its capital stock;
          (v) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, or offer to purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, any shares of its capital stock, other equity securities, other ownership interests or any options, warrants or rights to acquire any such stock, securities or interests, other than other than repurchases, redemptions or acquisitions in connection with the relinquishment of shares by employees and directors of the Company or as may be required by or in connection with the terms of any Company Stock Plan in effect as of the date hereof;
          (vi) split, combine or reclassify any outstanding shares of its capital stock;
          (vii) except for the Company Common Stock issuable upon exercise of options outstanding on the date hereof (or granted after the date hereof as permitted by this Agreement) and the vesting of restricted stock awards granted prior to the execution of this Agreement, issue, sell, dispose of or authorize, propose or agree to the issuance, sale or disposition by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries of, any shares of, or any options, warrants or rights of any kind to acquire any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for any shares of, its capital stock of any class, or any other securities in respect of, in lieu of, or in substitution for any class of its capital stock outstanding on the date hereof;
          (viii) modify in any material respect the terms of any existing indebtedness for borrowed money or security issued by the Company or any Company Subsidiary, provided that no such modifications may be made with respect to maturity, payment schedule, or prepayment penalties;
          (ix) incur any indebtedness for borrowed money, except indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business and letters of credit required under the Company's hedging agreements in order to satisfy margin requirements and other indebtedness of the Company (determined in accordance with GAAP) that does not exceed $5 million;
          (x) assume, guarantee, endorse or otherwise as an accommodation become responsible for, the indebtedness for borrowed money of any other Person other than in the ordinary course of business, or make any loans or advances, except (A) to or for the benefit of the Company Subsidiaries or customary loans or advances to employees or otherwise in the ordinary course of business or (B) for those not in excess of $5 million in the aggregate;
 
          (xi) create or assume any Lien on any material asset that would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect;
          (xii) (A) take any action with respect to the grant of or increase in any severance or termination pay to any current or former director, executive officer or employee of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, except as may be required in any existing agreements with employees or consultants of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, or as required by any collective bargaining agreement, (B) execute any employment, deferred compensation or other similar agreement (or any amendment to any such existing agreement) with any such director, executive officer or employee of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, (C) increase the benefits payable under any existing severance or termination pay policies or employment agreements, (D) increase the compensation, bonus or other benefits of current or former directors, executive officers or employees of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, (E) adopt or establish any new employee benefit plan or amend in any material respect any existing employee benefit plan, or (F) take any action that is likely to result in any plan, program or agreement becoming non-compliant with Section 409A or provide any employee entitlement to a tax gross-up or similar payment for any excise tax that may be due under Section 409A;
          (xiii) execute or amend (other than as required by existing employee benefit plans or employment agreements or by applicable law) in any material respect any employment, consulting, severance or indemnification agreement between the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries and any of their respective directors, officers, agents, consultants or employees, or any collective bargaining agreement or other obligation to any labor organization or employee incurred or entered into by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries (other than as required by existing employee benefit plans or employment agreements or by applicable law and other than the entry into agreements with consultants in the ordinary course of business cancelable on 60 days notice (or less) and requiring total payments in the aggregate of less than $2 million);
          (xiv) make any changes in its reporting for taxes or accounting methods other than as required by GAAP or applicable law; make or rescind any material Tax election or file any material amended Tax return; make any material change to its method or reporting income, deductions, or other Tax items for Tax purposes; settle or compromise any material Tax liability or enter into any transaction with an affiliate outside the ordinary course of business if such transaction would give rise to a tax liability;
          (xv) settle, compromise or otherwise resolve any pending litigation or other legal proceedings involving a payment of more than $500,000 in any one case by or to the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries;
          (xvi) other than in the ordinary course of business, pay or discharge any claims, Liens or liabilities involving more than $5 million individually or $10 million in
 
the aggregate, which are not reserved for or reflected on the balance sheets included in the Company Financial Statements;
          (xvii) write off any accounts or notes receivable in excess of $10 million;
          (xviii) except pursuant to existing contracts or commitments, make or commit to make capital expenditures in excess of 110% of the aggregate budgeted amount set forth in the Company's fiscal 2006 capital expenditure plan previously provided to Parent, except as may be required to (A) continue operations on the drilling, completion or plugging of any well or any well operations for which the Company has consented to participate and is required to continue to participate pursuant to applicable agreements or (B) conduct emergency operations on any well pipeline or other facility;
          (xix) make or assume any Hedges intended to benefit from or reduce or eliminate the risk of fluctuations in the price of commodities, including Hydrocarbons or securities, other than in the ordinary course of the Company's marketing business in accordance with the Company's current policies;
          (xx) enter into new contracts to sell Hydrocarbons other than in the ordinary course of business at market pricing, but in no event any having a duration longer than nine months;
          (xxi) fail to timely meet its royalty payment obligations in connection with its oil and gas leases to the extent such failure has or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect;
          (xxii) enter into any agreement, arrangement or commitment that materially limits or otherwise restricts the Company or any Company Subsidiary, or that would reasonably be expected to, after the Effective Time, materially limit or restrict Parent or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective affiliates or any successor thereto, from engaging or competing in any line of business in which it is currently engaged or in any geographic area material to the business or operations of Parent or any of its Subsidiaries;
          (xxiii) terminate, amend, modify or waive, including the release of any third party from, any provision of any confidentiality or standstill agreement to which it is a party, and the Company and Company Subsidiaries shall enforce any such provisions contained in such agreements, including by obtaining injunctions to prevent any breaches of such agreement;
          (xxiv) take any action that would constitute a "plant closing" or "mass layoff" (each as defined in the WARN Act or any similar state law or regulation) without in good faith attempting to comply with the notice requirements of the WARN Act or similar state law or regulation;
          (xxv) organize or acquire any Person that could become a Subsidiary;
 
          (xxvi) enter into any commitment or agreement to license or purchase seismic data that will cost in excess of $2,000,000, other than pursuant to agreements or commitments existing on the date hereof;
          (xxvii) amend, modify or waive any provision of the Rights Agreement or take any action to redeem the Company Rights or render the Company Rights inapplicable to any transaction other than the Merger unless, and only to the extent that, the Company is required to do so by order of a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority;
          (xxviii) grant approval for purposes of Section 203 of the DGCL of any "business combination" or any acquisition of "voting stock" of the Company, each as defined in Section 203 of the DGCL;
          (xxix) adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation, dissolution, or reorganization;
          (xxx) except as permitted by , knowingly take, or agree to commit to take, any action that would or would reasonably be expected to result in the failure of the conditions set forth in at, or as of any time prior to, the Effective Time; or
Section 5.8
Section 6.2
          (xxxi) take or agree in writing or otherwise to take any of the actions precluded by or .
Sections 4.1(a)
(b)
SECTION 4.2. . Except as expressly permitted or required by this Agreement, prior to the Effective Time, neither Parent nor any of its Subsidiaries, without the prior written consent of the Company, shall:
Conduct of Business by Parent
          (a) adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation or dissolution of Parent;
          (b) knowingly take, or agree to commit to take, any action that would or would reasonably be expected to result in the failure of a condition set forth in or at, or as of any time prior to, the Effective Time; or
Section 6.3(a)
(b)
          (c) take or agree in writing or otherwise to take any of the actions precluded by or .
Section 4.2(a)
(b)
SECTION 5.1. .
Preparation of Proxy Statement; Stockholders Meetings
          (a) As soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, the Company shall prepare and use its reasonable best efforts to, by July 7, 2006, in any event by July 10, 2007, file with the SEC the Proxy Statement. Parent, Merger Sub and the Company will cooperate with each other in the preparation of the Proxy Statement; without limiting the
 
generality of the foregoing, Parent and Merger Sub, on the one hand, and the Company, on the other hand, will furnish to each other the information relating to the party furnishing such information required by the Exchange Act to be set forth in the Proxy Statement, and Company and its counsel shall be given the opportunity to review and comment on the Proxy Statement prior to the filing thereof with the SEC. The Company agrees to use its reasonable best efforts, after consultation with the other parties hereto, to respond promptly to any comments made by the SEC with respect to the Proxy Statement. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Proxy Statement to be mailed to its stockholders as promptly as practicable. No filing of, or amendment or supplement (including by incorporation by reference) to, or correspondence to the SEC or its staff with respect to the Proxy Statement will be made by the Company, without the approval of Parent, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; that with respect to documents filed by a party which are incorporated by reference in the Proxy Statement, this right of approval shall apply only with respect to information relating to the other party or its business, financial condition or results of operations, or this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby; , , that the Company, in connection with a Change in the Company Recommendation (as defined in ) or a Non-Takeover-Related Change of Recommendation (as defined in ), may amend or supplement the Proxy Statement (including by incorporation by reference) pursuant to a Qualifying Amendment (as defined below) to disclose such a change, and in such event, this right of approval shall apply only with respect to information relating to this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby, or the other party or its business, financial condition or results of operations. A "" means an amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement (including by incorporation by reference) to the extent it contains (i) a Change in the Company Recommendation or a Non-Takeover-Related Change of Recommendation, (ii) a statement of the reasons of the Board of Directors of the Company for making such Change in the Company Recommendation or Non-Takeover-Related Change of Recommendation and (iii) additional information reasonably related to the foregoing. The Company will advise Parent promptly after it receives notice of any request by the SEC for amendment of the Proxy Statement or comments thereon and responses thereto or requests by the SEC for additional information. If at any time prior to the Effective Time any information relating to the Company or Parent, or any of their respective affiliates, officers or directors, should be discovered by the Company or Parent which should be set forth in an amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement, so that any of such documents would not include any misstatement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, the party which discovers such information shall promptly notify the other parties hereto and an appropriate amendment or supplement describing such information shall be promptly filed with the SEC and, to the extent required by law, disseminated to the stockholders of the Company.
provided
provided
further
Section 5.8(a)
Section 5.1(d)
Qualifying Amendment
          (b) The Company shall, as soon as practicable after the date hereof, and in accordance with the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable law, establish a record date (which will be as soon as practicable after the date hereof) for, duly call, give notice of, convene and hold a meeting of its stockholders (the "") solely for the purpose of considering and taking action upon this Agreement regardless of whether the Board of Directors of the Company determines at any time that this Agreement or the Merger is no longer advisable or recommends that the stockholders of the
Company Stockholders Meeting
 
Company reject this Agreement or the Merger. Once the Company Stockholders Meeting has been called and noticed, the Company shall not postpone or adjourn the Company Stockholders Meeting without the consent of Parent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed (other than (i) for the absence of a quorum or (ii) to allow reasonable additional time for the filing and mailing of any supplemental or amended disclosure which it believes in good faith is necessary under applicable law and for such supplemental or amended disclosure to be disseminated and reviewed by the Company's stockholders prior to the Company Stockholders Meeting); that if the Company Stockholders Meeting is delayed to a date after the Termination Date (as defined in ) as a result of either (i) or (ii) above, then the Termination Date shall be extended to the fifth Business Day after such date. The Board of Directors of the Company shall declare that this Agreement and the Merger are advisable and in the best interests of the Company and recommend that this Agreement be adopted by the stockholders of the Company and include in the Proxy Statement a copy of such recommendations; that the Board of Directors of the Company may withdraw, modify or change such recommendation if but only if (i) it has complied with all of its obligations under and believes in good faith, taking into account all relevant factors, including those set forth in the definition of Superior Proposal in , and after receiving the advice of the Company's financial advisors and outside counsel, that a Superior Proposal has been made and (ii) it has determined in good faith, after consultation with outside counsel, that withdrawal, modification or change of such recommendation is required by the Board of Directors to comply with its fiduciary duties under applicable law. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to solicit from stockholders of the Company proxies in favor of the adoption of this Agreement and shall take all other action necessary or advisable to secure the vote or consent of stockholders required by applicable law to effect the Merger.
provided
Section 7.1(b)
provided
Section 5.8
Section 5.8(b)
          (c) Notwithstanding anything contained in this to the contrary, the Company agrees that its obligations pursuant to this shall not be affected by the commencement, public proposal or communication to the Company of any Takeover Proposal. Notwithstanding the receipt by the Company of a Superior Proposal, unless Parent terminates this Agreement under , then prior to the termination of this Agreement taking effect under , the Company shall be obligated to comply with and the other terms of this Agreement, including by holding the Company Stockholders Meeting, except that the Company shall not be required to hold the Company Stockholders Meeting if the Company has terminated this Agreement under and paid to Parent the Termination Fee contemplated thereby. If (x) a Takeover Proposal shall have been made or shall have otherwise become publicly known or any Person shall have publicly announced an intention (whether or not conditional) to make a Takeover Proposal, (y) the Company's Board of Directors withdraws, modifies or changes its recommendation of this Agreement or the Merger in a manner adverse to Parent or resolves to do any of the foregoing or the Company's Board of Directors recommends to the Company's stockholders any Takeover Proposal or resolves to do so, and (z) the Required Company Stockholder Vote is not secured at such meeting, then at such time this Agreement shall be deemed to be terminated by the Company under . The Company shall pay to Parent the Termination Fee as provided in .
Section 5.1
Section 5.1
Section 7.1(f)
Section 7.1(f)
Section 5.1(b)
Section 7.1(g)
Section 7.1(f)
Section 7.3
          (d) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prohibit the Company's Board of Directors from failing to make, or from withdrawing or modifying, its recommendation that
 
this Agreement be adopted by the Company's stockholders in circumstances where no Takeover Proposal is or has been outstanding (a "") if the Company's Board of Directors determines in its good faith judgment, after consultation with its outside legal counsel, that it is required to take such action in order to comply with its fiduciary duties under applicable law.
Non-Takeover-Related Change of Recommendation
          (e) The Company acknowledges and agrees that Parent would be damaged irreparably if any provision of this is not performed in accordance with its specific terms or is otherwise breached. Accordingly, the Company agrees that Parent will be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this and to enforce specifically this Agreement and its terms and provisions in any action or proceeding instituted in the Delaware Court of Chancery in accordance with , in addition to any other remedy to which Parent may be entitled, at law or in equity.
Section 5.1
Section 5.1
Section 8.4
SECTION 5.2. . From and after the Effective Time, Parent and the Surviving Corporation shall have the rights and obligations described in this regarding the individuals who were employees of the Company immediately prior to the Effective Time ("").
Employee Benefit Matters
Section 5.2
Acquired Employees
          (a) . All Acquired Employees shall be employed solely on an "at will" basis, except to the extent required by the provisions of written employment contracts or as required by applicable law. An Acquired Employee whose employment is terminated ceases immediately to be an "Acquired Employee" for purposes of this Agreement.
Employment
          (b) . The Surviving Corporation shall assume the Company Employee Benefit Plans as of the Effective Time and operate such plans in accordance with their respective terms, and the Company shall take any steps necessary to permit such assumption. Subject to the obligations set forth in , Acquired Employees shall continue after the Effective Time to participate in such assumed Company Employee Benefit Plans and at such time as determined by Parent or the Surviving Corporation with Parent's approval, Acquired Employees shall participate in Parent's compensation, severance, bonus, stock option and other incentive plans for which they are eligible pursuant to the terms and conditions of such plans, or in similar plans maintained by the Surviving Corporation, in each case consistent with the participation offered to Parent's employees holding similar positionsEach such plan shall grant credit to each Acquired Employee for all service prior to the Effective Time with the Company (including any predecessors) to the same extent recognized by the Company immediately prior to the Effective Time for purposes of vesting and eligibility (including eligibility for participation and levels of benefits) but, except as explicitly set forth in the terms of any Parent or Surviving Corporation plan, not for (i) purposes of benefit accrual under any defined benefit "pension plan" as defined in ERISA section 3(2) (including nonqualified defined benefit pension plans) or (ii) benefits under retiree medical plans. No Acquired Employee shall be simultaneously covered under similar employee benefit plans of Parent or the Surviving Corporation and of the Company. Nothing in this shall restrict in any manner the right of Parent or the Surviving Corporation to amend or terminate any assumed Company Employee Benefit Plan or to modify any compensation arrangement of any Acquired Employee for any reason at any time (in each case subject to the provisions of any Company Employee Benefit Plan).
Benefit Plans
Section 5.2(d)
.
Section 5.2
 
          (c) . On and after the Effective Time occurs, any group health plan established or maintained by Parent or the Surviving Corporation shall, with respect to any eligible Acquired Employee or, as applicable, a family member of an eligible Acquired Employee, (i) waive any waiting period, (ii) waive any exclusion or limitation for preexisting conditions which were covered under any group health plan maintained by the Company prior to the Effective Time, (iii) grant credit (for purposes of annual deductibles, co-payments and out-of-pocket limits) for any covered claims incurred or payments made prior to the Effective Time, and (iv) accept rollovers of the health flexible spending account and dependent care accounts of eligible Acquired Employees.
Group Health Plans
          (d) . During the one-year period following the Effective Time, Parent shall, or shall cause the Surviving Corporation to, provide to each Acquired Employee for so long as the Acquired Employee remains so employed, compensation and employee benefits that, with respect to each employee, are substantially as favorable in the aggregate to the compensation and benefits provided to such employee under the Company Employee Benefit Plans immediately prior to the Effective Time (including payment by the Parent or the Surviving Corporation of bonuses in respect of 2006 performance that are substantially as favorable as the bonuses that would have been paid to the Acquired Employee under the applicable Company Employee Benefit Plan).
Compensation
          (e) . During the one year period following the Effective Time, Parent shall provide, or shall cause the Surviving Corporation to provide each Acquired Employee with severance payments and severance benefits, if any, contemplated by Schedule 5.2(e).
Severance
SECTION 5.3. .
Consents and Approvals
          (a) Subject to the requirements of applicable antitrust laws, the Company, Parent and Merger Sub shall each, as promptly as practicable after the date of this Agreement, file or cause to be filed with (i) the Federal Trade Commission and the United States Department of Justice any notifications required to be filed under the HSR Act and any supplemental information which may be required in connection therewith; and (ii) the Competition Bureau any notifications required to be filed under the Competition Act with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and any supplemental information which may be required in connection therewith; and (iii) the Investment Review Division of Industry Canada an application for review required to be filed under the Investment Canada Act and any supplemental information which may be required in connection therewith]. The parties shall use reasonable best efforts to respond promptly to any requests for additional information made by either of such agencies, and to cause the waiting periods under the HSR Act and the Competition Act to terminate or expire at the earliest possible date after the date of filing. No party shall agree to participate in any meeting with any Governmental Authority in respect of any such filings, investigation or other inquiries unless it consults with the other party in advance, and to the extent permitted by such Governmental Authority, gives the other party the opportunity to attend and participate thereat.
          (b) Subject to the requirements of applicable antitrust laws, except with respect to the actions and filings described in clause (a) above, the Company, Parent and Merger
 
Sub shall cooperate with each other to (i) promptly prepare and file all necessary documentation, (ii) effect all necessary applications, notices, petitions and filings, (iii) use all their reasonable best efforts, in each case, to obtain all permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all Governmental Authorities necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Subject to the requirements of applicable antitrust laws, the Company, Parent and Merger Sub shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all necessary consents, approvals and authorizations of all other parties necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or required by the terms of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, franchise, permit, concession, contract, lease or other instrument to which the Company, Merger Sub, Parent or any of their respective Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound; , , that no note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, franchise, permit, concession, contract, lease or other instrument shall be amended or modified to increase in any material respect the amount payable thereunder or to be otherwise more burdensome, or less favorable, in each case in any material respect, to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise in order to obtain any permit, consent, approval or authorization without first obtaining the written consent of Parent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. The Company shall have the right to review and approve in advance all characterizations of the information relating to the Company; Parent shall have the right to review and approve in advance all characterizations of the information relating to Parent or Merger Sub such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed; and each of the Company and Parent shall have the right to review and approve in advance all characterizations of the information relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, in each case which appear in any material filing (including the Proxy Statement) made in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company, Parent and Merger Sub agree that they will consult with each other with respect to the obtaining of all such necessary Permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all third parties and Governmental Authorities.
provided
however
SECTION 5.4. . The Company, Parent and Merger Sub shall consult with each other prior to issuing, and provide each other with the opportunity to review and comment upon, any public announcement, statement or other disclosure with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby and shall not issue any such public announcement or statement prior to such consultation, except as may be required by law or any listing agreement with a national securities exchange or trading market.
Public Statements
SECTION 5.5. . Subject to the terms and conditions provided herein, each of the Company, Parent and Merger Sub agrees to use all commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all action, and to do, or cause to be done, all things reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws and regulations to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including obtaining all consents, approvals and authorizations required for or in connection with the consummation by the parties hereto of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and, only if Parent and the Company mutually agree, contesting and resisting of any action, including any legislative, administrative or judicial action, and seeking to have vacated, lifted, reversed or overturned, any decree, judgment, injunction or other order (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) that restricts, prevents or prohibits the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. In
Further Assurances
 
the event any litigation is commenced by any Person involving the Company or its directors and relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including any other Takeover Proposal (as defined in ), Parent shall have the right, at its own expense, to participate therein. In addition, in connection with filings made by Parent with the SEC in connection with financings associated with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Company hereby consents to the inclusion of its financial statements to the extent reasonably necessary in such filings, agrees to reasonably assist Parent in connection with the preparation of any related required pro forma financial statements and will use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Company's independent public accountants to provide a consent to the inclusion of their report to such financial statements in such filings and to provide Parent a "comfort" letter dated a date within two Business Days before the date on which such filings shall become effective and addressed to Parent, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent and customary in scope and substance for letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with any such filings.
Section 5.8(b)
SECTION 5.6. . The Company agrees to give prompt notice to Parent and Merger Sub of the occurrence or failure to occur, or the impending occurrence or failure to occur, of any event which occurrence or failure to occur would be reasonably likely to cause the failure of any of the conditions set forth in ; , , that the delivery of any notice pursuant to this shall not limit or otherwise affect the remedies available hereunder to the party receiving such notice. Each of Parent and Merger Sub agrees to give prompt notice to the Company of the occurrence or failure to occur, or the impending occurrence or failure to occur, of any event which occurrence or failure to occur would be reasonably likely to cause the failure of any of the conditions set forth in ; , , that the delivery of any notice pursuant to this shall not limit or otherwise affect the remedies available hereunder to the party receiving such notice.
Notification of Certain Matters
Section 6.2
provided
however
Section 5.6
Section 6.3
provided
however
Section 5.6
SECTION 5.7. .
Access to Information; Confidentiality
          (a) Subject to the Company's reasonable determination regarding limitations required by applicable law or contractual arrangements, the Company shall, and shall cause the Company Subsidiaries and the officers, directors, employees and agents of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, to, afford the officers, employees and agents of Parent and Merger Sub, at their sole cost and risk, reasonable access at all reasonable times during normal business hours from the date hereof through the Effective Time to its officers, employees, agents, properties, facilities, books, records, contracts and other assets and shall furnish Parent and Merger Sub all financial, operating and other data and information as Parent and Merger Sub through their officers, employees or agents, may reasonably request. Parent and Merger Sub, at their sole cost and risk, may make such due diligence investigations as Parent and Merger Sub shall deem necessary or reasonable, upon reasonable notice to the Company and without disruption or damage to Company's operations or properties; , that the Company shall not be required to provide any such information if the provision of such information would be reasonably likely to cause a waiver of an attorney-client privilege. No additional investigations or disclosures shall affect the Company's representations and warranties contained herein, or limit or otherwise affect the remedies available to Parent and Merger Sub pursuant to this Agreement.
provided
however,
 
          (b) The provisions of the Confidentiality Agreement, dated May 22, 2006 between Parent and the Company (the "") shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
Company Confidentiality Agreement
SECTION 5.8. .
No Solicitation
          (a) The Company agrees that from the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time or, if earlier, the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, the Company shall not, and the Company shall cause its Company Subsidiaries and its and their respective officers, directors, investment bankers, attorneys and other advisors and representatives not to (i) solicit, initiate, or encourage the submission of, any Takeover Proposal (as hereinafter defined), (ii) approve or recommend any Takeover Proposal, enter into any agreement, agreement-in-principle or letter of intent with respect to or accept any Takeover Proposal (or resolve to or publicly propose to do any of the foregoing), or (iii) participate or engage in any discussions or negotiations regarding, or furnish to any Person any information with respect to, or knowingly take any action to facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes, or would reasonably be expected to lead to, any Takeover Proposal; , , that
provided
however
     (x) nothing contained in subclauses (i) or (ii) above shall prohibit the Company or its Board of Directors from disclosing to the Company's stockholders a position with respect to a tender or exchange offer by a third party pursuant to Rules 14d-9 and 14e-2 promulgated under the Exchange Act or from making any similar disclosure, if, in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Company (after consultation with outside counsel) failure so to disclose would violate its obligations under applicable law; , , that any such disclosure relating to a Takeover Proposal (other than a "stop-look-and-listen" communication to the Company's stockholders pursuant to Rule 14d-9(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act) shall be deemed to be a Change in the Company Recommendation (defined below) unless the Board of Directors of the Company reaffirms the Company Recommendation in such disclosure, and provided further that the Board of Directors of the Company shall not recommend that the stockholders of the Company tender their Company Common Stock in connection with any such tender or exchange offer unless the Board of Directors of the Company determines in good faith (after consultation with its financial advisor and outside legal counsel) that such Takeover Proposal is a Superior Proposal and shall have complied with all of its obligations under ;
provided
however
Section 5.8
     (y) if (under circumstances in which the Company has complied with all of its obligations under this ), prior to this Agreement having been adopted by the Required Company Stockholder Vote, the Company receives an unsolicited written Takeover Proposal from a third party that the Board of Directors of the Company determines in good faith (after consultation with its financial advisor and outside legal counsel) is, or is reasonably likely to result in, a Superior Proposal, the Company and its representatives may conduct such additional discussions and provide such information as the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine, but only if, prior to such provision of such
Section 5.8(a)
 
information or conduct of such additional discussions (A) such third party shall have entered into a confidentiality agreement in customary form that is no less favorable to the Company, including any standstill provisions included therein, and no less restrictive as the Company Confidentiality Agreement (and containing additional provisions that expressly permit the Company to comply with the provisions of this )), and (B) the Board of Directors of the Company determines in its good faith judgment, after consultation with outside legal counsel, that it is required to do so in order to comply with its fiduciary duties under applicable law; and
Section 5.8
     (z) at any time prior to this Agreement having been approved by the Required Company Stockholder Vote, and subject to the Company's compliance with its obligations under this the Company's Board of Directors may (i) withdraw, amend, modify or qualify, or publicly propose to withdraw, amend, modify or qualify the recommendation, approval, adoption or declaration of advisability by the Company's Board of Directors of this Agreement, the Merger or the Company Recommendation (collectively, a "") (which shall not include a Non-Takeover-Related Change of Recommendation) and recommend, or publicly propose to recommend any Takeover Proposal, or (ii) to the extent permitted pursuant to and in compliance with or , authorize the Company to enter into a binding written agreement concerning a transaction that constitutes a Superior Proposal, in the case of either subclause (i) or (ii) of this clause (z) only after the Board of Directors of the Company determines (A) in good faith (after receiving the advice of its financial advisor and outside legal counsel) that such Takeover Proposal is a Superior Proposal and (B) in its good faith judgment, after consultation with outside legal counsel, that it is required to do so in order to comply with its fiduciary duties under applicable law.
Section 5.8(a),
Change in the Company Recommendation
Section 7.1(f)
Section 7.1(g)
The Company shall immediately cease and cause to be terminated and shall cause its affiliates and the Company Subsidiaries and its or their respective officers, directors, employees, representatives and agents, to terminate all existing discussions or negotiations, if any, with any Persons conducted heretofore with respect to, or that could reasonably be expected to lead to, a Takeover Proposal and will cause any such parties (and their agents or advisors) in possession of confidential information regarding the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries to return or destroy such information.
          (b) For purposes of this Agreement, (i) "" shall mean any inquiry, proposal or offer from any Person (other than Parent, Merger Sub or any of their affiliates) relating to (A) any acquisition, merger, consolidation, reorganization, share exchange, recapitalization, liquidation, direct or indirect business combination, asset acquisition or other similar transaction involving the Company or any Company Subsidiary of (x) assets or businesses that constitute or represent 10% or more of the total revenue, operating income, EBITDAX or assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole immediately prior to such transaction, or (y) 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Company or capital stock of, or other equity or voting
Takeover Proposal
 
interests in, any of the Company's Subsidiaries whose business constitutes 10% or more of the total revenue, operating income, EBITDAX or assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole immediately prior to such transaction in each case other than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or (B) any purchase or sale of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, capital stock of the Company or any Company Subsidiary that if consummated would result in any Person beneficially owning 10% or more of any class of capital stock of the Company or any Company Subsidiary whose business constitutes 10% or more of the total revenue, operating income, EBITDAX or assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole immediately prior to such transaction, (ii) the term "" means any Takeover Proposal containing price and other material terms and conditions that is either written or publicly disclosed by the Company, (iii) the term "" means any written Takeover Proposal to effect a merger, consolidation, reorganization, share exchange, tender offer, recapitalization, liquidation, direct or indirect business combination, or other similar transaction as a result of which the Company's stockholders (in their former capacities as Company stockholders) cease to own at least 80% of the voting securities of the ultimate parent entity resulting from such transaction or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, which in any such case is on terms that the Board of Directors of the Company determines in its good faith judgment (after consultation with its financial advisor and outside counsel), taking into account all relevant factors, including any conditions to such Takeover Proposal, the timing of the closing thereof, the risk of nonconsummation, any required governmental or other consents, filings and approvals, (A) would, if consummated, result in a transaction that is more favorable to the Company's stockholders from a financial point of view than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including the terms of any proposal by Parent to modify the terms of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement) and (B) is reasonably likely to be financed and otherwise completed without undue delay and (iv) the term "" means any Superior Proposal in which the consideration payable to the Company's stockholders or the Company, as the case may be, is 100% cash.
Bona Fide Takeover Proposal
bona fide
Superior Proposal
bona fide
Cash Superior Proposal
          (c) Except as expressly permitted by or , neither the Board of Directors of the Company nor any committee thereof shall effect any Change in the Company Recommendation, or approve or recommend, or propose publicly to approve or recommend, any Takeover Proposal. For purposes of this Agreement, a Change in the Company Recommendation shall include any approval or recommendation (or public proposal to approve or recommend) by the Board of Directors of the Company of a Takeover Proposal. The term "" means, subsequent to the making of a Bona Fide Takeover Proposal and within ten Business Days following a request by Parent to do so, (i) a public and unconditional reaffirmation by the Board of Directors of the Company of its recommendation in favor of this Agreement and the Merger to the Company's stockholders and (ii) a public recommendation by the Board of Directors of the Company against such Bona Fide Takeover Proposal, except that (A) with respect to any Bona Fide Takeover Proposal made by a person, entity or group that has already made a Bona Fide Takeover Proposal, such Recommendation Against a Takeover Proposal must be made within two calendar days of such request, and (B) with respect to any Bona Fide Takeover Proposal made within ten Business Days (but more than five calendar days) of the planned date of the Company Stockholder Meeting, such Recommendation Against a Takeover Proposal must be made within the greater of (1) four calendar days of such request or (2) one-half of the number of calendar days between
Section 5.1
Section 5.8(a)
Recommendation Against a Takeover Proposal
 
such request and the planned date of the Company Stockholder Meeting, with half calendar days being rounded down; , , that, with respect to any Bona Fide Takeover Proposal made within four calendar days (or, with respect to a Bona Fide Takeover Proposal described in clause (A) above, one calendar day) of the planned date of the Company Stockholder Meeting, the Company's Board of Directors will be deemed to have made a Recommendation Against a Takeover Proposal for all purposes under this Agreement (including Section 7.3(c)).
provided
however
          (d) In addition to the other obligations of the Company set forth in this, the Company shall promptly (and in any event, within 24 hours) advise Parent orally and in writing of any Takeover Proposal, any request for information with respect to any Takeover Proposal, or any inquiry with respect to or which could result in a Takeover Proposal, the material terms and conditions of such request, Takeover Proposal or inquiry, and the identity of the Person making the same and shall promptly provide Parent with a copy of any written request or Takeover Proposal or other document relating to a Takeover Proposal. The Company will keep Parent promptly and fully informed of the status and details (including amendments) of any such request, Takeover Proposal or inquiry and shall promptly provide Parent with a copy of any non-public information furnished to the Person making such request, Takeover Proposal or inquiry. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be required to provide any confidential information to Parent (i) with respect to the business, assets or operations of the person, entity or group making the Takeover Proposal, or (ii) to the extent the Board of Directors of the Company determines in its good faith judgment, after consultation with its outside legal counsel, that it may not provide all or part of such confidential information in order to comply with its fiduciary duties under applicable law, provided that the Company's Board of Directors may not claim that a condition in a Takeover Proposal that such confidential information not be provided to Parent is a basis for refusing to provide such information because doing so would breach such fiduciary standard.
Section 5.8
SECTION 5.9. .
Indemnification and Insurance
          (a) Parent and Merger Sub agree that all rights to indemnification by the Company now existing in favor of each person who is now, or has been at any time prior to the date hereof or who becomes prior to the Effective Time an officer, director, employee or agent of the Company or any Company Subsidiary or who acts as a fiduciary under any of the Company Employee Benefit Plans (each an "") as provided in the Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws, in each case as in effect on the date of this Agreement, or pursuant to any other agreements in effect on the date hereof, copies of which have been provided to Parent, including provisions relating to the advancement of expenses incurred in the defense of any action or suit, shall survive the Merger and shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their terms.
Indemnified Party
          (b) For ten years after the Effective Time (subject to the last sentence of this ), to the fullest extent permitted under applicable law, Parent shall, and shall cause the Surviving Corporation to, and the Surviving Corporation shall, indemnify, defend and hold harmless each Indemnified Party who on or prior to the Effective Time were officers or directors of the Company or the Company Subsidiaries (collectively, the "") against all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, fees, expenses, judgments and fines arising in whole or in part out of actions or omissions in their capacity as such occurring at or prior to the Effective
Section 5.9(b)
D&O Indemnitees
 
Time, and will reimburse each D&O Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted under applicable law for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such D&O Indemnitee in connection with investigating or defending any such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, fees, expenses, judgments and fines as such expenses are incurred; that nothing herein shall impair any rights to indemnification of any Indemnified Party referred to in clause (a) above. Such rights shall not be amended, or otherwise modified in any manner that would adversely affect the rights of the D&O Indemnitees, unless such modification is required by law. In the event notice of any claim for indemnification or reimbursement of expenses under this shall have been made within the ten-year period referred to the first sentence of this and such claim has not been finally resolved by the expiration of such ten-year period, the obligations set forth in this shall survive until such claim is finally resolved.
provided
Section 5.9(b)
Section 5.9(b)
Section 5.9(b)
          (c) Parent shall cause the Surviving Corporation to maintain the Company's officers' and directors' liability insurance policies, in effect on the date of this Agreement (the ""), for a period of not less than six years after the Effective Time, with no less coverage and amounts and containing terms no less advantageous to the Company's directors and officers currently covered by policies in effect on the date hereof, but only to the extent related to actions or omissions at or prior to the Effective Time (, , that, if the D&O Insurance expires, is terminated or is canceled during such six-year period, Parent shall, or shall cause the Surviving Corporation to, obtain officers' and directors' liability insurance covering such acts or omissions with respect to each such Person of at least the same coverage and amounts and containing terms no less advantageous to the Company's directors and officers currently covered by the D&O Insurance); , that (i) the Surviving Corporation may substitute therefor policies for the exclusive benefit of those Persons who are currently covered by the D&O Insurance from a financially sound and nationally reputable carrier of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms no less advantageous to such Persons and (ii) such substitution shall not result in gaps or lapses of coverage with respect to matters occurring at or prior to the Effective Time; , , that in no event shall Parent or the Surviving Corporation be required to expend more than an amount per year equal to 200% of current annual premiums paid by the Company for such insurance (the "") to maintain or procure insurance coverage pursuant hereto; , , that if the amount of the annual premiums necessary to maintain or procure such insurance coverage exceeds the Maximum Amount, Parent and the Surviving Corporation shall procure and maintain for such six-year period as much coverage as reasonably practicable for the Maximum Amount. Parent shall have the right to cause coverage to be extended under the Company's D&O Insurance by obtaining and causing to be maintained a six-year "tail" policy of at least the same coverage and amounts and containing terms no less advantageous to the Company's directors and officers currently covered by the D&O Insurance than the Company's existing D&O Insurance, and such "tail" policy shall satisfy the provisions of this for so long as it remains in effect for such six-year period.
D&O Insurance
provided
however
provided
provided
further
Maximum Amount
provided
further
Section 5.9(c)
          (d) The obligations of Parent and the Surviving Corporation under this shall survive the consummation of the Merger and shall not be terminated or modified in such a manner as to adversely affect any D&O Indemnitee to whom this applies without the consent of such affected D&O Indemnitee (it being expressly agreed that the
Section 5.9
Section 5.9
 
D&O Indemnitees to whom this applies shall be third party beneficiaries of this , each of whom may enforce the provisions of this ).
Section 5.9
Section 5.9
Section 5.9
          (e) If Parent or the Surviving Corporation or any of their respective successors or assigns (i) consolidates with or merges into any other Person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) transfers all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, then, and in each such case, proper provision shall be made so that the successors and assigns of Parent or the Surviving Corporation, as the case may, be shall assume the obligations set forth in this .
Section 5.9
SECTION 5.10. . If any "fair price," "moratorium," "control share acquisition," "business combination" or other takeover statute or similar statute or regulation, applies or purports to apply to this Agreement, the Merger and the Company Voting Agreements or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, each of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company shall (a) take all reasonable action to ensure that such transactions may be consummated as promptly as practicable upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Company Voting Agreements and (b) otherwise act to eliminate the effects of such takeover statute, law or regulation.
State Takeover Laws
SECTION 5.11. . Each party shall bear solely and entirely all expenses incurred by such party or on its behalf in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.
Expenses
SECTION 6.1. . The respective obligations of each party to effect the Merger are subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, waiver on or prior to the Closing Date of each of the following conditions:
Conditions to Each Party's Obligation To Effect the Merger
          (a) . This Agreement shall have been adopted by the Required Company Stockholder Vote.
Stockholder Approval
          (b) . The waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement under the HSR Act and Competition Act shall have been terminated or shall have expired.
HSR Act and Competition Act
          (c) . No preliminary injunction or other order, decree or ruling issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or by a Governmental Authority, nor any statute, rule, regulation or executive order promulgated or enacted by any Governmental Authority, shall be in effect that would make the Merger illegal or otherwise prevent the consummation thereof.
No Injunctions or Restraints
          (d) . The Required Approvals shall have been obtained at or prior to the Effective Time, such approvals shall have become Final Orders (as defined below) and such Final Orders shall not impose terms or conditions that, individually or in the aggregate,
Required Approvals
 
would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect or a Parent Material Adverse Effect. A "" means action by the relevant Governmental Authority that has not been reversed, stayed, enjoined, set aside, annulled or suspended, with respect to which any waiting period prescribed by law before the transactions contemplated hereby may be consummated has expired, and as to which all conditions to the consummation of such transactions prescribed by law, regulation or order have been satisfied.
Final Order
SECTION 6.2. . The obligations of Parent and Merger Sub to effect the Merger are further subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the waiver of the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligations of Parent and Merger Sub
          (a) . The representations and warranties of the Company set forth herein shall be true and correct as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, with the same effect as if made at and as of such time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case as of such date), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct (without giving effect to any threshold or any limitation or qualifier as to "materiality" or "Company Material Adverse Effect" or words of similar import set forth therein) does not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect, and Parent shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of the Company to such effect.
Representations and Warranties
          (b) . The Company shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and Parent shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of the Company to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of the Company
          (c) . Each of the directors of the Company shall have resigned as of the Effective Date and such resignations shall have been delivered to Parent.
Resignations of Directors
SECTION 6.3. . The obligations of the Company to effect the Merger are further subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the waiver of the following conditions:
Conditions to Obligation of the Company
          (a) . The representations and warranties of Parent set forth herein shall be true and correct as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, with the same effect as if made at and as of such time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case as of such date), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct (without giving effect to any threshold or any limitation or qualifier as to "materiality" or "Parent Material Adverse Effect" or words of similar import set forth therein) does not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Parent Material Adverse Effect, and the Company shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of each of Parent and Merger Sub by the respective chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of each such entity to such effect.
Representations and Warranties
 
          (b) . Each of Parent and Merger Sub shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and the Company shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of each of Parent and Merger Sub by the respective chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of each such entity to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of Parent and Merger Sub
SECTION 7.1. . This Agreement may be terminated and the Merger may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after this Agreement has been adopted by the Required Company Stockholder Vote:
Termination
          (a) by mutual written consent of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company;
          (b) by either the Company or Parent, if the Merger has not been consummated by December 31, 2006, or such other date, if any, as the Company and Parent shall agree upon or as is provided in (the ""); , , that the right to terminate this Agreement under this shall not be available to any party whose failure to fulfill any obligation under this Agreement has been the cause of, or resulted in, the failure of the Effective Time to occur on or before such date;
Section 5.1(b)
Termination Date
provided
however
Section 7.1(b)
          (c) by either the Company or Parent, if any judgment, order, decree, statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation or other legal restraint or prohibition having the effects set forth in shall be in effect and shall have become final and nonappealable;
Section 6.1(c)
          (d) by either the Company or Parent, if at the Company Stockholders Meeting (including any adjournment or postponement thereof), the Required Company Stockholder Vote shall not have been obtained in circumstances other than where a Non-Takeover-Related Change of Recommendation has occurred;
          (e) by Parent, if
          (i) the Board of Directors of the Company shall have withdrawn, modified, amended or changed in any respect adverse to Parent its adoption of or recommendation in favor of this Agreement or the Merger,
          (ii) the Board of Directors of the Company shall have recommended to the stockholders of the Company any Takeover Proposal or shall have resolved to, or publicly announced an intention to, do so,
          (iii) the Company shall have breached in a manner which has a material adverse effect on the ability of Parent to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or
Section 5.8
 
          (iv) the Company shall have breached or failed to perform in any material respect any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements contained in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (A) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in or , and (B) is incapable of being cured or has not been cured by the Company within 20 calendar days after written notice has been given by Parent to the Company of such breach or failure to perform ("");
Section 6.2(a)
(b)
Company Breach
          (f) by Parent, or, following the Company Stockholders' Meeting at which the Required Company Stockholder Vote is not obtained and subject to , the Company, if
Section 5.1
          (i) with respect to such termination by the Company, the Company shall not have breached in a manner which has a material adverse effect on the ability of Parent to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
Section 5.8
          (ii) the Board of Directors of the Company (A) recommends to the stockholders of the Company any Takeover Proposal or resolves to, or publicly announces an intention to, do so or (B) authorizes the Company, subject to complying with the terms of and this , to enter into a binding written agreement concerning a transaction that constitutes a Superior Proposal that is not a Cash Superior Proposal and the Company notifies Parent in writing that it intends to enter into such an agreement, attaching the most current version of such agreement to such notice,
Section 5.8
Section 7.1(f)
          (iii) Parent does not make, within five Business Days of receipt of the Company's written notification of its intention to enter into such agreement, an offer that the Board of Directors of the Company determines, in its good faith judgment (after consultation with its financial advisor and outside legal counsel) is at least as favorable to the Company's stockholders from a financial point of view as such Superior Proposal (it being understood and agreed that any amendment to the price or any other material term of such Superior Proposal will require a new notification from the Company to Parent and a new five Business Day period), and
          (iv) the Company concurrently with such termination pays to Parent in immediately available funds the Termination Fee pursuant to ;
Section 7.3
          (g) by Parent or the Company, if
          (i) with respect to such termination by the Company, the Company shall not have breached in a manner which has a material adverse effect on the ability of Parent to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
Section 5.8
          (ii) the Board of Directors of the Company authorizes the Company, subject to complying with the terms of and this , to enter into a binding written agreement concerning a transaction that constitutes a Cash Superior Proposal and the Company notifies Parent in writing that it intends to enter into such an agreement, attaching the most current version of such agreement to such notice,
Section 5.8
Section 7.1(g)
 
          (iii) Parent does not make, within five Business Days of receipt of the Company's written notification of its intention to enter into such agreement, an offer that the Board of Directors of the Company determines, in its good faith judgment (after consultation with its financial advisor and outside legal counsel) is at least as favorable to the Company's stockholders from a financial point of view as such Cash Superior Proposal (it being understood and agreed that any amendment to the price or any other material term of such Cash Superior Proposal will require a new notification from the Company to Parent and a new five Business Day period), and
          (iv) the Company concurrently with such termination pays to Parent in immediately available funds the Termination Fee pursuant to ;
Section 7.3
          (h) by Parent, or, following the Company Stockholders' Meeting at which the Required Company Stockholder Vote is not obtained and subject to , the Company, if the Company's Board of Directors shall have made a Non-Takeover-Related Change of Recommendation; or
Section 5.1(b)
          (i) by the Company, if Parent shall have breached or failed to perform in any material respect any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements contained in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (A) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in or , and (B) is incapable of being cured or has not been cured by Parent within 20 calendar days after written notice has been given by the Company to Parent of such breach or failure to perform.
Section 6.3(a)
(b)
          The party desiring to terminate this Agreement shall give written notice of such termination to the other party.
     SECTION 7.2. .Upon the termination of this Agreement pursuant to and in accordance with , this Agreement shall forthwith become null and void except as set forth in and for the provisions in , which shall survive such termination; that nothing herein shall relieve any party from liability for any intentional breach of a covenant or representation of warranty in this Agreement prior to such termination. In addition, the Company Confidentiality Agreement shall not be affected by the termination of this Agreement.
Effect of Termination
Section 7.1
Section 7.3
Article 8
provided
     SECTION 7.3. .(a) If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to , , or, following the failure of the Board of Directors of the Company to Recommend Against a Takeover Proposal, , the Company shall promptly, but in no event later than one Business Day after termination of this Agreement, pay Parent a fee in immediately available funds of $154.0 million (the ""). If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to or , the Company shall pay such Termination Fee concurrently with such termination.
Fees and Expenses
Section 7.1(e)(i)
Section 7.1(e)(ii)
Section 7.1(e)(iii)
Section 7.1(d)
Termination Fee
Section 7.1(f)
Section 7.1(g)
          (b) If (A) a Bona Fide Takeover Proposal (assuming for purposes of this that the references to 10% in the definition of Takeover Proposal are 50%) in respect of the Company is publicly announced or is proposed or offered or made to the Company or the Company's stockholders prior to this Agreement having been approved by the Required
Section 7.3(b)
 
Company Stockholder Vote, (B) this Agreement is terminated by either party, as applicable, pursuant to and (C) within 12 months following such termination the Company shall consummate or enter into, directly or indirectly, an agreement with respect to a transaction constituting a Takeover Proposal (assuming for purposes of this that the references to 10% in the definition of Takeover Proposal are 50%) that is subsequently consummated, the Company shall promptly after such consummation, but in no event later than one Business Day after such consummation, pay Parent the Termination Fee.
Section 7.1(b)
Section 7.3(b)
          (c) If (A) a Bona Fide Takeover Proposal (assuming for purposes of this that the references to 10% in the definition of Takeover Proposal are 50%) in respect of the Company is publicly announced or is proposed or offered or made to the Company or the Company's stockholders prior to this Agreement having been approved by the Required Company Stockholder Vote and the Company's Board of Directors shall have made or shall have deemed to have made a Recommendation Against a Takeover Proposal, (B) this Agreement is terminated by either party, as applicable, pursuant to and (C) within 12 months following such termination the Company shall consummate or enter into, directly or indirectly, an agreement with respect to a transaction constituting a Takeover Proposal (assuming for purposes of this that the references to 10% in the definition of Takeover Proposal are 50%) that is subsequently consummated, the Company shall promptly after such consummation, but in no event later than one Business Day after such consummation, pay Parent a fee in immediately available funds of $104.0 million; that when
Section 7.3(c)
Section 7.1(d)
Section 7.3(c)
provided
          (d) If (A) Parent terminates this Agreement under or at a time that a Company Breach exists and (B) within 12 months following such termination the Company shall consummate or enter into, directly or indirectly, an agreement with respect to a transaction constituting a Takeover Proposal (assuming for purposes of this that the references to 10% in the definition of Takeover Proposal are 50%) that is subsequently consummated, then the Company shall promptly after such consummation, but in no event later than one Business Day after such consummation, pay Parent the Termination Fee.
Section 7.1(e)(iv)
Section 7.1(b)
Section 7.3(d)
          (e) If (A) Non-Takeover-Related Change of Recommendation is made and (B) (1) Parent terminates this Agreement pursuant to , the Company shall promptly, but in no event later than one Business Day after such termination pay Parent the Termination Fee, or (2) the Company terminates this Agreement pursuant to , the Company shall concurrently with such termination, pay Parent the Termination Fee.
Section 7.1(h)
Section 7.1(h)
 
          (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, receipt by Parent of a Termination Fee under (or the $50.0 million fee and, if applicable, the $104.0 million fee, in the case of ) shall constitute full settlement of any and all liabilities of the Company for damages under this Agreement in respect of a termination of this Agreement.
Section 7.3
Section 7.3(c)
SECTION 7.4. . This Agreement may be amended by the parties hereto, at any time before or after approval of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby by action by or on behalf of the respective Boards of Directors of the parties hereto or the stockholders of the Company; , , that after any such approval by the stockholders of the Company, no amendment shall be made that in any way materially adversely affects the rights of such stockholders (other than a termination of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions hereof) without the further approval of such stockholders. This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed on behalf of each of the parties hereto.
Amendment
provided
however
SECTION 7.5. . Any failure of any of the parties to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition herein may be waived at any time prior to the Effective Time by any of the parties entitled to the benefit thereof only by a written instrument signed by each such party granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict compliance with such obligation, representation, warranty, covenant, agreement or condition shall not operate as a waiver of or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other failure.
Waiver
SECTION 8.1. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally, mailed by certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by overnight courier or by telecopier (upon confirmation of receipt) to the parties at the following addresses or at such other addresses as shall be specified by the parties by like notice:
Notices
 
     Notice so given shall (in the case of notice so given by mail) be deemed to be given when received and (in the case of notice so given by cable, telegram, telecopier, telex or personal delivery) on the date of actual transmission or (as the case may be) personal delivery.
SECTION 8.2. . The representations and warranties contained in this Agreement shall not survive the Merger.
Representations and Warranties
SECTION 8.3. . When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section or Exhibit, such reference shall be to an Article, Section or Exhibit to this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The words "include," "includes" and "including" when used herein shall be deemed in each case to be followed by the words "without limitation." Any references in this Agreement to "the date hereof" refers to the date of execution of this Agreement. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. The definitions contained in this Agreement are applicable to the singular as well as the plural forms of such terms and to the masculine as well as to the feminine and neuter genders of such term. Any agreement, instrument or statute defined or referred to herein or in any agreement or instrument that is referred to herein means such agreement, instrument or statute as from time to time
Interpretations
 
amended, modified or supplemented, including (in the case of agreements or instruments) by waiver or consent and (in the case of statutes) by succession of comparable successor statutes and references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein. References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns. Any reference to the Company's Board of Directors shall be deemed to include any committee thereof.
SECTION 8.4. .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
          (a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE REGARDLESS OF THE LAWS THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE GOVERN UNDER APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS THEREOF.
          (b) Each of the parties hereto (i) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of the Delaware Court of Chancery in the event any dispute arises out of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (iii) agrees that it will not bring any action relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any court other than the Delaware Court of Chancery, and (iv) waives any right to trial by jury with respect to any action related to or arising out of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby.
SECTION 8.5. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, and delivered by means of facsimile transmission or otherwise, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts; Facsimile Transmission of Signatures
SECTION 8.6. .
Assignment; No Third Party Beneficiaries
          (a) This Agreement and all of the provisions hereto shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns, but neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations set forth herein shall be assigned by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other parties hereto and any purported assignment without such consent shall be void.
          (b) Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as giving any Person, other than the parties hereto and their heirs, successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns, any right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision hereof, except that (i) each Acquired Employee is intended to be a third party beneficiary of and may specifically enforce its terms (provided that no right to employment is granted hereby) and (ii) each Indemnified Party and D&O Indemnitee is intended to be a third party beneficiary of and may specifically enforce its terms.
Section 5.2
Section 5.9
SECTION 8.7. . If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under any applicable law, then such contravention or invalidity shall not invalidate the entire Agreement. Such provision shall be deemed to be modified to the extent
Severability
 
necessary to render it legal, valid and enforceable, and if no such modification shall render it legal, valid and enforceable, then this Agreement shall be construed as if not containing the provision held to be invalid, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall be construed and enforced accordingly.
SECTION 8.8. . This Agreement and the Company Confidentiality Agreement contain all of the terms of the understandings of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
SECTION 8.9. . The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
Enforcement
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first written above.

 
Exhibit 2.2
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
     (this ""), dated as of June 22, 2006, among , a Delaware corporation (""), , a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (""), and , a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement and Plan of Merger
Agreement
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation
Parent
APC Acquisition Sub, Inc.
Merger Sub
Kerr-McGee Corporation
Company
     , the respective Boards of Directors of each of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have unanimously (i) approved and declared advisable the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company (the ""), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and (ii) approved this Agreement.
WHEREAS
Merger
     , as a result of the Merger, and in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $1.00 per share of the Company (the "") (other than shares of Company Common Stock owned by the Company, Parent, Merger Sub or any wholly-owned Subsidiary (as defined in ) of the Company or Parent immediately prior to the Effective Time (as defined in ) and Dissenting Shares (as defined in ), will, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, be converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration (as defined in .
WHEREAS
DGCL
Company Common Stock
Section 2.4(a)
Section 1.2
Section 1.6(d)
Section 1.6(b))
     In consideration of the foregoing and of the representations, warranties and covenants contained in this Agreement, and for other valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company hereby agree as follows:
     SECTION 1.1 .
The Merger
     Upon the terms and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions hereof, and in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement and the DGCL, at the Effective Time, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into the Company. As a result of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub shall cease and the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation (the "").
Surviving Corporation
     SECTION 1.2 .
Effective Time; Closing
     (a) The closing of the Merger (the "") shall take place at 10:00 a.m. (Central time) on a date to be specified by the parties, which shall be no later than the second Business Day after satisfaction or (to the extent permitted by applicable law) waiver of the conditions set forth in (other than any such conditions which by their nature cannot be satisfied until the Closing Date, which shall be required to be so satisfied or (to the extent permitted by applicable law) waived on the Closing Date), at the offices of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, 1111 Louisiana Street, 44th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002 unless another date, time or place
Closing
Article VI
 
is agreed to in writing between Parent and the Company. The date on which the Closing occurs is referred to in this Agreement as the "". As used in this Agreement, "" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banks are required or authorized by law to be closed in New York, New York.
Closing Date
Business Day
     (b) On the Closing Date or as promptly as practicable thereafter, the Company hereto shall cause the Merger to be consummated by filing a certificate of merger, in accordance with the DGCL, with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware in such form as required by, and executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL (the "") (the time of such filing (or such later time as is specified in such Certificate of Merger as agreed between Parent and the Company) being the "").
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
     SECTION 1.3 .
Effect of the Merger
     At the Effective Time, the effect of the Merger shall be as provided in Section 259 of the DGCL. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Effective Time, all the property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the Company and Merger Sub shall vest in the Surviving Corporation, and all debts, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, disabilities and duties of each of the Company and the Merger Sub shall become the debts, liabilities, obligations, restrictions, disabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation.
     SECTION 1.4 .
Certificate of Incorporation; Bylaws
     At the Effective Time, the certificate of incorporation of the Company as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be amended to read in its entirety in the form of Exhibit A hereto, and, as so amended shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation. At the Effective Time, the bylaws of the Company as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be amended to read in their entirety in the form of Exhibit B hereto, and, as so amended shall be the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation.
     SECTION 1.5 .
Directors and Officers
     (a) The directors of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the directors of the Surviving Corporation until the earlier of their resignation or removal or the election of their successors. The Company shall cause all directors of the Company to resign immediately prior to the Effective Time.
     (b) The officers of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the officers of the Surviving Corporation until the earlier of their resignation or removal or the election of their successors.
     SECTION 1.6 .
Effect on Capital Stock
     As of the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of Parent, Merger Sub, the Company or any other holder of any shares of capital stock of Merger Sub or the Company:
 
     (a) . Each share of capital stock of Merger Sub outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into one share of common stock of the Surviving Corporation, par value $1.00 per share, and such shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the capital stock of Merger Sub shall represent all of the outstanding shares of the Surviving Corporation.
Capital Stock of Merger Sub
     (b) . Each share of Company Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than any Dissenting Shares and any shares to be cancelled pursuant to ) shall be cancelled and shall be converted automatically into the right to receive $70.50 in cash payable to the holder thereof and subject to increase as provided in the following sentence (the ""). Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, if the Effective Time does not occur on or prior to August 10, 2006, the Merger Consideration shall increase at a daily rate of $0.01255 for each day subsequent thereto until the Effective Time occurs; provided however, that the Merger Consideration shall not in any case exceed $71.0271 (after taking into effect the adjustments contemplated by this sentence). As of the Effective Time, all such shares of Company Common Stock shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be cancelled and shall cease to exist, and, subject to , each holder of a certificate representing any such shares of Company Common Stock shall cease to have any rights with respect thereto, except the right to receive the Merger Consideration.
Conversion of Company Common Stock
Section 1.6(c)
Merger Consideration
Section 1.6(d)
     (c) . Each share of Company Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company and each share of Company Common Stock owned by Merger Sub, Parent or any wholly-owned Subsidiary of Parent immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be cancelled without any conversion thereof and no payment or distribution shall be made with respect thereto. Each share of Company Common Stock owned by any Subsidiary of Company shall not be cancelled at the Effective Time and shall remain outstanding.
Treatment of Treasury Stock and Parent-Owned Stock
     (d) .
Shares of Company Common Stock of Dissenting Stockholders
     (i) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, any shares of Company Common Stock that are outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time and which are held by any person who is entitled to demand and properly demands in writing an appraisal of the "fair value" of such shares of Company Common Stock in accordance with Section 262 of the DGCL ("") shall not be converted into the right to receive Merger Consideration as provided in , but rather the holders of Dissenting Shares shall be entitled to payment of the fair market value of such Dissenting Shares in accordance with Section 262 of the DGCL; provided, that, any Dissenting Shares held by holders of Company Common Stock who shall have failed to perfect or who effectively shall have withdrawn or lost their rights for an appraisal of such shares under the DGCL shall thereupon be deemed to have been cancelled and terminated, as of the Effective Time, and shall represent solely the right to receive the Merger Consideration as provided in , upon surrender in the manner provided in , of the certificate or certificates that formerly evidenced such shares of Company Common Stock.
Dissenting Shares
Section 1.6(b)
Section 1.6(b)
Section 1.7
 
     (ii) The Company shall give to Parent (i) prompt notice of any demands for appraisal received by the Company, withdrawals of such demands, and (ii) the Company and Parent shall jointly direct all negotiations and proceedings with respect to demands for appraisal under the DGCL. The Company shall not, without the prior written consent of Parent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), make any payment with respect to any such demands, or offer to settle, or settle, any such demands. Any amount payable to any holder of Company Common Stock exercising appraisal rights shall be paid solely by the Surviving Corporation out of its own funds.
     SECTION 1.7 .
Payment for Shares
     (a) . Prior to the Effective Time, Parent shall designate a bank or trust company reasonably satisfactory to the Company to act as agent for the holders of Company Common Stock in connection with the Merger (the "") to receive in trust the funds to which holders of Company Common Stock shall become entitled pursuant to . At the Effective Time, Parent shall deposit, or cause the Surviving Corporation to deposit, with the Paying Agent, for the benefit of the Company's stockholders, cash in an amount sufficient for the payment of the Merger Consideration as provided in upon surrender of certificates representing the shares of Company Common Stock as provided herein (the ""). The Paying Agent shall invest the cash included in the Exchange Fund in obligations guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America. All interest earned on such funds shall be paid to Parent.
Paying Agent
Paying Agent
Section 1.6(b)
Section 1.6(b)
Exchange Fund
     (b) . As soon as reasonably practicable after the Effective Time, but in any event not later than five Business days thereafter, the Paying Agent shall mail to each holder of record of (x) a certificate or certificates that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented shares of Company Common Stock (the "") and (y) any non-certificated shares held by book entry (""), (i) a letter of transmittal (which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title shall pass, only upon proper delivery of the Company Certificates to the Paying Agent and shall be in a form and have such other provisions as Parent may reasonably specify) and (ii) instructions for use in effecting the surrender of the Company Certificates and Book Entry Shares in exchange for the Merger Consideration as provided in . Exchange of any Book Entry Shares shall be effected in accordance with the Exchange Agent's customary procedures with respect to securities represented by book entry. Upon surrender of a Company Certificate or Book Entry Share for cancellation to the Paying Agent or to such other agent or agents as may be appointed by Parent, together with such letter of transmittal, duly executed, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Paying Agent, the holder of such Company Certificate or Book Entry Share shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor the Merger Consideration, and the Company Certificate or Book Entry Share so surrendered shall forthwith be cancelled. Parent shall cause the Paying Agent to make all payments required pursuant to the preceding sentence as soon as practicable following the valid surrender of Company Certificates or Book Entry Shares. In the event of a transfer of ownership of Company Common Stock that is not registered in the transfer records of the Company, payment may be made to a Person other than the Person in whose name the Company Certificate so surrendered is registered, if such Company Certificate shall be properly endorsed or otherwise be in proper form for transfer and the Person requesting such payment shall pay any transfer or other taxes required by reason of
Exchange Procedure
Company Certificates
Book Entry Shares
Section 1.6(b)
 
the payment to a Person other than the registered holder of such Company Certificate or establish to the satisfaction of the Surviving Corporation that such tax has been paid or is not applicable. Until surrendered as contemplated by this , each Company Certificate and Book Entry Share shall be deemed at any time after the Effective Time to represent only the right to receive upon such surrender the Merger Consideration pursuant to . No interest will be paid or will accrue on the cash payable upon the surrender of any Company Certificate or Book Entry Share. All amounts payable hereunder to a holder of Company Stock shall be rounded to the nearest cent.
Section 1.7(b)
Section 1.6(b)
     (c) . All cash paid upon the surrender of Company Certificates and Book Entry Shares in accordance with the terms of this shall be deemed to have been paid in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to the Company Common Stock theretofore represented by such Company Certificates or Book Entry Shares, subject, however, to the Surviving Corporation's obligation to pay any dividends or make any other distributions with a record date prior to the Effective Time that may have been declared or made by the Company on such shares of Company Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or prior to the date of this Agreement and which remain unpaid at the Effective Time. At the Effective Time, the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed, and there shall be no further registration of transfers on the stock transfer books of the Surviving Corporation of Company Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time. If, after the Effective Time, Company Certificates or Book Entry Shares are presented to the Surviving Corporation or the Paying Agent for any reason, they shall be cancelled and exchanged for cash as provided in this .
No Further Ownership Rights in Company Common Stock; Transfer Books
Article I
Article I
     (d) . At any time following six months after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall be entitled to require the Paying Agent to deliver to it any portion of the Exchange Fund (including any interest received with respect thereto) which has not been disbursed to holders of Company Certificates and Book Entry Shares, and thereafter such holders shall be entitled to look to the Surviving Corporation (subject to abandoned property, escheat or other similar laws) only as general creditors thereof with respect to the Merger Consideration, payable upon due surrender of their Company Certificates and Book Entry Shares, without any interest thereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of Parent, Merger Sub, the Company or the Paying Agent shall be liable to any Person in respect of any cash delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law. If any Company Certificates or Book Entry Shares shall not have been surrendered immediately prior to such date on which any payment pursuant to this would otherwise escheat to or become the property of any Governmental Authority, the Merger Consideration in respect of such Company Certificate or Book Entry Share shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, become the property of the Surviving Corporation, free and clear of all claims or interests of any Person previously entitled thereto. As used in this Agreement, "" shall mean any United States federal, state, local or any foreign government, governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency, or commission or any court, tribunal, or judicial or arbitral body or entity.
Termination of Fund; No Liability
Article I
Governmental Authority
     (e) . In the event any Company Certificates evidencing Company Common Stock shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, the Paying Agent shall pay to such holder the Merger Consideration required pursuant to , in
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
Section 1.6(b)
 
exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed Company Certificates, upon the making of an affidavit, which shall include indemnities and the posting of a bond which are acceptable to Parent, of that fact by the holder thereof with such assurances as the Paying Agent, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the payment of the Merger Consideration may reasonably require of the holder of such lost, stolen or destroyed Company Certificates.
     (f) . Parent and Merger Sub shall be entitled to deduct and withhold, or cause the Paying Agent to deduct and withhold, from the consideration otherwise payable to a holder of Company Common Stock pursuant to this Agreement any stock transfer taxes and such amounts as are required to be withheld or deducted under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), or any applicable provisions of state, local or foreign tax law. To the extent that amounts are so withheld, such withheld amounts shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of Company Common Stock in respect of which such deduction and withholding were made.
Withholding Taxes
Code
     SECTION 1.8 .
Options and Restricted Stock
     (a) At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of any holder of any outstanding Option (hereinafter defined), whether vested or unvested, exercisable or unexercisable, each Option that is outstanding and unexercised immediately prior thereto shall immediately and fully vest, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth below in this , each such Option shall terminate and be cancelled at the Effective Time and each holder of an Option will be entitled to receive from the Company, and shall receive as soon as practicable following the Effective Time, in settlement of each Option a Cash Amount. The "" shall be equal to the net amount of (A) the product of (i) the excess, if any, of the Merger Consideration over the exercise price per share of such Option, multiplied by (ii) the number of shares subject to such Option, less (B) any applicable withholdings for Taxes. If the exercise price per share of any Option equals or exceeds the Merger Consideration, the Cash Amount therefor shall be zero. Payment of the Cash Amount shall be communicated to each holder of Option(s) in a written notice that has been approved by Parent from Target stating that, upon acceptance of the Cash Amount, such holder understands that no further payment is due to such holder on account of any Option and all of such holder's rights under such Options have terminated. As used in this Agreement, "" means any option granted, and not exercised, expired or terminated, to a current or former employee, director or independent contractor of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any predecessor thereof to purchase shares of Company Common Stock pursuant to the plans set forth in Section 1.8(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter, or any other stock option, stock bonus, stock award, or stock purchase plan, program, or arrangement of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any predecessor thereof ("") or any other contract or agreement entered into by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries. All amounts payable hereunder to a holder of an outstanding Option shall be rounded to the nearest cent.
Section 1.8
Cash Amount
Option
Company Stock Plans
     (b) All performance units will be terminated, and to the extent applicable, paid out in cash as soon as practicable following the Effective Time in accordance with the terms of the plan under which they were granted.
 
     (c) The Board of Directors of the Company (or the appropriate committee thereof) shall adopt such resolutions or take such other actions as shall be required to cause all restrictions on the then outstanding shares of Restricted Stock (as defined below) to lapse as of immediately prior to the Effective Time. Each holder of Restricted Stock shall be treated as a holder of Company Common Stock issued and outstanding as of immediately prior to the Effective Time. As used in this Agreement, "" means any outstanding award of restricted Company Common Stock with respect to which the restrictions have not lapsed, and which award shall not have previously expired or terminated, to a current or former employee, director or independent contractor of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any predecessor thereof or former subsidiary of the Company or any other Person pursuant to any applicable Company Stock Plan or any other contract or agreement entered into by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries.
Restricted Stock
     (d) As of the Effective Time, except as provided in this , all rights under any Option and any provision of the Company Stock Plans providing for the issuance or grant of any other interest in respect of the capital stock of the Company shall be cancelled. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to ensure that, as of and after the Effective Time, except as provided in this , no person shall have any rights under the Company Stock Plans or any other plan, program or arrangement with respect to securities of the Company, the Surviving Corporation or any subsidiary thereof.
Section 1.8
Section 1.8
     (e) Prior to the Effective Time, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to cause the transactions contemplated by this and any other dispositions of equity securities of the Company (including derivative securities) in connection with this Agreement by each individual who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to the Company to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act.
Section 1.8
     Except as publicly disclosed or furnished with reasonable specificity by the Company in the forms, reports, schedules, registration statements, definitive proxy statements and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC prior to the date of this Agreement (collectively, the "") and except as set forth on the disclosure letter (each section of which qualifies the correspondingly numbered representation and warranty or covenant to the extent specified therein, provided that any disclosure set forth with respect to any particular section shall be deemed to be disclosed in reference to all other applicable sections of this Agreement if the disclosure in respect of the particular section is sufficient on its face without further inquiry reasonably to inform Parent of the information required to be disclosed in respect of the other sections to avoid a breach under the representation and warranty or covenant corresponding to such other sections) previously delivered by the Company to Parent (the ""), the Company hereby represents and warrants to Parent and Merger Sub as follows:
Available SEC Reports
Company Disclosure Letter
 
     SECTION 2.1 .
Organization
     The Company and each entity that is a Subsidiary of the Company as of the date hereof (the "") is a corporation, limited liability company or partnership duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all requisite entity power and authority to own, operate and lease its properties and to carry on its business as now conducted. The Company and each of the Company Subsidiaries is duly qualified and/or licensed, as may be required, and in good standing in each of the jurisdictions in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character of the property owned, leased or used by it makes such qualification and/or licensing necessary, except in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified and/or licensed, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. A "" means a material adverse effect on (i) the business, operations, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or other) or results of operations of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise or (ii) the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; , that any event, condition, change, occurrence or development of a state of circumstances which (i) adversely affects the oil and gas exploration and development industry generally (including changes in commodity prices, general market prices, interest rates and regulatory changes), (ii) arises out of general political, economic or industry conditions (and in each case does not disproportionately affect the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise) (iii) results from or is caused by natural disasters (including hurricanes), occurring after the date hereof (and in each case does not disproportionately affect the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise) or (iv) (other than with respect to ) arise out of, result from or relate to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the announcement thereof, shall not be considered in determining whether a Company Material Adverse Effect has occurred. The copies of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Company which are incorporated by reference as exhibits to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 are complete and correct copies of such documents and contain all amendments thereto as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
Company Subsidiaries
Company Material Adverse Effect
provided, however
Section 2.3(b)
     SECTION 2.2 .
Capitalization
     (a) The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of (i) 500,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock and (ii) 40,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value, issuable in series (""), of which 1,000,000 shares have been designated Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock. As of June 21, 2006, (i) 229,338,430 shares of Company Common Stock were issued and outstanding, of which 2,215,384 were held by Sun Pennsylvania Limited Partnership, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, (ii) no shares of Company Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding, (iii) 1,000,000 shares of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock were reserved for issuance upon exercise of the rights ("") distributed to the holders of Company Common Stock pursuant to the Rights Agreement dated as of July 26, 2001 (the ""), between the Company and UMB Bank, as amended and (iv) as of June 21, 2006, 7,104,309 shares of Company Common Stock were held by the Company in its treasury. The amount of the dividend paid quarterly on
Company Preferred Stock
Company Rights
Rights Agreement
 
Company Common Stock is $0.03125 per share (the ""). Since January 1, 2006, except for the Quarterly Dividend and the issuance and dividend on June 14, 2006, of one share of Company Common Stock per issued and outstanding share of Company Common Stock to the holders of record thereof on June 2, 2006 (the ""), the Company has not, declared or paid any dividend, or declared or made any distribution on, or authorized the creation or issuance of, or issued, or authorized or effected any split-up or any other recapitalization of, any of its capital stock, or directly or indirectly redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired any of its outstanding capital stock. Such issued and outstanding shares of Company Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued, and are fully paid and nonassessable, and free of preemptive rights and in compliance with all applicable state and federal securities laws. The Company has not heretofore agreed to take any such action, and there are no outstanding contractual obligations of the Company of any kind to redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire any outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company. There are no outstanding bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness or warrants or other securities of the Company having the right to vote (or, other than any outstanding options to purchase Company Common Stock, convertible into, or exchangeable for, securities having the right to vote) on any matters on which stockholders of the Company may vote.
Quarterly Dividend
Stock Split
     (b) As of June 21, 2006, there were outstanding Options to purchase 10,356,133 shares of Company Common Stock, and the weighted average exercise price of all such Options was $30.2389. There are no stock appreciation rights attached to the Options. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence or above in this , (i) as of June 21, 2006, no shares of capital stock or other voting securities of the Company are issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding, and (ii) there are no outstanding securities, options, warrants, calls, rights, commitments, agreements, arrangements or undertakings of any kind to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound obligating the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries to issue, deliver or sell, or cause to be issued, delivered or sold, additional shares of capital stock or other voting securities of the Company or of any of the Company Subsidiaries or obligating the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries to issue, grant, extend or enter into any such security, option, warrant, call, right, commitment, agreement, arrangement or undertaking.
Section 2.2
     (c) During the period from June 21, 2006 to the date of this Agreement (i) there have been no issuances by the Company of shares of capital stock or other voting securities of the Company other than issuances of Company Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of Options outstanding on June 21, 2006 and (ii) there have been no issuances of Options or other options, warrants or other rights to acquire capital stock of the Company.
     SECTION 2.3 .
Authorization; No Conflict
     (a) The Company has the requisite corporate power and authority to enter into and deliver this Agreement and all other agreements and documents contemplated hereby to which it is a party and to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company, the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company. No other corporate proceedings on the part of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries are necessary to authorize the
 
execution and delivery of this Agreement, the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, except for the adoption of this Agreement by the Required Company Stockholder Vote (as defined in ). This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.11(b)
     (b) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company nor the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby nor compliance by the Company with any of the provisions herein will (i) result in a violation or breach of or conflict with the (x) certificate or articles of incorporation or bylaws of the Company or any Company Subsidiary that is a corporation, (y) the articles or certificate of formation or the limited liability company agreement of any Company Subsidiary that is a limited liability company, or (z) the certificate of limited partnership or partnership agreement of any Company Subsidiary that is a limited partnership, or the organizational documents of any other Company Subsidiary, (ii) result in a violation or breach of or conflict with any provisions of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the termination, cancellation of, or give rise to a right of purchase under, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of termination or acceleration under, or result in the creation of any Lien (as defined in ) upon any of the properties or assets owned or operated by the Company or any Company Subsidiaries under, or result in being declared void, voidable, or without further binding effect, or otherwise result in a detriment to the Company or any Company Subsidiary under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, contract, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation of any kind to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets may be bound or (iii) subject to obtaining or making the consents, approvals, orders, authorizations, registrations, declarations and filings referred to in paragraph (c) below, violate any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction, decree, statute, law (including the common law), rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets, other than any such event described in items (ii) or (iii) which, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Section 2.4(b)
     (c) No consent, approval, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any Governmental Authority is necessary to be obtained or made by the Company or any Company Subsidiary in connection with the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, except for (i) compliance with the DGCL, with respect to the filing of the Certificate of Merger, (ii) compliance with the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "") and if required, the Competition Act (Canada) (the ""), and other applicable foreign competition or antitrust laws, if any, (iii) the filing with the SEC of (A) a proxy statement relating to the Company Stockholders Meeting (as defined in ) (such proxy statement, as amended or supplemented from time to time, the ""), and (B) such reports under Sections 13(a), 13(d), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""), as may
HSR Act
Competition Act
Section 5.1(b)
Proxy Statement
Exchange Act
 
be required in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, (iv) compliance with the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (""), (v) such governmental or tribal consents, qualifications or filings as are customarily obtained or made following the transfer of interests in oil and gas properties (""), and (vi) compliance with the "blue sky" laws of various states, and except in each case of clauses (i)-(vi) where the failure to obtain or take such action, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
NYSE
Customary Post Closing Consents
     SECTION 2.4 .
Subsidiaries
     (a) Section 2.4(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter sets forth the name and jurisdiction of organization of each (i) Company Subsidiary; and (ii) entity in which the Company (other than the Company Subsidiaries) or any Company Subsidiary owns any interest other than non-material interests and interests in joint ventures or similar entities in the ordinary course of business consistent with practices in the oil and gas industry. As used in this Agreement, (i) "" means with respect to any Person, another Person, an amount of the voting securities or other voting ownership interests of which is sufficient to elect at least a majority of its Board of Directors or other governing body (or, if there are no such voting interests, 50% or more of the equity interests of which) is owned directly or indirectly by such first Person; and (ii) "" means an individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or governmental or other entity.
Subsidiary
Person
     (b) All of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity securities of, or other ownership interests in, each Company Subsidiary that are owned directly or indirectly by the Company are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable, and such shares, securities or interests are owned by the Company or by a Company Subsidiary free and clear of any Liens or limitations on voting rights. There are no subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, rights, convertible securities or other agreements or commitments of any character relating to the issuance, transfer, sales, delivery, voting or redemption (including any rights of conversion or exchange under any outstanding security or other instrument) for any of the capital stock or other equity interests of, or other ownership interests in, any Company Subsidiaries. There are no agreements requiring the Company or any Company Subsidiary to make contributions to the capital of, or lend or advance funds to, any Company Subsidiary. As used in this Agreement, "" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset.
Lien
     SECTION 2.5 .
SEC Reports and Financial Statements
     (a) Since January 1, 2003, the Company has filed with the SEC all forms, reports, schedules, registration statements, definitive proxy statements and other documents (collectively, including all exhibits thereto, the "") required to be filed by the Company with the SEC. As of their respective dates, and giving effect to any amendments or supplements thereto filed prior to the date of this Agreement, the Company SEC Reports complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") and the Exchange Act, and the respective rules and regulations of the SEC
Company SEC Reports
Securities Act
 
promulgated thereunder applicable to the Company SEC Reports, and none of the Company SEC Reports contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. As of the date hereof, except for any reports on Form 8 K required to be filed with respect to this Agreement, the Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby, no event has occurred with respect to the Company or any of Company Subsidiaries which the Company is, or after the passage of time, will be, required to report by the filing with the SEC of a current report on Form 8-K which has not been so reported by the Company by the filing of a current report on Form 8-K on or prior to the date hereof. None of the Company Subsidiaries is required to file any forms, reports or other documents with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15 of the Exchange Act.
     (b) The consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) and stockholders' equity and consolidated statements of cash flows (including, in each case, any related notes and schedules thereto) (collectively, the "") of the Company contained in the Company SEC Reports have been prepared from the books and records of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, comply as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been prepared in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("") (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form 10-Q of the SEC) applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as otherwise noted therein) and present fairly the consolidated financial position and the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries as of the dates or for the periods presented therein (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to normal and recurring year-end adjustments in the ordinary course of business). Except as reflected in the Company Financial Statements, neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries has any liabilities or obligations of any nature (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise), required by GAAP to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries or in the notes thereto, other than any liabilities incurred since December 31, 2005 which, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Company Financial Statements
GAAP
     (c) Other than any matters that do not to the Company's knowledge remain the subject of any open or outstanding inquiry, (i) the Company has not received written notice from the SEC or any other Governmental Authority that any of its accounting policies or practices are or may be the subject of any review, inquiry, investigation or challenge by the SEC or other Governmental Authority. Since January 1, 2003, the Company's independent public accounting firm has not informed Company that it has any material questions, challenges or disagreements regarding or pertaining to Company's accounting policies or practices. Since January 1, 2003, to the knowledge of the Company, no current officer or director of the Company has received, or is entitled to receive, any material compensation from any entity other than the Company or a Company Subsidiary that has engaged in or is engaging in any material transaction with Company or any Company Subsidiary.
     (d) With respect to each annual report on Form 10-K, each quarterly report on Form 10-Q and each amendment of any such report included in the Company SEC Reports, the chief
 
executive officer and chief financial officer of the Company have made all certifications (without qualifications or exceptions to the matters certified) required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("") and any related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and the NYSE, and the statements contained in any such certifications are complete and correct. Other than any matters that do not to the Company's knowledge remain the subject of any open or outstanding inquiry, neither the Company nor its officers has received notice from any Governmental Authority questioning or challenging the accuracy, completeness, form or manner of filing or submission of such certificates.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
     (e) The Company has established and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act); such disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material information relating to Company and the Company Subsidiaries required to be disclosed in the Company's reports required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to the Exchange Act, is made known to the Company's principal executive officer and its principal financial officer by others within those entities, particularly during the periods in which the periodic reports required under the Exchange Act are being prepared; and, to the knowledge of the Company, such disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting the Company's principal executive officer and its principal financial officer to material information required to be included in Company's periodic reports required under the Exchange Act.
     (f) The Company is in compliance in all material respects with (i) all current listing and corporate governance requirements of the NYSE and (ii) all rules, regulations and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the SEC.
     SECTION 2.6
Absence of Material Adverse Changes, etc.
     Since December 31, 2005, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have conducted their business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and there has not been or occurred:
     (a) any event, condition, change, occurrence or development of a state of circumstances which, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect;
     (b) any material damage, destruction or other casualty loss (whether or not covered by insurance) affecting the business or assets owned or operated by the Company and the Company Subsidiaries; or
     (c) other than the Stock Split, any event, condition, action or occurrence that, if taken during the period from the date of this Agreement through the Effective Time, would constitute a breach of .
Section 4.1(b)
     SECTION 2.7 .
Litigation
     There are no suits, actions or legal, administrative, arbitration or other proceedings or governmental investigations pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party which, individually or in the
 
aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. There are no judgments, decrees, injunctions, rules, awards or orders of any Governmental Authority outstanding against the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries which, individually or in the aggregate, have had or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
     SECTION 2.8 .
Information Supplied
     None of the information supplied or to be supplied by the Company specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to the Company's stockholders or at the time of the Company Stockholders Meeting contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The portions of the Proxy Statement supplied by the Company will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act. No representation or warranty is made by the Company with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by Parent or Merger Sub specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement.
     SECTION 2.9 .
Broker's or Finder's Fees
     Except for Lehman Brothers Inc. and JP Morgan Securities Inc. (the ""), no agent, broker, Person or firm acting on behalf of the Company or any Company Subsidiary or under the Company's or any Company Subsidiary's authority is or will be entitled to any advisory, commission or broker's or finder's fee or commission from any of the parties hereto in connection with any of the transactions contemplated hereby. The Company has furnished to Parent a true and complete copy of the Company's agreements with each Company Financial Advisor pursuant to which such Company Financial Advisor is entitled to a fee in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Company Financial Advisors
     SECTION 2.10 .
Employee Plans
     (a) There are no Company Employee Benefit Plans established by, maintained, adopted, participated in, sponsored by, contributed to or required to be contributed to, provided, promised to provide, or terminated by the Company or any entity with which the Company is considered a single employer under Section 414(b), (c) or (m) of the Code ("") with respect to which either the Company or any Company ERISA Affiliate could reasonably be expected to have any material liability. As used in this Agreement, "" means any plan, program, policy, practice, agreement or other arrangement providing compensation or benefits in any form to any current or former employee, independent contractor, officer or director of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries or any beneficiary or dependent thereof, whether written or unwritten, formal or informal, including any "employee welfare benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA (""), any "employee pension benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA (whether or not such plan is subject to ERISA) ("") and any other pension, profit-sharing, bonus, incentive compensation, deferred compensation, vacation, sick pay, stock purchase, stock option, phantom
Company ERISA Affiliates
Company Employee Benefit Plan
Company Employee Welfare Benefit Plan
Company Employee Pension Benefit Plan
 
equity, severance, employment, consulting, unemployment, hospitalization or other medical, life, or other insurance, long- or short-term disability, change of control, fringe benefit, or any other plan, program or policy providing benefits or compensation.
     (b) As of June 21, 2006, there were 37,725,906 outstanding performance units which by their terms and those plans under which they were granted may be paid out in cash.
     (c) Each Company Employee Benefit Plan that is intended to be "qualified" within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Code ("") has received or been the subject of a favorable determination, advisory or opinion letter from the Internal Revenue Service that has not been revoked, and, to the Company's knowledge, no event has occurred and no condition exists that could reasonably be expected to adversely affect the qualified status of any such Company Employee Benefit Plan.
Qualified Company Employee Benefit Plan
     (d) The Company has (i) filed or caused to be filed all returns and reports on the Company Employee Benefit Plans that it and/or any such plan are required to file and (ii) paid or made adequate provision for all fees, interest, penalties, assessments or deficiencies that have become due pursuant to those returns or reports or pursuant to any assessment or adjustment that has been made relating to those returns or reports.
     (e) All Company Welfare Employee Benefit Plans required to comply with the health care continuation coverage ("") provisions of ERISA and the Code have complied with such requirements in all material respects.
COBRA
     (f) Except as, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, (i) each Company Employee Benefit Plan has been operated and administered in all material respects in accordance with its provisions and in compliance with all provisions of ERISA, the Code and all laws and regulations applicable to the Company Employee Benefit Plans; (ii) all contributions required to be made to any Company Employee Benefit Plan (or to any person pursuant to the terms thereof) have been made or the amount of such payment or contribution obligation has been reflected in the Available SEC Reports and (iii) all such contributions representing participant contributions have been made within the time required by Department of Labor regulation section 2510.3-102.
     (g) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has engaged in any prohibited transaction, within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA, as a fiduciary or party in interest with respect to any Company Employee Benefit Plan, and, to the knowledge of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, (x) no prohibited transaction has occurred with respect to any Company Employee Benefit Plan and (y) no fiduciary has any liability for breach of fiduciary duty or any other failure to act or comply in connection with the administration or investment of assets of any Company Employee Benefit Plan.
     (h) During the past five years, neither the Company nor any Company ERISA Affiliate has established, maintained, contributed to, or had an obligation to contribute to, any Company Employee Benefit Plan that is a "multiemployer plan," as that term is defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA, or is subject to Title IV of ERISA, and no liability under Title IV of
 
ERISA (including a liability to pay premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation) has been or is expected to be incurred by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries.
     (i) The Company and the Company Subsidiaries have not offered to provide life, health or medical benefits or insurance coverage to any individual, or to the family members of any individual, for any period extending beyond the termination of the individual's employment, except to the extent required by the COBRA provisions in ERISA and the Code or similar provisions of state law.
     (j) The consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not, either alone or in connection with termination of employment, (i) entitle any current or former employee, independent contractor, director, or officer of the Company or the Company Subsidiaries to severance pay, any change in control payment, or any other material payment, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, (ii) accelerate the time of payment or vesting, change the form or method of payment, or increase the amount of compensation due, any such employee, independent contractor, director, or officer, or (iii) entitle any such employee, independent contractor, director or officer to any gross-up or similar material payment in respect of the excise tax described in Section 4999 of the Code. Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has taken any action that would result in its incurring any obligation for any payments or benefits described in subsections (i), (ii) or (iii) of this (without regard to whether the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated) except to the extent required in a written contract or agreement in existence as of the date of this Agreement.
Section 2.10(j)
     (k) There are no suits, actions, proceedings, investigations, claims or orders pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company, any Company Subsidiary or any Company Employee Benefit Plan related to any Company Employee Benefit Plan (other than claims in the ordinary course of business). No Employee Benefit Plan is subject to any ongoing audit, investigation, or other administrative proceeding of any Governmental Authority, and no Plan is the subject of any pending application for administrative relief under any voluntary compliance program or closing agreement program of the Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Labor.
     (l) The Company has the right to amend or terminate each Company Employee Benefit Plan at any time without incurring any liability other than with respect to benefits that have already accrued under a Company Employee Pension Benefit Plan.
     (m) As used in this Agreement "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ERISA
     (n) All arrangements that could reasonably be deemed "nonqualified deferred compensation" arrangements under Section 409A of the Code ("") are, to the Company's reasonable knowledge, in good faith compliance with Section 409A, and no employee is entitled to a tax gross-up or similar payment for any excise tax that may be due under Section 409A.
Section 409A
 
     SECTION 2.11 .
Board Recommendation; Company Action; Requisite Vote of the Company's Stockholders
     (a) The Board of Directors of the Company has, by resolutions duly adopted by the requisite vote of the directors present at a meeting of such board duly called and held on June 22, 2006 and not subsequently rescinded or modified in any way, unanimously (i) determined that this Agreement, the Merger, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, and the other transactions contemplated hereby are advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders, (ii) approved and adopted this Agreement and approved the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby, (iii) directed that this Agreement be submitted for consideration by the stockholders of the Company and recommended that the stockholders of the Company adopt this Agreement (provided that any change in or modification or rescission of such recommendation by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance with shall not be a breach of the representation in this clause (iii)). The Board of Directors of the Company has received from each Company Financial Advisor an opinion, a written copy of which will be provided to Parent as soon as practicable after the date hereof, solely for informational purposes, to the effect that, as of the date of the opinion, the Merger Consideration to be received in the Merger by holders of Company Common Stock is fair to such holders from a financial point of view. The Company has been authorized by each Company Financial Advisor to include such opinion in its entirety in the Proxy Statement so long as such inclusion is in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Company Financial Advisor and its counsel.
Section 5.8
     (b) The affirmative vote of stockholders of the Company required for adoption of this Agreement and the Merger is and will be no greater than a majority in voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of Company Common Stock (the "").
Required Company Stockholder Vote
     SECTION 2.12 .
Taxes
     (a) Each of the Company and each Company Subsidiary has timely filed all material federal, state, local, and other Tax Returns required to be filed by it in the manner prescribed by applicable law and all such Tax Returns are true, complete and correct in all material respects. All Taxes shown as due on such Tax Returns have been paid in full and the Company and each Company Subsidiary has made adequate provision (or adequate provision has been made on its behalf) for all accrued Taxes not yet due. The accruals and reserves for Taxes reflected in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 are adequate in accordance with GAAP to cover all Taxes accruing through such date. The Company and the Company Subsidiaries have withheld and paid over all material Taxes required to have been withheld and paid over, and complied in all material respects with all information reporting and backup withholding requirements, including the maintenance of required records with respect thereto, in connection with amounts paid or owing to any employee, creditor, independent contractor or other third party. There are no material Liens on any of the assets, rights or properties of the Company or any Company Subsidiary with respect to Taxes, other than Liens for Taxes not yet due and payable or for Taxes that the Company or a Company Subsidiary is contesting in good faith through appropriate proceedings. Except as has not, and would not reasonably be expected to have, a Company Material Adverse Effect, all hedging transactions entered into by the
 
Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries have been properly identified for federal income tax purposes.
     (b) As of the date of this Agreement, no material federal, state, local or foreign audits or other administrative proceedings or court proceedings are presently pending with regard to any Taxes or Tax Returns of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, and neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has received a written notice of any material pending or proposed claims, audits or proceedings with respect to Taxes. No material deficiencies have been asserted in writing against the Company or any Company Subsidiary as a result of examinations by any state, local, federal or foreign taxing authority and no material issue has been raised by any examination conducted by any state, local, federal or foreign taxing authority that, by application of the same principles, might result in a proposed deficiency for any other period not so examined which deficiency (or deficiencies), in either case, is not (or are not) adequately reserved for in the most recent Company Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP. Each material deficiency resulting from any audit or examination relating to Taxes of the Company or any Company Subsidiary by any taxing authority has been paid or is being contested in good faith and in accordance with law and is adequately reserved for on the balance sheets contained in the Company Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP. No claim is pending and no claim has ever been made that has not been resolved by an authority in a jurisdiction where the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries does not file Tax Returns that the Company or any Company Subsidiary, as the case may be, is or may be subject to Tax in that jurisdiction. Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is subject to any private letter ruling of the Internal Revenue Service or comparable rulings of other tax authorities that will be binding on the Company or any Company Subsidiary with respect to any period following the Closing Date. Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has granted any material power of attorney which is currently in force with respect to any income, franchise or similar Taxes or any income, franchise or similar Tax Returns.
     (c) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has requested any extension of time within which to file any material Tax Return which Tax Return has not yet been filed. There are no agreements, waivers of statutes of limitations, or other arrangements providing for extensions of time in respect of the assessment or collection of any unpaid Taxes against the Company or any Company Subsidiary. The Company and each Company Subsidiary have disclosed on their federal income tax returns all positions taken therein that could, if not so disclosed, give rise to a substantial understatement penalty within the meaning of Section 6662 of the Code. Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has been a party to a "listed transaction" within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Sec. 1.6011-4(b).
     (d) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a party to any Tax sharing agreement, Tax indemnity obligation or similar agreement, arrangement or practice with respect to Taxes (including any advance pricing agreement, closing agreement or other agreement relating to Taxes with any taxing authority).
     (e) Except as set forth on Schedule 2.10(j) hereof, neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a party to any agreement, contract, or arrangement that, individually or collectively, would give rise to the payment of any amount (whether in cash or property, including shares of capital stock) that would not be deductible pursuant to the terms of Section
 
280G of the Code or would be subject to the excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code, or, to the knowledge of the Company, that would not be deductible pursuant to the terms of Sections 162(a)(1), 162(m) or 162(n) of the Code.
     (f) Neither the Company nor any affiliate of the Company has made with respect to the Company, any Company Subsidiary, or any assets held by the Company or any Company Subsidiary any consent under Section 341 of the Code.
     (g) There was no "agreement, understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations" (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.355-7(h)(1)) regarding the acquisition that is subject to this Agreement or a similar acquisition (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.355-7(h)(12)) at any time during the two-year period ending on the date of the distribution by the Company of the Class B common stock of Tronox Incorporated to the shareholders of the Company.
     (h) The statutes of limitations for the federal income Tax Returns of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have expired or otherwise have been closed for all taxable periods ending on or before December 31, 1996.
     (i) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a party to any safe harbor lease within the meaning of Section 168(f)(8) of the Code, as in effect prior to amendment by The Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982. None of the property owned by the Company or a Company Subsidiary is "tax-exempt use property" within the meaning of Section 168(h) of the Code. Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is required to make any adjustment under Code Section 481(a) by reason of a change in accounting method or otherwise.
     (j) Except as disclosed in Section 2.12(j) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, there have not been, within two years of the date of this Agreement, any (i) redemptions by the Company or any Company Subsidiary other than purchases of common stock of the Company pursuant to tender offers or open market purchase, (ii) transfers or disposition of property by the Company or any Company Subsidiary for which the Company or the Company Subsidiary did not receive adequate consideration, or (iii) distributions to the holders of Company Common Stock with respect to their stock other than distributions of cash in the ordinary course of business.
     (k) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has been a member of an affiliated group filing a consolidated federal income Tax Return (other than a group the common parent of which was the Company. To the knowledge of the Company, neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary has been notified in writing that it will be required to incur any material liability for Taxes of any person (other than the Company or a Company Subsidiary) under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any similar provision of state, local or foreign law) with respect to any Tax claim that has been made by a Taxing authority with respect to such other person as a transferee or successor, by contract or otherwise.
     (l) None of the Company or any Company Subsidiary will be required to include any material item of income in, or exclude any item of deduction from, taxable income for any taxable period (or portion thereof) ending after the Closing Date as a result of any: (i) change in
 
method of accounting for a taxable period ending on or prior to the Closing Date; (ii) "closing agreement" as described in Section 7121 of the Code (or any corresponding or similar provision of state, local, or foreign income Tax law) executed on or prior to the Closing Date; or (iii) open transaction disposition made on or prior to the Closing Date.
     (m) As used in this Agreement "" means (i) all taxes, levies or other like assessments, charges or fees (including estimated taxes, charges and fees), including, without limitation, income, franchise, profits, corporations, advance corporation, gross receipts, transfer, excise, property, sales, use value-added, ad valorem, license, capital, wage, employment, payroll, withholding, social security, severance, occupation, import, custom, stamp, alternative, add-on minimum, environmental or other governmental taxes or charges, imposed by the United States or any state, county, local or foreign government or subdivision or agency thereof, including any interest, penalties or additions to tax applicable or related thereto; (ii) all liability for the payment of any amounts of the type described in clause (i) as the result of being a member of an affiliated, consolidated, combined or unitary group; and (iii) all liability for the payment of any amounts as a result of an express or implied obligation to indemnify any other person with respect to the payment of any amounts of the type described in clause (i) or clause (ii). As used in this Agreement, "" means any report, return, statement, declaration or other written information required to be supplied to a taxing or other Governmental Authority in connection with Taxes including any schedules or attachments thereto, including any amendments thereto, and including any information returns.
Taxes
Tax Return
     SECTION 2.13 .
Environmental Matters
     Except as, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect:
     (a) To the Company's knowledge, there are no conditions existing on any real property owned, leased or operated by the Company or any Company Subsidiary that give rise to any or would reasonably be expected to constitute a violation of or result in any liability under any Environmental Law (as defined below), and the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have been and are otherwise in compliance in all material respects with all applicable Environmental Laws and there are no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened demands, claims, information requests or notices of non-compliance or violation regarding the Company or any Company Subsidiary relating to any liability under any Environmental Law.
     (b) Intentionally Omitted.
     (c) Neither the Company, any Company Subsidiary nor any real property owned, leased or operated by the Company or any Company Subsidiary, is subject to any pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, investigation, inquiry, notice of non-compliance, request for information or proceeding relating to any liability under any Environmental Laws.
     (d) All permits, notices, approvals and authorizations, if any, required to be obtained or filed in connection with the operation of the Company's and the Company Subsidiaries' businesses and the operation or use of any property or facility owned, leased or operated by the
 
Company or any Company Subsidiary, including all permits, notices, approvals and authorizations pertaining to the past and present generation, treatment, storage, disposal or release of a Hazardous Substance, have been duly obtained or filed, are currently in effect, and the Company and the Company Subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such permits, notices, approvals and authorizations. The transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not result in the non-renewal, revocation, expiration, withdrawal or termination of any such permits, notices, approvals or authorizations.
     (e) Other than acquisitions and divestitures in the ordinary course of business, none of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries has assumed, contractually or, to the knowledge of the Company, is reasonably expected to be responsible by operation of law, for any liabilities or obligations of third parties under any Environmental Laws or any legal principle including fraudulent conveyance and piercing the corporate veil.
     (f) As used in this Agreement, (i) "" means any federal, foreign, state and local law or legal requirement, including regulations, orders, permits, licenses, approvals, ordinances, directives and the common law, pertaining to pollution, the environment, the protection of the environment or human health and safety, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (""), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (""), the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Atomic Energy Act, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act and any similar federal, foreign, state or local law and (ii) "" means (a) any "hazardous substance," as defined by CERCLA, (b) any "hazardous waste," as defined by RCRA, and (c) any pollutant, contaminant, waste or hazardous, dangerous or toxic chemical, material or substance, including asbestos, buried contaminants, regulated chemicals, flammable explosives, radiation and radioactive materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, petroleum and petroleum products and by-products, lead, pesticides, natural gas, and nuclear fuel, all within the meaning of any applicable law of any applicable Governmental Authority relating to or imposing liability or standards of conduct pertaining thereto, all as amended or hereafter amended.
Environmental Laws
RCRA
CERCLA
Hazardous Substance
     SECTION 2.14 .
Compliance with Laws
     Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable laws, rules or regulations of any United States federal, state or local or foreign government or agency thereof that materially affect the business, properties or assets owned or leased by the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, and no written notice, charge, claim, action or assertion has been received by the Company or any Company Subsidiary or, to the Company's knowledge, filed, commenced or threatened in writing against the Company or any Company Subsidiary alleging any such non-compliance. All licenses, permits and approvals required under such laws, rules and regulations are in full force and effect, except where the failure to be obtained or to be in full force and effect, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no representation or warranty in this is made with
Section 2.14
 
respect to permits issued under or matters relating to Environmental Laws, which are covered exclusively by the provisions set forth in .
Section 2.13
     SECTION 2.15 .
Employment Matters
     (a) Neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is a party to or otherwise bound by any collective bargaining agreement, contract or other agreement or understanding with a labor union or labor organization, nor is any such contract or agreement presently being negotiated, nor, to the knowledge of the Company, is there, nor has there been in the last five years, a representation campaign respecting any of the employees of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries, and, to the knowledge of the Company, there are no campaigns being conducted to solicit cards from employees of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries to authorize representation by any labor organization. Except as individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary (i) is a party to, or bound by, any consent decree with, or citation by, any Governmental Authority relating to employees or employment practices or (ii) is the subject of any proceeding asserting that it has committed an unfair labor practice or is seeking to compel it to bargain with any labor union or labor organization nor, as of the date of this Agreement, is there pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, any labor strike, dispute, walkout, work stoppage, slow-down or lockout involving the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries.
     (a) In the 90 day period preceding the date of this Agreement, neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries has effectuated (i) a "plant closing" (as defined in the WARN Act), affecting any site of employment or one or more facilities or operating units within any site of employment or facility of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries, or (ii) a "mass layoff" (as defined in the WARN Act) affecting any site of employment or facility of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries; nor has the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries been affected by any transaction or engaged in layoffs or employment terminations sufficient in number to trigger application of any state, local or foreign law or regulation similar to the WARN Act. Section 2.15(b) of the Company Disclosure Letter lists the number of the Company's or the Company Subsidiaries' employees who have suffered an "employment loss" (as defined in the WARN Act) in the 90 days prior to the date of this Agreement or had a reduction in hours of at least 50% in the 180 days prior to the date of this Agreement. To the knowledge of the Company, the Company and the Company Subsidiaries have at all times properly classified each of their respective employees as employees, each of their respective leased employees (within the meaning of Section 414(n) of the Code) as leased employees, and each of its independent contractors as independent contractors, as applicable. As used in the Agreement, "" means the Workers Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act. of 1989, as amended.
WARN Act
     SECTION 2.16 .
Regulatory Matters
     Neither the Company nor any of the Company Subsidiaries is (i) an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or (ii) a "holding company," a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company," an
 
"affiliate" of a "holding company," or a public utility," as each such term is defined in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, as amended.
     SECTION 2.17 .
Reserve Reports
     Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, the factual, non-interpretive data on which the Company's estimates of proved oil and gas reserves attributable to the Oil and Gas Interests of the Company were based in connection with the preparation by the Company of the proved oil and gas reserve reports concerning the Oil and Gas Interests of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 was (at the time included or as modified or amended prior to the issuance of the Company Reserve Report) accurate. Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. reviewed the procedures and methods used by the Company to prepare the estimates of approximately 76% of the Company's total proved reserves as of December 31, 2005. The estimates of proved oil and gas reserves used by the Company and any information provided to Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. as part of their procedures and methods review by or on behalf of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries in connection with such firm's review of the Company Reserve Report are in accordance with the definitions contained in Rule 4-10(a) of Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means direct and indirect interests in and rights with respect to oil, gas, mineral, and related properties and assets of any kind and nature, direct or indirect, including working, leasehold and mineral interests and operating rights and royalties, overriding royalties, production payments, net profit interests and other non-working interests and non-operating interests; Hydrocarbons and other minerals or revenues therefrom, all contracts in connection therewith and claims and rights thereto (including all oil and gas leases, operating agreements, unitization and pooling agreements and orders, division orders, transfer orders, mineral deeds, royalty deeds, oil and gas sales, exchange and processing contracts and agreements, and in each case, interests thereunder), surface interests, fee interests, reversionary interests, reservations, and concessions; all easements, rights of way, licenses, permits, leases, and other interests associated with, appurtenant to, or necessary for the operation of any of the foregoing; and all interests in equipment and machinery (including wells, well equipment and machinery), oil and gas production, gathering, transmission, treating, processing, and storage facilities (including tanks, tank batteries, pipelines, and gathering systems), pumps, water plants, electric plants, gasoline and gas processing plants, refineries, and other tangible personal property and fixtures associated with, appurtenant to, or necessary for the operation of any of the foregoing. Except for changes generally affecting the oil and gas industry (including changes in commodity prices), there has been no change in respect of the matters addressed in the Company Reserve Report that would have a Company Material Adverse Effect. For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, with respect to any Person, crude oil, natural gas, casinghead gas, condensate, sulphur, natural gas liquids, plant products and other liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons produced in association therewith (including coalbed gas and carbon dioxide), and all other minerals of every kind and character which may be covered by or included in or attributable to any of the properties of such Person or any of such Person's Subsidiaries.
Oil and Gas Interests
Hydrocarbons
 
     SECTION 2.18 .
Hedging
     The Company SEC Reports accurately summarize the outstanding Hydrocarbon and financial Hedging positions attributable to the production of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries as of the date reflected therein, and there have been no changes since the date thereof, except for changes in financial Hedging positions occurring in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with the Company's policies, such as derivative activity supporting third party marketing, the expiration of contracts by their terms and valuation changes due to market price fluctuations. For purposes of this Agreement, a "" mean a derivative transaction within the coverage of SFAS No. 133, including any swap transaction, option, warrant, forward purchase or sale transaction, futures transaction, cap transaction, floor transaction or collar transaction relating to one or more currencies, commodities, bonds, equity securities, loans, interest rates, credit-related events or conditions or any indexes, or any other similar transaction (including any option with respect to any of these transactions) or combination of any of these transactions, including collateralized mortgage obligations or other similar instruments or any debt or equity instruments evidencing or embedding any such types of transactions, and any related credit support, collateral, transportation or other similar arrangements related to such transactions.
Hedge
     SECTION 2.19 .
Properties
     Except as, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect (i) except for goods and other property sold, used or otherwise disposed of since December 31, 2005 in the ordinary course of business, as of the date hereof, considered in the aggregate the Company has good and defensible title for oil and gas purposes to all of the Oil and Gas Interests reflected in the Company's December 31, 2005 financial statements included in the Company SEC Reports, and to all other properties, interests in properties and assets, real and personal, free and clear of any Lien, except: (a) Liens reflected in the balance sheet of the Company as of December 31, 2005 included in the Company SEC Reports; (b) Liens for current taxes not yet due and payable; and (c) such imperfections of title, easements, restrictive covenants and other Liens that do not interfere with the Company's ability to conduct its business as currently conducted; (ii) all leases and other agreements pursuant to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries leases or otherwise acquires or obtains operating rights affecting any real or personal property are in good standing, valid, and effective; and there is not, under any such leases, any existing or prospective default or event of default or event which with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries; and (iii) all significant operating equipment of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries is in good operating condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
     SECTION 2.20 .
Natural Gas Act
     Any gas gathering system constituting a part of the properties of the Company or the Company Subsidiaries and material to the operations of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise has as its primary function the provision of natural gas gathering services, as the term "gathering" is interpreted under Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (""); none of the properties have been or are certificated by the Federal
NGA
 
Energy Regulatory Commission ("") under Section 7(c) of the NGA or to the knowledge of the Company are now subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA; and none of the properties have been or are providing service pursuant to Section 311 of the NGA.
FERC
     SECTION 2.21 .
Insurance
     The Company has made available to Parent prior to the date hereof a complete schedule of all insurance policies held by either the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries. All such insurance policies are in full force and effect and all related premiums have been paid to date.
     SECTION 2.22 .
Material Contracts
     Except for this Agreement, as of the date hereof, none of the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party to or bound by any "material contract" (as such term is defined in item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC) that is not filed as an exhibit to an Available SEC Report. Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any Company Subsidiary is in breach or default under any "material contract" to which the Company or a Company Subsidiary is a party nor, to the knowledge of the Company, is any other party to any such contract in breach or default thereunder.
     SECTION 2.23 .
Section 203 of the DGCL; Rights Agreement
     The Board of Directors of the Company has taken all action necessary to exempt under and not make subject to (a) the prohibitions on "business combinations" under Section 203 of the DGCL, (b) any other state takeover law or state law that purports to limit or restrict business combinations or the ability to acquire or vote shares or (c) any provision of the Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws (including Article Thirteenth of the Company's Certificate of Incorporation) that would require any corporate approval other than that otherwise required by Section 251 of the DGCL: (i) the execution of this Agreement, (ii) the Merger, and (iii) the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Merger. The Company has taken and as soon as practicable after the date hereof (but in no event later than three Business Days after the date hereof), the Rights Agent (as defined in the Rights Agreement) will take, all actions necessary or appropriate to amend the Rights Agreement so that (a) the term "" (as defined in the Rights Agreement) shall mean July 22, 2016, (b) none of Parent or Merger Sub nor any "affiliate" or "associate" thereof (as defined in the Rights Agreement) is an "", and no "" or "" (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement) or event to which Section 11(a)(ii) or Section 13 thereof would otherwise be applicable will occur as a result of the execution or delivery of this Agreement or the consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and (c) the Rights Agreement will terminate and the Company Rights will expire immediately prior to the Effective Time. The Rights Agreement, as so amended, will not be further amended or modified. True and complete copies of the Rights Agreement and all such proposed amendments have been previously provided to Parent.
Final Expiration Date
Acquiring Person
Stock Acquisition Date
Distribution Date
 
     SECTION 2.24 .
FCPA
     To the Company's knowledge, during past five years, neither the Company, nor any Company Subsidiary or officer, director, employee or agent of the Company or a Company Subsidiary, has committed any act or made any omission prohibited by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (15 U.S.C.  78m, 78dd-1, -2 and -3) ("") or applicable anti-bribery laws of any other country.
FCPA
     Parent and Merger Sub hereby jointly and severally represent and warrant to the Company that:
     SECTION 3.1 .
Organization
     Parent and each of the Subsidiaries of Parent (including Merger Sub) (the "") is a corporation, limited liability company or partnership duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all requisite entity power and authority to own, operate and lease its properties and to carry on its business as now conducted. Parent and each of the Parent Subsidiaries is duly qualified and/or licensed, as may be required, and in good standing in each of the jurisdictions in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character of the property owned, leased or used by it makes such qualification and/or licensing necessary, except in such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified and/or licensed, individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. A "" means a material adverse effect on the ability of Parent or Merger Sub to perform their obligations under this Agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The copies of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Parent which are incorporated by reference as exhibits to Parent's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 are complete and correct copies of such documents and contain all amendments thereto as in effect on the date of this Agreement.
Parent Subsidiaries
Parent Material Adverse Effect
     SECTION 3.2 .
Authorization; No Conflict
     (a) Each of Parent and Merger Sub has the requisite corporate power and authority to enter into and deliver this Agreement and all other agreements and documents contemplated hereby to which it is a party and to carry out its obligations hereunder and thereunder. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent and Merger Sub, the performance by Parent and Merger Sub of their respective obligations hereunder and the consummation by Parent and Merger Sub of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by the respective Boards of Directors of each of Parent and Merger Sub, and no other corporate proceedings on the part of Parent, Merger Sub or any of the Parent Subsidiaries (including any vote of any class or series of outstanding capital stock) are necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the performance by Parent and Merger Sub of their respective obligations hereunder and the consummation by Parent and Merger Sub of the transactions contemplated hereby other than the adoption of this Agreement by Parent as the sole stockholder of Merger Sub. This
 
Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Parent and Merger Sub and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Parent and Merger Sub, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
     (b) The Board of Directors of Parent has, by resolutions duly adopted by the requisite vote of the directors present at a meeting of such board duly called and held on June 22, 2006 and not subsequently rescinded or modified in any way, unanimously (i) approved this Agreement, the Merger and (ii) determined that this Agreement and Merger are in the best interest of Parent's stockholders. No vote of the holders of Parent common stock, par value $.10 per share, or other securities of Parent is necessary to consummate the Merger.
     (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent or Merger Sub, nor the consummation by Parent or Merger Sub of the transactions contemplated hereby nor compliance by Parent or Merger Sub with any of the provisions herein will (i) result in a violation or breach of or conflict with the certificate or articles of incorporation or bylaws of Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries, (ii) result in a violation or breach of or conflict with any provisions of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a default) under, or result in the termination, cancellation of, or give rise to a right of purchase under, or accelerate the performance required by, or result in a right of termination or acceleration under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets owned or operated by Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries under, or result in being declared void, voidable, or without further binding effect, or otherwise result in a detriment to the Parent or any Parent Subsidiary under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, contract, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation of any kind to which Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries is a party or by which Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets may be bound or (iii) subject to obtaining or making the consents, approvals, orders, authorizations, registrations, declarations and filings referred to in paragraph (d) below, violate any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction, decree, statute, law, rule or regulation applicable to Parent or any of the Parent Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets other than any such event described in items (ii) or (iii) which, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
     (d) No consent, approval, order or authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any Governmental Authority is necessary to be obtained or made by Parent, any Parent Subsidiary or Merger Sub in connection with Parent's or Merger Sub's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation by Parent or Merger Sub of the transactions contemplated hereby, except for (i) compliance with the DGCL, with respect to the filing of the Certificate of Merger, (ii) compliance with the HSR Act, the Competition Act, and applicable foreign competition and antitrust laws, if any, (iii) the filing with the SEC of the Proxy Statement and such reports under Section 13(a), 13(d), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Exchange Act as may be required in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, (iv) compliance with the rules of the NYSE, and (v) Customary Post Closing Consents, except where the failure to obtain or take such action, individually or in the aggregate, has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
 
     SECTION 3.3 .
Information Supplied
     None of the information supplied or to be supplied by Parent specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement will, at the date it is first mailed to the Company's stockholders or at the time of the Company Stockholders Meeting contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. No representation or warranty is made by Parent with respect to statements made or incorporated by reference therein based on information supplied by the Company specifically for inclusion or incorporation by reference in the Proxy Statement.
     SECTION 3.4 .
Broker's or Finder's Fees
     Except for UBS Securities LLC, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Goldman Sachs & Co., Inc. (the ""), no agent, broker, Person or firm acting on behalf of Parent or any Parent Subsidiary or under Parent's or any Parent Subsidiary's authority is or will be entitled to any advisory, commission or broker's or finder's fee or commission from any of the parties hereto in connection with any of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Parent Financial Advisors
     SECTION 3.5 .
Financing
     (a) The financing required to consummate the Merger, to refinance all existing indebtedness of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company, in each to the extent required in order to consummate the Merger and the other Transactions, and to pay related fees and expenses is collectively referred to in this Agreement as the "". Parent and Merger Sub received a commitment letter dated June 22, 2006 (the ""), from UBS Securities LLC, UBS Loan Finance LLC, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (the "") relating to the commitment of the Lenders to provide the Financing. Parent has provided the Company with a complete and correct copy of such letter. As of the date of this Agreement, Parent and Merger Sub have no reason to believe that any of the conditions to the Financing will not be satisfied or that the funds for the Financing will not be available on a timely basis for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. At the Effective Time, Parent and Merger Sub will have available all of the funds necessary for the acquisition of all shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Merger and to perform their respective obligations under this Agreement.
Financing
Commitment Letter
Lenders
     (b) Immediately after the Effective Time and after giving effect to any change in the Surviving Corporation's assets and liabilities as a result of the Merger, the Surviving Corporation will not (i) be insolvent (either because its financial condition is such that the sum of its debts is greater than the fair value of its assets or because the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount required to pay its probable liability on existing debts as they mature), (ii) have unreasonably small capital with which to engage in its business or (iii) have incurred liabilities beyond its ability to pay as they become due. For purposes hereof, the Company will be deemed to be "" if any of the conditions described in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above are applicable to the Company prior to the Effective Time.
Insolvent
 
     SECTION 4.1 .
Conduct of Business by the Company Pending the Merger
     The Company covenants and agrees that, prior to the Effective Time, unless Parent shall otherwise consent in writing (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) or except as expressly permitted or required pursuant to this Agreement:
     (a) The businesses of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries shall be conducted only in the ordinary and usual course of business and consistent with past practices, and the Company and the Company Subsidiaries shall use their reasonable best efforts to maintain and preserve intact their respective business organizations, to maintain significant beneficial business relationships with suppliers, contractors, distributors, customers, licensors, licensees and others having business relationships with them and to keep available the services of their current key officers and employees; and
     (b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing , except as set forth in Section 4.1 of the Company Disclosure Letter or as contemplated by this Agreement, the Company shall not directly or indirectly, and shall not permit any of the Company Subsidiaries to, do any of the following:
Section 4.1(a)
     (i) acquire, sell, lease, transfer or dispose of any assets, rights or securities that are material to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as a single enterprise or terminate, cancel, materially modify or enter into any material commitment, transaction, line of business or other agreement, in each case outside of the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or, in the case of acquisitions of oil and gas properties or interests therein, in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate;
     (ii) acquire by merging or consolidating with or by purchasing a substantial equity interest in or a substantial portion of the assets of, or by any other manner, any business, corporation, partnership, association or other business organization or division thereof;
     (iii) amend or propose to amend its certificate of incorporation or bylaws or, in the case of the Company Subsidiaries, their respective constituent documents;
     (iv) except for the Quarterly Dividend, declare, set aside or pay any dividend or other distribution payable in cash, capital stock, property or otherwise with respect to any shares of its capital stock;
     (v) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, or offer to purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, any shares of its capital stock, other equity securities, other ownership interests or any options, warrants or rights to acquire any such stock, securities or interests, other than in connection with the relinquishment of shares by employees and directors of the Company in payment of withholding tax upon the vesting of restricted stock or forfeiture of shares due to termination of employment;
 
     (vi) split, combine or reclassify any outstanding shares of its capital stock;
     (vii) except for the Company Common Stock issuable upon exercise of options outstanding on the date hereof (or granted after the date hereof as permitted by this Agreement) and the vesting of restricted stock awards granted prior to the execution of this Agreement issue, sell, dispose of or authorize, propose or agree to the issuance, sale or disposition by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries of, any shares of, or any options, warrants or rights of any kind to acquire any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for any shares of, its capital stock of any class, or any other securities in respect of, in lieu of, or in substitution for any class of its capital stock outstanding on the date hereof;
     (viii) modify the terms of any existing indebtedness for borrowed money or security issued by the Company or any Company Subsidiary having an aggregate principal amount in excess of $50,000,000 in any respect;
     (ix) incur any indebtedness for borrowed money, except indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business and letters of credit required under the Company's hedging agreements in order to satisfy margin requirements, but only if the amount of such indebtedness (not including such letters of credit), when added to all other indebtedness of the Company then outstanding (determined in accordance with GAAP), does not exceed the Company's indebtedness outstanding as of March 31, 2006 by more than $400,000,000;
     (x) assume, guarantee, endorse or otherwise as an accommodation become responsible for, the obligations of any other Person, or make any loans or advances, except (A) to or for the benefit of the Company Subsidiaries or (B) for those not in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate;
     (xi) create or assume any material Lien on any material asset;
     (xii) authorize, recommend or propose any material change in its capitalization;
     (xiii) except in connection with the routine promotions of employees in Grades 28 and below or to the extent required in a written contract or agreement (including any Company Employee Benefit Plan) in existence as of the date of this Agreement, (A) take any action with respect to the grant of or increase in any severance or termination pay to any current or former director, executive officer or employee of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, (B) execute any employment, deferred compensation or other similar agreement (or any amendment to any such existing agreement) with any such director, executive officer or employee of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, (C) increase the benefits payable under any existing severance or termination pay policies or employment agreements, (D) increase the compensation, bonus or other benefits of current or former directors, executive officers or employees of the Company or any Company Subsidiary, (E) adopt or establish any new employee benefit plan or amend in any material respect any existing employee benefit plan, (F) provide any material benefit to a current or former director, executive officer or employee
 
of the Company or any Company Subsidiary not required by any existing agreement or employee benefit plan, (G) take any action that would result in its incurring any obligation for any payments or benefits described in subsections (i), (ii) or (iii) of (without regard to whether the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated) except to the extent required in a written contract or agreement in existence as of the date of this Agreement, or (H) take any action that would result in any plan, program or agreement violating Section 409A or provide any employee entitlement to a tax gross-up or similar payment for any excise tax that may be due under Section 409A;
Section 2.10(j)
     (xiv) execute or amend (other than as required by existing employee benefit plans or employment agreements or by applicable law) in any material respect any employment, consulting, severance or indemnification agreement between the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries and any of their respective directors, officers, agents, consultants or employees, or any collective bargaining agreement or other obligation to any labor organization or employee incurred or entered into by the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries (other than as required by existing employee benefit plans or employment agreements or by applicable law);
     (xv) except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, make any changes in its reporting for taxes or accounting methods other than as required by GAAP or applicable law; make or rescind any Tax election or file any material amended Tax return; make any change to its method or reporting income, deductions, or other Tax items for Tax purposes; settle or compromise any Tax liability or enter into any transaction with an affiliate outside the ordinary course of business if such transaction would give rise to a material tax liability;
     (xvi) settle, compromise or otherwise resolve any litigation or other legal proceedings except (A) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and (B) only to the extent that the aggregate of all such settlements or payments would not result in liability to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries in excess of the amount reserved for such litigation and legal proceedings so settled, compromised or resolved reflected on the most recent balance sheet included in the Company Financial Statements plus $10,000,000;
     (xvii) other than in the ordinary course of business, pay or discharge any claims, Liens or liabilities involving more than $2,500,000 individually or $10,000,000 in the aggregate, which are not reserved for or reflected on the balance sheets included in the Company Financial Statements;
     (xviii) write off any accounts or notes receivable in excess of $2,500,000;
     (xix) make or commit to make capital expenditures in excess of the aggregate budgeted amount set forth in the Company's fiscal 2006 capital expenditure plan previously provided to Parent, except as may be required to (A) continue operations on the drilling, completion or plugging of any well or any well operations for which the Company has consented to participate and is required to continue to participate pursuant
 
to applicable agreements or (B) conduct emergency operations on any well pipeline or other facility;
     (xx) except for derivative activity supporting third party marketing, make or assume any Hedges;
     (xxi) enter into new contracts to sell Hydrocarbons other than in the ordinary course of business at market pricing, but in no event any having a duration longer than six months;
     (xxii) fail to timely meet its royalty payment obligations in connection with its oil and gas leases to the extent such failure has or would reasonably be expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect;
     (xxiii) enter into any agreement, arrangement or commitment that materially limits or otherwise materially restricts the Company or any Company Subsidiary, or that would reasonably be expected to, after the Effective Time, materially limit or restrict Parent or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective affiliates or any successor thereto, from engaging or competing in any line of business in which it is currently engaged or in any geographic area material to the business or operations of Parent or any of its Subsidiaries;
     (xxiv) except in the ordinary course of business, consistent with past practice, terminate, amend, modify or waive any provision of any confidentiality or standstill agreement to which it is a party;
     (xxv) take any action that would give rise to a claim under the WARN Act or any similar state law or regulation because of a "plant closing" or "mass layoff" (each as defined in the WARN Act) without in good faith attempting to comply with the WARN Act;
     (xxvi) organize or acquire any Person that would become a Subsidiary;
     (xxvii) enter into any commitment or agreement to license or purchase seismic data that will cost in excess of the aggregate budgeted amount set forth I the Company's fiscal 2006 plan previously provided to Parent, other than pursuant to agreements or commitments existing on the date hereof;
     (xxviii) except for the amendments described in , amend, modify or waive any provision of the Rights Agreement or take any action to redeem the Company Rights or render the Company Rights inapplicable to any transaction other than the Merger unless, and only to the extent that, the Company is required to do so by order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
Section 2.23
     (xxix) grant approval for purposes of Section 203 of the DGCL of any "business combination" or any acquisition of "voting stock" of the Company, each as defined in Section 203 of the DGCL;
 
     (xxx) adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation, dissolution, or reorganization;
     (xxxi) except as permitted by , knowingly take, or agree to commit to take, any action that would or would reasonably be expected to result in the failure of a condition set forth in or at, or as of any time prior to, the Effective Time, or that would materially impair the ability of the Company, Parent, Merger Sub or the holders of shares of Company Common Stock to consummate the Merger in accordance with the terms hereof or materially delay such consummation;
Section 5.8
Section 6.2(a)
(b)
     (xxxii) release any third party from the confidentiality and standstill provisions of any agreement to which the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries is a party, and the Company and Company Subsidiaries shall enforce any such provisions contained in such agreements and not waive any of the provisions thereof; or
     (xxxiii) take or agree in writing or otherwise to take any of the actions precluded by or .
Sections 4.1(a)
(b)
     SECTION 4.2 . Except as expressly permitted or required by this Agreement, prior to the Effective Time, neither Parent nor any of its Subsidiaries, without the prior written consent of the Company, shall:
Conduct of Business by Parent
     (a) acquire, by merging or consolidating with, or by purchasing an equity interest in or the assets of or by any other manner, any business or corporation, partnership or other business organization or division thereof, or otherwise acquire any assets of any other entity (other than the purchase of assets from suppliers, clients or vendors in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) if such transaction would reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect or materially delay the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
     (b) adopt or propose to adopt any amendments to its charter documents which would reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect;
     (c) adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation or dissolution of Parent;
     (d) knowingly take, or agree to commit to take, any action that would or would reasonably be expected to result in the failure of a condition set forth in or at, or as of any time prior to, the Effective Time, or that would materially impair the ability of the Company, Parent, Merger Sub or the holders of shares of Company Common Stock to consummate the Merger in accordance with the terms hereof or materially delay such consummation; or
Section 6.3(a)
(b)
     (e) take or agree in writing or otherwise to take any of the actions precluded by through .
Section 4.2(a)
Section 4.2(e)
 
     SECTION 5.1 .
Preparation of Proxy Statement; Stockholders Meetings
     (a) Within five Business Days of the date of this Agreement, the Company shall prepare and file with the SEC the Proxy Statement in preliminary form. Parent, Merger Sub and the Company will cooperate with each other in the preparation of the Proxy Statement; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Parent and Merger Sub, will furnish to the Company the information relating to Parent and Merger Sub required by the Exchange Act to be set forth in the Proxy Statement, and Parent and its counsel shall be given the opportunity to review and comment on the Proxy Statement prior to the filing thereof with the SEC. The Company agrees to use its reasonable best efforts, after consultation with the other parties hereto, to respond promptly to any comments made by the SEC with respect to the Proxy Statement. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Proxy Statement to be mailed to its stockholders as promptly as practicable following the filing thereof in definitive form with the SEC. The Company will advise Parent promptly after it receives notice of any request by the SEC for amendment of the Proxy Statement or comments thereon and responses thereto or requests by the SEC for additional information. If at any time prior to the Effective Time any information relating to the Company or Parent, or any of their respective affiliates, officers or directors, should be discovered by the Company or Parent which should be set forth in an amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement, so that any of such documents would not include any misstatement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, the party which discovers such information shall promptly notify the other parties hereto and an appropriate amendment or supplement describing such information shall be promptly filed with the SEC and, to the extent required by law, disseminated to the stockholders of the Company. The Company shall not mail any Proxy Statement, or any amendment or supplement thereto, to which Parent reasonably objects.
     (b) The Company shall, as soon as practicable after the date hereof, and in accordance with the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable law, establish a record date (which will be as soon as practicable after the date hereof) for, duly call, give notice of a meeting of its stockholders (the "") solely for the purpose of considering and taking action upon this Agreement regardless of whether the Board of Directors of the Company determines at any time that this Agreement or the Merger is no longer advisable or recommends that the stockholders of the Company reject this Agreement or the Merger. Unless the Board of Directors of the Company has withdrawn its recommendation of this Agreement, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby in compliance with in circumstances where a Takeover Proposal is outstanding, (1) as soon as practicable following the date on which the Proxy Statement is mailed to the Company's stockholders, the Company shall convene and hold the Company Stockholders Meeting and (2) once the Company Stockholders Meeting has been called and noticed, the Company shall not postpone or adjourn the Company Stockholders Meeting without the consent of Parent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed (other than (i) for the absence of a quorum or (ii) to allow reasonable additional time for the filing and mailing of any supplemental or amended disclosure which it believes in good faith is necessary under applicable law and for such
Company Stockholders Meeting
Section 5.8
 
supplemental or amended disclosure to be disseminated and reviewed by the Company's stockholders prior to the Company Stockholders Meeting; provided that in the event that the Company Stockholders Meeting is delayed to a date after the Termination Date (as defined in ) as a result of either (i) or (ii) above, then the Termination Date shall be extended to the fifth Business Day after such date). The Board of Directors of the Company shall declare that this Agreement and the Merger are advisable and in the best interests of the Company and recommend that this Agreement be adopted by the stockholders of the Company and include in the Proxy Statement a copy of such recommendations; provided that the Board of Directors of the Company may withdraw, modify or change such recommendation in compliance with . Unless the Board of Directors of the Company has withdrawn its recommendations of this Agreement, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby in compliance with , the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to solicit from stockholders of the Company proxies in favor of the adoption of this Agreement and shall take all other action necessary or advisable to secure the vote or consent of stockholders required by applicable law to effect the Merger.
Section 7.1(b)
Section 5.8
Section 5.8
     (c) Parent shall cause all shares of Company Common Stock owned by Parent, Merger Sub or any Parent Subsidiary to be voted in favor of the adoption of the Agreement.
     SECTION 5.2 .
Employee Benefit Matters
     From and after the Effective Time, Parent and the Surviving Corporation shall have the rights and obligations described in this Section 5.2 regarding the individuals who were employees of the Company or a Company Subsidiary immediately prior to the Effective Time ("").
Acquired Employees
     (a) . All Acquired Employees shall be employed solely on an "at will" basis, except to the extent required by the provisions of written employment contracts or as required by applicable law.
Employment
     (b) . The Surviving Corporation shall assume the Company Employee Benefit Plans as of the Effective Time and operate such plans in accordance with their respective terms, and the Company shall take any steps necessary to permit such assumption. Acquired Employees shall continue after the Effective Time to participate in such assumed Company Employee Benefit Plans. At such time as determined by Parent or the Surviving Corporation with Parent's approval, Acquired Employees shall participate in Parent's compensation, severance, bonus, stock option and other incentive plans for which they are eligible pursuant to the terms and conditions of such plans, or in similar plans maintained by the Surviving Corporation, in each case consistent with the participation offered to Parent's employees holding similar positions. Each such plan shall grant credit to each Acquired Employee for all service prior to the Effective Time with the Company (including any predecessors) for purposes of vesting, eligibility to participate, and eligibility for early retirement subsidies and vacation time, but not for purposes of benefit accrual, except as provided in . No Acquired Employee shall be simultaneously covered under similar employee benefit plans of Parent or the Surviving Corporation and of the Company. Nothing in this shall restrict in any manner the right of Parent or the Surviving Corporation to amend or terminate any assumed Company Employee Benefit Plan or to modify any compensation arrangement of any Acquired
Benefit Plans
Section 5.2(d)
Section 5.2
 
Employee for any reason at any time (in each case subject to the provisions of any written employment contracts); , that the post-retirement health benefits plans of the Company shall be continued unchanged (except as required by law) at least until the earlier of the third anniversary of the Effective Time or the date on which Parent terminates all post-retirement health benefits plan; and provided, further, that the severance and retention benefit plans of the Company shall be continued unchanged (except as required by law) at least until the first anniversary of the Effective Time.
provided, however
     (c) . During the plan year in which the Effective Time occurs, any group health plan established or maintained by Parent or the Surviving Corporation shall, with respect to any eligible Acquired Employee or, as applicable, a family member of an eligible Acquired Employee, (i) waive any waiting period, (ii) waive any exclusion or limitation for preexisting conditions which were covered under any group health plan maintained by the Company prior to the Effective Time, (iii) grant credit (for purposes of annual deductibles, co-payments and out-of-pocket limits) for any covered claims incurred or payments made prior to the Effective Time, and (iv) accept rollovers of the health flexible spending account and dependent care accounts of eligible Acquired Employees.
Group Health Plans
     (d) . If the current Qualified Company Employee Benefit Plan that is subject to Title IV of ERISA (the "") is merged into the qualified defined benefit plan of Parent (the "") and the Parent Defined Benefit Plan has not previously been terminated or frozen for purposes of future benefit accruals, (i) all participants in the Company Defined Benefit Plan will participate in the Parent Defined Benefit Plan and shall accrue benefits beginning immediately following the merger of the plans to the same extent as similarly-situated participants in the Parent Defined Benefit Plan who are not Acquired Employees and (ii) benefits for Acquired Employees under the merged plan shall be determined using a "two piece" benefit formula, using for purposes of calculating the benefit under both pieces the participant's compensation at any time before or after the effective date of the plan merger (the ""). The first piece of the benefit will be calculated using the formula under the Company Defined Benefit Plan and shall use, for purposes of the calculation, all service with the Company, Parent or its affiliates prior to the "Plan Merger Date" but no service after the Plan Merger Date, and the second piece will be calculated using the formula under the Parent Defined Benefit Plan that applies to similarly- situated plan participants who are not Acquired Employees and shall use, for purposes of the calculation, all service with the Company, Parent of any of their affiliates after the Plan Merger Date, but no service prior to the Plan Merger Date. The formula used for calculating benefits under the Company Defined Benefit Plan shall not be amended after the Effective Time, and the Company Defined Benefit Plan shall not be terminated or frozen for purposes of future benefit accruals before the effective date as of which Parent terminates or freezes all future accruals under, as the case may be, all of its tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plans. For the avoidance of doubt, no Acquired Employee shall accrue benefits under both the Company Defined Benefit Plan and the Parent Defined Benefit Plan for the same period of service.
Qualified Defined Benefit Plans
Company Defined Benefit Plan
Parent Defined Benefit Plan
Plan Merger
     (e) . As soon as practicable following the Effective Time, Parent or the Surviving Corporation shall calculate the compensation accrued under the SCORE Compensation Program as of the Effective Time. The amount due under the SCORE Compensation Program shall be paid to an Acquired Employee on the earliest to occur of (i) the
SCORE Compensation Program
 
Acquired Employee's involuntary termination of employment other than for cause, (ii) the date that Parent or the Surviving Corporation pay their 2006 annual incentive compensation, or (iii) March 15, 2007. If, before December 31, 2006, an Acquired Employee terminates employment voluntarily (other than through retirement within the meaning of the SCORE Compensation Program) or is terminated for cause, no payment shall be made under the SCORE Compensation Program. The Acquired Employees who remain employed by Parent or the Surviving Corporation through December 31, 2006, shall receive an incentive bonus for the period between the Effective Time and December 31, 2006, equal to the amount received by a similarly-situated employee of Parent multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days between the Effective Time and December 31, 2006, and the denominator of which is 365.
     (f) Parent hereby assumes, absolutely and unconditionally, effective as of the Effective Time, each of the Continuity Agreements identified on Section 5.2(f) of the Company Disclosure Letter.
     SECTION 5.3 .
Consents and Approvals
     (a) Subject to the requirements of applicable antitrust laws, the Company, Parent and Merger Sub shall each, as promptly as practicable (and in any event within five Business days) after the date of this Agreement, file or cause to be filed with (i) the Federal Trade Commission (the "") and the United States Department of Justice (the "") any notifications required to be filed under the HSR Act; and (ii) the Competition Bureau any notifications required to be filed under the Competition Act with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
FTC
DOJ
     (b) Subject to the requirements of applicable antitrust laws, the Company, Parent and Merger Sub shall cooperate with each other and (i) promptly prepare and file all necessary documentation, (ii) effect all necessary applications, notices, petitions and filings and execute all agreements and documents, (iii) use all reasonable efforts to obtain all necessary permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all Governmental Authorities and (iv) use all reasonable efforts to obtain all necessary Permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all other parties, in the case of each of the foregoing clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), necessary to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or required by the terms of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, franchise, permit, concession, contract, lease or other instrument to which the Company, Merger Sub, Parent or any of their respective Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them is bound; , that no note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, franchise, permit, concession, contract, lease or other instrument shall be amended or modified to increase in any material respect the amount payable thereunder or to be otherwise more burdensome, or less favorable, in each case in any material respect, to the Company and the Company Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise in order to obtain any permit, consent, approval or authorization without first obtaining the written consent of Parent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. The Company shall have the right to review and approve in advance all characterizations of the information relating to the Company; Parent shall have the right to review and approve in advance all characterizations of the information relating to Parent or Merger Sub; and each of the Company and Parent shall have the right to review and approve in advance all characterizations of the information relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, in each case which appear in any material filing (including the Proxy Statement) made in connection with the
provided, however
 
transactions contemplated hereby. The Company, Parent and Merger Sub agree that they will consult with each other with respect to the obtaining of all such necessary Permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all third parties and Governmental Authorities.
     (c) In furtherance of, and not in limitation of the foregoing or , the parties shall use their respective best efforts to respond promptly to any requests for additional information made by either the FTC or the DOJ, and to cause the waiting periods under the HSR Act to terminate or expire at the earliest possible date after the date of filing. The parties hereto agree not to extend directly or indirectly any waiting period under the HSR Act or enter into any agreement with a Governmental Authority to delay or not to consummate the Merger and the other Transactions, except with the prior written consent of the other parties hereto. Each of Parent and Merger Sub and the Company will (x) promptly notify the other party of any written communication to that party from any Governmental Authority and, subject to applicable Law, permit the other party to review in advance any proposed written communication to any such Governmental Authority and incorporate the other party's reasonable comments, (y) not agree to participate in any substantive meeting or discussion with any such Governmental Authority in respect of any filing, investigation or inquiry concerning this Agreement, the Merger or the other Transactions unless it consults with the other party in advance and, to the extent permitted by such Governmental Authority, gives the other party the opportunity to attend, and (z) furnish the other party with copies of all correspondence, filings and written communications between them and their affiliates and their respective representatives on one hand, and any such Governmental Authority or its staff on the other hand, with respect to this Agreement, the Merger and the other Transactions. If any administrative or judicial action or proceeding is instituted (or threatened to be instituted) challenging the Merger or the Transactions contemplated by this Agreement as violative of any antitrust law, or if any judgment, ruling, order, writ, injunction, decree, statute, law, rule or regulation applicable to the Company that would make the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement illegal or would otherwise prohibit or materially impair or delay the consummation of the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, each of Parent and Merger Sub shall use its best efforts, including selling, holding separate or otherwise disposing of or conducting its business in a specified manner, or agreeing to sell, hold separate or otherwise dispose of or conduct its business in a specified manner or permitting the sale, holding separate or other disposition of, any assets of Parent and Merger Sub or their respective subsidiaries, or after the Closing, the Company or the Company Subsidiaries, or the conducting of its business in a specified manner, to contest and resist any such action or proceeding and shall use its best efforts to have vacated, lifted, reversed or overturned any decree, judgment, injunction or other order, whether temporary, preliminary or permanent, that is in effect and that prohibits, prevents or restricts consummation of the Merger or the other Transactions and to have such statute, rule, regulation, executive order, decree, injunction or administrative order repealed, rescinded or made inapplicable so as to permit consummation of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The Company will cooperate with Parent and Merger Sub in all respects in Parent's and Merger Sub's implementation of any of the measures described in the preceding sentence that is undertaken in order to permit consummation of the Merger or the Transactions (including entering into agreements or taking such other actions prior to the Closing as Parent and Merger Sub reasonably request to dispose of assets of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries; provided, that neither the Company nor any the Company Subsidiary shall be required pursuant to this to complete any disposition of the assets of the Company or a Company Subsidiary
Section 5.5
Section 5.3
 
prior to the Closing or enter into any agreement or other arrangement for a disposition of any assets of the Company or a Company Subsidiary that does not expressly provide that the Company's obligation to complete such disposition is subject to the prior or simultaneous occurrence of the Closing).
     SECTION 5.4 .
Public Statements
     The Company, Parent and Merger Sub shall consult with each other prior to issuing, and provide each other with the opportunity to review and comment upon, any public announcement, statement or other disclosure with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby and shall not issue any such public announcement or statement prior to such consultation, except as may be required by law or any listing agreement with a national securities exchange or trading market.
     SECTION 5.5 .
Further Assurances
     (a) Subject to the requirements of applicable antitrust laws, the Company, Parent and Merger Sub shall cooperate with each other and (i) promptly prepare and file all necessary documentation, (ii) effect all necessary applications, notices, petitions and filings and execute all agreements and documents, (iii) use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all necessary permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all Governmental Authorities and (iv) use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all necessary Permits, consents, approvals and authorizations of all other parties, in the case of each of the foregoing clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), necessary to consummate the Merger and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Subject to the terms and conditions provided herein, each of the Company, Parent and Merger Sub agrees to use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all action, and to do, or cause to be done, all things reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable laws and regulations to consummate and make effective the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement as soon as practicable following the date hereof, including (i) obtaining all consents, approvals, authorizations and actions or nonactions required for or in connection with the consummation by the parties hereto of the Merger and the other Transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) the taking of all commercially reasonable steps as may be necessary to obtain an approval or waiver from, or to avoid an action or proceeding by, a Governmental Authority, (iii) the obtaining of all necessary consents from third parties, (iv) contesting and resisting of any action, including any legislative, administrative or judicial action, and seeking to have vacated, lifted, reversed or overturned, any decree, judgment, injunction or other order (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) that restricts, prevents or prohibits the consummation of the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and (v) the execution and delivery of any additional instruments necessary to consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and to fully carry out the purposes of this Agreement. In addition, in connection with filings made by Parent with the SEC in connection with financings associated with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Company hereby consents to the inclusion of its financial statements in such filings, agrees to assist Parent in connection with the preparation of any related proforma financial statements and will use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Company's independent public accountants to provide a consent to the inclusion of their report to such financial statements in such filings and to provide Parent a "comfort" letter dated a date within two
 
Business Days before the date on which such filings shall become effective and addressed to Parent, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent and customary in scope and substance for letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with any such filings.
     (b) In furtherance of, and not in limitation of the foregoing, (i) neither Parent nor Merger Sub will agree to amend, supplement, modify or waive any provisions of the Commitment Letter; (ii) Parent and Merger Sub shall use their respective best efforts to (A) enter into definitive agreements with respect to, and to obtain funding under, the Financing and (B) take any and all commercially reasonable actions necessary to satisfy the conditions precedent set forth in such definitive agreements; and (iii) in the event that any portion of the Financing becomes unavailable pursuant to the Commitment Letter, Parent and Merger Sub shall obtain such portion from alternate sources.
     SECTION 5.6 .
Notification of Certain Matters
     The Company agrees to give prompt notice to Parent and Merger Sub, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent or promptly remedy, the occurrence or failure to occur, or the impending or threatened occurrence or failure to occur, of any event which occurrence or failure to occur would be reasonably likely to cause the failure of any of the conditions set forth in ; , that the delivery of any notice pursuant to this shall not limit or otherwise affect the remedies available hereunder to the party receiving such notice. Each of Parent and Merger Sub agrees to give prompt notice to the Company, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to prevent or promptly remedy, the occurrence or failure to occur, or the impending or threatened occurrence or failure to occur, of any event which occurrence or failure to occur would be reasonably likely to cause the failure of any of the conditions set forth in ; , that the delivery of any notice pursuant to this shall not limit or otherwise affect the remedies available hereunder to the party receiving such notice.
Section 6.2
provided, however
Section 5.6
Section 6.3
provided, however
Section 5.6
     SECTION 5.7 .
Access to Information; Confidentiality
     (a) The Company shall, and shall cause the Company Subsidiaries and the officers, directors, employees and agents of the Company and the Company Subsidiaries, to, afford the officers, employees and agents of Parent and Merger Sub, at their sole cost and risk, reasonable access at all reasonable times from the date hereof through the Effective Time to its officers, employees, agents, properties, facilities, books, records, contracts and other assets and shall furnish Parent and Merger Sub all financial, operating and other data and information as Parent and Merger Sub through their officers, employees or agents, may reasonably request. No additional investigations or disclosures shall affect the Company's representations and warranties contained herein, or limit or otherwise affect the remedies available to Parent and Merger Sub pursuant to this Agreement.
     (b) The provisions of the Confidentiality Agreement, dated June 2, 2006, as amended, between Parent and the Company (the "") shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
Company Confidentiality Agreement
 
     SECTION 5.8 .
No Solicitation
     (a) The Company agrees that from the date of this Agreement until the Effective Time or, if earlier, the termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms, the Company shall not, and the Company shall cause its Company Subsidiaries and its and their respective officers, directors, investment bankers, attorneys and other advisors and representatives not to (i) solicit, initiate, or encourage the submission of, any Takeover Proposal (as hereinafter defined), (ii) approve or recommend any Takeover Proposal, enter into any agreement, agreement-in-principle or letter of intent with respect to or accept any Takeover Proposal (or resolve to or publicly propose to do any of the foregoing), or (iii) participate or engage in any discussions or negotiations regarding, or furnish to any Person any information with respect to, or knowingly take any action to facilitate any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes, or would reasonably be expected to lead to, any Takeover Proposal; , that
provided, however
          (x) nothing contained in this shall prohibit the Company or its Board of Directors from taking and disclosing to the Company's stockholders a position with respect to a tender or exchange offer by a third party pursuant to Rules 14d-9 and 14e 2 promulgated under the Exchange Act or from making any similar disclosure, if, in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors of the Company (after consultation with outside counsel) failure so to disclose would violate its obligations under applicable law, and provided further that the Board of Directors of the Company shall not recommend that the stockholders of the Company tender their Company Common Stock in connection with any such tender or exchange offer unless the Board of Directors of the Company determines in good faith (after consultation with its financial advisor and outside legal counsel) that such tender or exchange offer is a Superior Proposal; and
Section 5.8
          (y) if, prior to this Agreement having been adopted by the Required Company Stockholder Vote, the Company receives an unsolicited written Takeover Proposal from a third party that the Board of Directors of the Company determines in good faith (after consultation with its financial advisor and outside legal counsel) is, or is reasonably likely to result in, a Superior Proposal, the Company and its representatives may conduct such additional discussions (including solicitation of a revised Takeover Proposal) and provide such information as the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine, but only if, prior to such provision of such information or conduct of such additional discussions such third party shall have entered into a confidentiality agreement in customary form that is no less favorable to the Company, than the Company Confidentiality Agreement (except that such confidentiality agreement need not contain any "standstill" or similar covenant and such confidentiality agreement shall contain additional provisions that expressly permit the Company to comply with the provisions of this ); provided, that in the event that the Company enters into a confidentiality agreement with a person making a Takeover Proposal that does not include a "standstill" provision or contains a "standstill" provision less favorable to the Company than the corresponding provision of the Company Confidentiality Agreement, Parent and its affiliates shall, without further action by the Company, be released from the "standstill" provision under Section 6 of the Company Confidentiality Agreement to the extent necessary to render such "standstill" provision of the Company Confidentiality
Section 5.8
 
Agreement no more favorable to the Company than the "standstill," if any, applicable to the person making such Takeover Proposal.
     (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, at any time prior to this Agreement having been approved by the Required Company Stockholder Vote, the Board of Directors of the Company (or the applicable committee thereof) may (i) (A) fail to make, withdraw (or amend or modify in a manner adverse to Parent or Merger Sub), or publicly propose to withdraw (or amend or modify in a manner adverse to Parent or Merger Sub), the recommendation or declaration of advisability by the Company Board of this Agreement, the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement or (B) recommend, or publicly propose to recommend any Takeover Proposal (any of the events in the foregoing clauses (A) and (B) being a ""), or (ii) to the extent permitted pursuant to and in compliance with , allow the Company to enter into a binding written agreement concerning a transaction that constitutes a Superior Proposal, if in the case of any of the foregoing clauses (i) or (ii), the Board of Directors of the Company determines in its good faith judgment, after consultation with outside legal counsel it is required to do so in order to comply with its fiduciary duties under applicable law.
Change in the Company Recommendation
Section 7.1(f)
     (c) For purposes of this Agreement, (i) "" shall mean any inquiry, proposal or offer from any Person (other than Parent, Merger Sub or any of their affiliates) relating to (A) any acquisition, merger, consolidation, reorganization, share exchange, recapitalization, liquidation, direct or indirect business combination, asset acquisition or other similar transaction involving the Company or any Company Subsidiary of (x) assets or businesses that constitute or represent 10% or more of the total revenue, operating income, EBITDAX or assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole immediately prior to such transaction, or (y) 10% or more of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Company or capital stock of, or other equity or voting interests in, any of the Company's Subsidiaries in each case other than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or (B) any purchase or sale of, or tender offer or exchange offer for, capital stock of the Company or any Company Subsidiary that if consummated would result in any Person beneficially owning 10% or more of any class of capital stock of the Company or any Company Subsidiary and (ii) the term "" means any bona fide written Takeover Proposal to effect a merger, consolidation, reorganization, share exchange, tender offer, recapitalization, liquidation, direct or indirect business combination, or other similar transaction as a result of which the Company's stockholders cease to own at least 80% of the voting securities of the ultimate parent entity resulting from such transaction or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, which in any such case is on terms that the Board of Directors of the Company determines in its good faith judgment (after consultation with its financial advisor and outside counsel), taking into account all relevant factors, including any conditions to such Takeover Proposal, the timing of the closing thereof, the risk of nonconsummation, the ability of the Person making the Takeover Proposal to finance the transaction contemplated thereby, any required governmental or other consents, filings and approvals, (A) would, if consummated, result in a transaction that is more favorable to the Company's stockholders from a financial point of view than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including the terms of any proposal by Parent to modify the terms of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement) and (B) is reasonably likely to be financed and otherwise completed without undue delay.
Takeover Proposal
Superior Proposal
 
     (d) Except as expressly permitted by or , neither the Board of Directors of the Company nor any committee thereof shall effect any Change in the Company Recommendation.
Section 5.8(a)
Section 5.8(b)
     (e) In addition to the other obligations of the Company set forth in this , the Company shall promptly (and in any event, within 48 hours) advise Parent orally and in writing of any Takeover Proposal, any request for information with respect to any Takeover Proposal, or any inquiry with respect to or which could result in a Takeover Proposal, the material terms and conditions of such request, Takeover Proposal or inquiry, and the identity of the Person making the same and shall at the time of such advice provide Parent with a copy of any written request or Takeover Proposal or other document relating to a Takeover Proposal. The Company will keep Parent promptly and fully informed of the status and details (including amendments) of any such request, Takeover Proposal or inquiry and shall promptly provide Parent with a copy of any non-public information furnished to the Person making such request, Takeover Proposal or inquiry.
Section 5.8
     (f) The Company shall immediately cease and cause to be terminated and shall cause its affiliates and the Company Subsidiaries and its or their respective officers, directors, employees, representatives and agents, to terminate all existing discussions or negotiations, if any, with any Persons conducted heretofore with respect to, or that could reasonably be expected to lead to, a Takeover Proposal and will cause any such parties (and their agents or advisors) in possession of confidential information regarding the Company or any of the Company Subsidiaries to return or destroy such information.
     SECTION 5.9 .
Indemnification and Insurance
     (a) Parent and Merger Sub agree that all rights to indemnification by the Company now existing in favor of each person who is now, or has been at any time prior to the date hereof or who becomes prior to the Effective Time an officer or director of the Company or any Company Subsidiary or an employee of the Company or any Company Subsidiary who acts as a fiduciary under any of the Company Employee Benefit Plans (each an "") as provided in the Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws, in each case as in effect on the date of this Agreement, or pursuant to any other agreements in effect on the date hereof, copies of which have been provided to Parent, including provisions relating to the advancement of expenses incurred in the defense of any action or suit, shall survive the Merger and shall remain in full force and effect. From and after the Effective Time, Parent and the Surviving Corporation shall be jointly and severally liable to pay and perform in a timely manner such indemnification obligations.
Indemnified Party
     (b) For six years after the Effective Time, to the full extent permitted under applicable law, Parent and the Surviving Corporation (the "") shall jointly and severally indemnify, defend and hold harmless each Indemnified Party against all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, fees, expenses, judgments and fines arising in whole or in part out of actions or omissions in their capacity as such occurring at or prior to the Effective Time (including in respect of this Agreement), and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending any such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, fees, expenses,
Indemnifying Parties
 
judgments and fines as such expenses are incurred; provided that nothing herein shall impair any rights to indemnification of any Indemnified Party referred to in clause (a) above.
     (c) Parent shall cause the Surviving Corporation to maintain the Company's officers' and directors' liability insurance policies, in effect on the date of this Agreement (the ""), for a period of not less than six years after the Effective Time, but only to the extent related to actions or omissions prior to the Effective Time; provided, that (i) the Surviving Corporation may substitute therefor policies of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms no less advantageous to such former directors or officers and (ii) such substitution shall not result in gaps or lapses of coverage with respect to matters occurring prior to the Effective Time; provided, further, that in no event shall Parent or the Surviving Corporation be required to expend more than an amount per year equal to 200% of current annual premiums paid by the Company for such insurance (the "") to maintain or procure insurance coverage pursuant hereto; provided, further, that if the amount of the annual premiums necessary to maintain or procure such insurance coverage exceeds the Maximum Amount, Parent and the Surviving Corporation shall procure and maintain for such six-year period as much coverage as reasonably practicable for the Maximum Amount. Parent shall have the right to cause coverage to be extended under the Company's D&O Insurance by obtaining a six-year "tail" policy on terms and conditions no less advantageous than the Company's existing D&O Insurance, and such "tail" policy shall satisfy the provisions of this .
D&O Insurance
Maximum Amount
Section 5.9(c)
     (d) The obligations of Parent and the Surviving Corporation under this shall survive the consummation of the Merger and shall not be terminated or modified in such a manner as to adversely affect any Indemnified Party to whom this applies without the consent of such affected Indemnified Party (it being expressly agreed that the Indemnified Parties to whom this applies shall be third party beneficiaries of this , each of whom may enforce the provisions of this ).
Section 5.9
Section 5.9
Section 5.9
Section 5.9
Section 5.9
     (e) If Parent or the Surviving Corporation or any of their respective successors or assigns (i) consolidates with or merges into any other Person and shall not be the continuing or Surviving Corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) transfers all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, then, and in each such case, proper provision shall be made so that the successors and assigns of Parent or the Surviving Corporation, as the case may, be shall assume the obligations set forth in this .
Section 5.9
     SECTION 5.10 .
State Takeover Laws
     If any "fair price," "moratorium," "control share acquisition," "business combination" or other takeover statute or similar statute or regulation, applies or purports to apply to this Agreement and the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, each of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company shall (a) take all reasonable action to ensure that such transactions may be consummated as promptly as practicable upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and (b) otherwise act to eliminate the effects of such takeover statute, law or regulation.
 
     SECTION 5.11 .
Expenses
     Subject to Section 7.3, each party shall bear solely and entirely, all Expenses (as defined below) that they incur; , that if this Agreement is terminated and the Termination Fee is payable as a result thereof, then the allocable share of the Company and Parent for all Expenses related to preparing, printing, filing and mailing the Proxy Statement and all SEC and other regulatory filing fees incurred in connection with the Proxy Statement, the HSR Act and the Competition Act shall be allocated one-half each. As used in this Agreement, the term "" means all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including all reasonable fees and expenses of outside counsel, accountants, financing sources, investment bankers, experts and consultants to a party hereto and its affiliates) incurred by a party or on its behalf in connection with or related to the due diligence, authorization, preparation, negotiation, execution and performance of this Agreement, the preparation, printing, filing and mailing of the Proxy Statement, the solicitation of the Required Company Stockholder Vote, and all other matters related to the consummation of the Merger (subject to reasonable documentation).
provided, however
Expenses
     SECTION 5.12 .
Board Membership
     Subject to the approval of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of Parent's Board of Directors in accordance with Parent's governance practices and procedures, Parent shall take such action as is necessary to cause Luke R. Corbett to be appointed to the Board of Directors of Parent effective as of or promptly after the Effective Time, to serve until the earlier of such individual's resignation or removal or until his successor is duly elected and qualified in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Parent. Mr. Corbett shall be designated to the class of directors of Parent whose term expires at Parent's 2008 Annual Stockholders Meeting.
     Section 6.1 .
Conditions to Each Party's Obligation To Effect the Merger
     The respective obligations of each party to effect the Merger are subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, waiver on or prior to the Closing Date of each of the following conditions:
     (a) . This Agreement shall have been adopted by the Required Company Stockholder Vote.
Stockholder Approval
     (b) . The waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement under the HSR Act and, if required, the Competition Act shall have been terminated or shall have expired.
HSR Act and Competition Act
     (c) . No preliminary injunction or other order, decree or ruling issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or by a Governmental Authority, nor any statute, rule, regulation or executive order promulgated or enacted by any Governmental Authority, shall be in effect that would make the Merger illegal or otherwise prevent the consummation thereof.
No Injunctions or Restraints
 
     SECTION 6.2 .
Conditions to Obligations of Parent and Merger Sub
     The obligations of Parent and Merger Sub to effect the Merger are further subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the waiver of each of the following conditions:
     (a) . The representations and warranties of the Company set forth herein shall be true and correct as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, with the same effect as if made at and as of such time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case as of such date), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct (without giving effect to any threshold or any limitation or qualifier as to "materiality" or "Company Material Adverse Effect" or words of similar import set forth therein) does not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect; and Parent shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of the Company to such effect.
Representations and Warranties
     (b) . The Company shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and Parent shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of the Company to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of the Company
     (c) . Each of the directors of the Company shall have resigned as of the Effective Time and such resignations shall have been delivered to Parent.
Resignations of Directors
     SECTION 6.3 .
Conditions to Obligation of the Company
     The obligations of the Company to effect the Merger are further subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the waiver of each of the following conditions:
     (a) . The representations and warranties of Parent set forth herein shall be true and correct as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Date, with the same effect as if made at and as of such time (except to the extent expressly made as of an earlier date, in which case as of such date), except where the failure of such representations and warranties to be so true and correct (without giving effect to any threshold or any limitation or qualifier as to "materiality" or "Parent Material Adverse Effect" or words of similar import set forth therein) does not have, and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Parent Material Adverse Effect, and the Company shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of each of Parent and Merger Sub by the respective chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of each such entity to such effect.
Representations and Warranties
     (b) . Each of Parent and Merger Sub shall have performed in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date, and the Company shall have received a certificate signed on behalf of each of Parent and Merger Sub by the respective chief executive officer and the chief financial officer of each such entity to such effect.
Performance of Obligations of Parent and Merger Sub
 
     SECTION 7.1 .
Termination
     This Agreement may be terminated and the Merger may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time, whether before or after this Agreement has been adopted by the Required Company Stockholder Vote:
     (a) by mutual written consent of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company;
     (b) by either the Company or Parent, if the Merger has not been consummated by the first Business Day in 2007, or such later date, if any, as is provided in hereof (the ""); , that the right to terminate this Agreement under this shall not be available to any party whose failure to fulfill any obligation under this Agreement has been the cause of, or resulted in, the failure of the Effective Time to occur on or before the Termination Date;
Section 5.1(b)
Termination Date
provided, however
Section 7.1(b)
     (c) by either the Company or Parent, if any judgment, order, decree, statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation or other legal restraint or prohibition having the effects set forth in shall be in effect and shall have become final and nonappealable; provided, that the party seeking to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this clause 7.1(c) shall have used those efforts required hereunder to resist, lift or resolve such judgment, order, decree, statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation or other legal restraint or prohibition;
Section 6.1(c)
     (d) by either the Company or Parent, if upon a vote at a duly held Company Stockholders Meeting, the Required Company Stockholder Vote shall not have been obtained; provided, that Parent may not terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 7.1(d) if Parent or Merger Sub is in breach of its obligations pursuant to ;
Section 5.1(c)
     (e) by Parent, if at any time prior to this Agreement having been approved by the Required Company Stockholder Vote, the Board of Directors of the Company shall have effected a Change in the Company Recommendation;
     (f) by the Company, if at any time prior to this Agreement having been approved by the Required Company Stockholder Vote:
     (i) the Company shall not have breached ,
Section 5.8
     (ii) the Board of Directors of the Company has received a Superior Proposal, and authorizes the Company to enter into a binding written agreement concerning such transaction that constitutes such Superior Proposal and the Company notifies Parent in writing that it intends to enter into such an agreement, attaching the most current version of such agreement to such notice,
     (iii) Parent does not make, within 72 hours of receipt of the Company's written notification of its intention to enter into such agreement, an offer that the Board of Directors of the Company determines, in its good faith judgment (after consultation with
 
its financial advisor and outside legal counsel) is at least as favorable to the Company's stockholders from a financial point of view as the Superior Proposal (it being understood and agreed that any amendment to the price or any other material term of a Superior Proposal will require a new notification from the Company to Parent and a new 72 hour period), and
     (iv) the Company concurrently with such termination pays to Parent in immediately available funds the Termination Fee and the Expense Fee pursuant to ;
Section 7.3
     (g) by Parent, if the Company shall have breached or failed to perform in any material respect any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements contained in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (A) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in or ), and (B) is incapable of being cured or has not been cured by the Company within 30 calendar days after written notice has been given by Parent to the Company of such breach or failure to perform (""); or
Section 6.2(a)
Section 6.2(b)
Company Breach
     (h) by the Company, if Parent shall have breached or failed to perform in any material respect any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements contained in this Agreement, which breach or failure to perform (A) would give rise to the failure of a condition set forth in or , and (B) is incapable of being cured or has not been cured by the Parent within 30 calendar days after written notice has been given by the Company to Parent of such breach or failure to perform.
Section 6.3(a)
Section 6.3(b)
     The party desiring to terminate this Agreement shall give written notice of such termination to the other party.
     SECTION 7.2 .
Effect of Termination
     Upon the termination of this Agreement pursuant to and in accordance with , this Agreement shall forthwith become null and void except for the provisions of (i) , (ii) the last sentence of , and (iii) , which shall survive such termination; provided that nothing herein shall relieve any party from liability for any intentional breach of a covenant or representation or warranty in this Agreement prior to such termination. In addition, the provisions of the Company Confidentiality Agreement remain in full force and effect in accordance with its terms and shall not be affected by the termination of this Agreement.
Section 7.1
Section 7.3
Section 5.6
Article VIII
     SECTION 7.3 .
Fees and Expenses
     (a) If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to , the Company shall promptly, but in no event later than one Business Day after termination of this Agreement, pay Parent a fee in immediately available funds of $493,000,000 (the "").
Section 7.1(e)
Termination Fee
     (b) If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to , the Company shall pay such Termination Fee concurrently with such termination.
Section 7.1(f)
     (c) If (A) a Takeover Proposal in respect of the Company is publicly announced or is proposed or offered or made to the Company or the Company's stockholders prior to this
 
Agreement having been approved by the Required Company Stockholder Vote, (B) this Agreement is terminated by either party, as applicable, pursuant to or and (C) within 12 months following such termination the Company shall consummate or enter into, directly or indirectly, an agreement with respect to a transaction constituting a Takeover Proposal, the Company shall promptly, but in no event later than one Business Day after such consummation or, if earlier, entry into such agreement, pay Parent the Termination Fee. For purposes of this , such reference to 10% in the definition of "Takeover Proposal" shall be replaced with a reference to 50%.
Section 7.1(b)
Section 7.1(d)
Section 7.3(c)
     (d) If (A) Parent terminates this Agreement under or at a time that a Company Breach exists and (B) within 12 months following such termination the Company shall consummate or enter into, directly or indirectly, an agreement with respect to a transaction constituting a Takeover Proposal, then the Company shall promptly, but in no event later than one Business Day after such consummation or, if earlier, entry into such agreement, pay Parent the Termination Fee. For purposes of this , each reference to 10% in the definition of "Takeover Proposal" shall be replaced with a reference to 50%.
Section 7.1(g)
Section 7.1(b)
Section 7.3(d)
     (e) Except as set forth in this and , all Expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such expenses, whether or not the Merger is consummated; provided that if this Agreement is terminated and the Termination Fee is payable as a result thereof, in addition to the payment of the Termination Fee, the Company shall reimburse Parent for, all Expenses in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, upon to a maximum of $10,000,000 incurred by Parent (the "") which Expense Fee shall be payable at the same time as the Termination Fee.
Section 7.3
Section 5.11
Expense Fee
     (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, receipt by Parent of a Termination Fee and required Expense Fee under shall constitute full settlement of any and all liabilities of the Company for damages under this Agreement in respect of a termination of this Agreement.
Section 7.3
     SECTION 7.4 .
Amendment
     This Agreement may be amended by the parties hereto, at any time before or after approval of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby by action by or on behalf of the respective Boards of Directors of the parties hereto or the stockholders of the Company; , that after any such approval by the stockholders of the Company, no amendment shall be made that in any way materially adversely affects the rights of such stockholders (other than a termination of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions hereof) without the further approval of such stockholders. This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed on behalf of each of the parties hereto.
provided, however
     SECTION 7.5 .
Waiver
     Any failure of any of the parties to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition herein may be waived at any time prior to the Effective Time by any of the parties entitled to the benefit thereof only by a written instrument signed by each such party granting
 
such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict compliance with such obligation, representation, warranty, covenant, agreement or condition shall not operate as a waiver of or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other failure.
     SECTION 8.1 .
Notices
     All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally, mailed by certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by overnight courier or by telecopier (upon confirmation of receipt) to the parties at the following addresses or at such other addresses as shall be specified by the parties by like notice:
     (a) if to Parent or Merger Sub:
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation 1201 Lake Robbins Drive The Woodlands, Texas 77380 Attention: Robert K. Reeves Fax: (832) 636-3214
with a copy to:
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP 1111 Louisiana Street, 44th Floor Houston, Texas 77002-5200 Attention:   Michael E. Dillard, P.C.                    Julien R. Smythe, Esq.
Fax: (713) 236-0822
(b) if to the Company:
Kerr-McGee Corporation 123 Robert S. Kerr Avenue Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73102 Attention: General Counsel Fax:     (405) 270-3649
with a copy to:
Covington & Burling 1330 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10019
 
Attention: Scott F. Smith, Esq. Fax: (212) 841-1010
     Notice so given shall (in the case of notice so given by mail) be deemed to be given when received and (in the case of notice so given by cable, telegram, telecopier, telex or personal delivery) on the date of actual transmission or (as the case may be) personal delivery.
     SECTION 8.2 .
Representations and Warranties
     The representations and warranties contained in this Agreement shall not survive the Merger.
     SECTION 8.3 .
Knowledge Qualifiers
     "To the knowledge of the Company" and similar phrases mean the actual knowledge of the individuals described in of the Company Disclosure Letter.
Section 8.3
     SECTION 8.4 .
Interpretations
     When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article, Section or Exhibit, such reference shall be to an Article, Section or Exhibit to this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The words "include," "includes" and "including" when used herein shall be deemed in each case to be followed by the words "without limitation." Any references in this Agreement to "the date hereof" refers to the date of execution of this Agreement. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
     SECTION 8.5
Governing Law; Jurisdiction
     (a) 
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK REGARDLESS OF THE LAWS THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE GOVERN UNDER APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS THEREOF. EXCEPT THAT THE CONSUMMATION AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE MERGER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE.
     (b) Each of the parties hereto (i) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of the Delaware Court of Chancery in the event any dispute arises out of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, (iii) agrees that it will not bring any action relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any court other than the Delaware Court of Chancery, and (iv) waives any right to trial by jury with respect to any action related to or arising out of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby.
 
     SECTION 8.6 .
Counterparts; Facsimile Transmission of Signatures
     This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, and delivered by means of facsimile transmission or otherwise, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
     SECTION 8.7 .
Assignment; No Third Party Beneficiaries
     (a) This Agreement and all of the provisions hereto shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns, but neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations set forth herein shall be assigned by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other parties hereto and any purported assignment without such consent shall be void.
     (b) Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as giving any Person, other than the parties hereto and their heirs, successors, legal representatives and permitted assigns, any right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision hereof, except that after the Effective Time, (i) each holder of an Option, Performance Unit or Restricted Stock is intended to be a third party beneficiary of only and may specifically enforce its terms and (ii) each Indemnified Party is intended to be a third party beneficiary of and may specifically enforce its terms.
Section 1.8
Section 5.9
     SECTION 8.8 .
Severability
     If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under any applicable law, then such contravention or invalidity shall not invalidate the entire Agreement. Such provision shall be deemed to be modified to the extent necessary to render it legal, valid and enforceable, and if no such modification shall render it legal, valid and enforceable, then this Agreement shall be construed as if not containing the provision held to be invalid, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall be construed and enforced accordingly.
     SECTION 8.9 .
Entire Agreement
     This Agreement and the Company Confidentiality Agreement contain all of the terms of the understandings of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
     SECTION 8.10 .
Enforcement
     The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled.
 
     , Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.1
     VOTING AGREEMENT, dated as of June 22, 2006 (the ""), among Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and [] (solely in his, her or its capacity as a stockholder, "").
Agreement
Parent
                    
                    
Stockholder
     Parent, APC Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (""), and Western Gas Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), propose to enter into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of the date hereof (as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, the ""), pursuant to which, upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, Merger Sub will be merged with and into the Company, and the Company will be the surviving entity (the "").
Merger Sub
Company
Merger Agreement
Merger
     As of the date hereof, Stockholder is the record and beneficial owner of the number of shares (the "") of common stock, par value $.10 per share, of the Company (the "") set forth opposite Stockholder's name on attached hereto (such Shares, together with any other shares of capital stock of the Company acquired by Stockholder after the date hereof and during the term of this Agreement (including through the exercise of any stock options or warrants, or any other convertible or exchangeable securities or similar instruments of the Company), being collectively referred to herein as Stockholder's "").
Shares
Company Common Stock
Schedule I
Subject Shares
     As a condition to its willingness to enter into the Merger Agreement, Parent has required that Stockholder agree, and Stockholder is willing to agree, to the matters set forth herein.
     In consideration of the foregoing and the agreements set forth below, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     . Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Merger Agreement.
Section 1.
Defined Terms
     .
Section 2.
Voting of Shares
     (a) . For so long as this Agreement is in effect, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, Stockholder hereby agrees to vote (or cause to be voted) all of Stockholder's Subject Shares, at every annual, special or other meeting of the stockholders of the Company, and at any adjournments or postponements thereof, or pursuant to any consent in lieu of a meeting or otherwise:
Voting
     (i) in favor of the Merger and the adoption of the Merger Agreement and the approval of the other transactions contemplated thereby, and any actions required in furtherance thereof;
 
     (ii) against any action or agreement that Stockholder would reasonably expect to result in a breach in any material respect of any covenant, representation or warranty or any other obligation of the Company under the Merger Agreement; and
     (iii) against (A) any extraordinary corporate transaction, such as a merger, rights offering, reorganization, recapitalization or liquidation involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than the Merger), (B) a sale or transfer of a material amount of assets or capital stock of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (C) any action that is intended, or would reasonably be expected, to prevent or materially delay or otherwise materially interfere with the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Furthermore, Stockholder shall not participate in any way in (and shall vote Stockholders' Subject Shares against) the calling of a special meeting of the Company's stockholders at which any of the foregoing is proposed to be voted upon.
     (b) . Stockholder hereby irrevocably grants to, and appoints, Parent and any individual who shall hereafter be designated by Parent, and each of them, Stockholder's proxy and attorney-in-fact (with full power of substitution), for and in the name, place and stead of Stockholder, to vote, or cause to be voted, Stockholder's Subject Shares, or grant a consent or approval in respect of Stockholder's Subject Shares, at every annual, special or other meeting of the stockholders of the Company, and at any adjournments or postponements thereof, or pursuant to any consent in lieu of a meeting or otherwise, with respect to the matters and in the manner specified in Section 2(a) hereof; that the foregoing proxy shall terminate immediately upon termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms. Stockholder understands and acknowledges that Parent is entering into the Merger Agreement in reliance upon Stockholder's execution and delivery of this Agreement. Stockholder hereby affirms that the irrevocable proxy set forth in this Section 2(b) is given in connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement, and that such irrevocable proxy is given to secure the performance of the duties of Stockholder under this Agreement. Subject to this Section 2(b) and Section 10, this grant of proxy is coupled with an interest and may under no circumstances be revoked. Stockholder hereby ratifies and confirms all that such irrevocable proxy may lawfully do or cause to be done in accordance herewith. Such irrevocable proxy is executed and intended to be irrevocable in accordance with the provisions of Section 212(e) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware (the "").
Grant of Irrevocable Proxy
provided
DGCL
     . All agreements and understandings made herein shall be made solely in Stockholder's capacity as a stockholder and (if Stockholder is an officer or director of the Company) not in Stockholder's capacity as an director or officer of the Company. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Stockholder executes and delivers this Agreement and performs Stockholder's obligations hereunder solely in his, her or its capacity as the record and beneficial owner, as applicable, of Stockholder's Subject Shares and nothing herein shall limit or affect any actions taken by Stockholder in his capacity as an officer or director of the Company in exercising his or the Company's or the Company's Board of Directors' rights or duties in connection with the Merger Agreement or otherwise and such actions shall not be deemed to be a breach of this Agreement.
Section 3.
Fiduciary Responsibilities
     . Stockholder represents and
Section 4.
Representations and Warranties of Stockholder
 
warrants to Parent as follows:
     (a) . Stockholder has the power and authority or capacity, as the case may be, to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. Stockholder has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement and this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Stockholder, enforceable against Stockholder in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Binding Agreement
     (b) . Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Stockholder, nor the performance by Stockholder of its obligations hereunder will, assuming any consent, authorization, waiver or exemption under Section 203 of the DGCL applicable hereto has been obtained, (i) require any consent, approval, authorization or permit of, registration, declaration or filing (except for such filings as may be required under the federal securities laws or the HSR Act or as would not reasonably be expected to prevent, materially delay or otherwise materially impair Stockholder's ability to perform its obligations hereunder) with, or notification to, any Governmental Authority, (ii) if Stockholder is an entity, result in a violation of, or default under, or conflict with any provision of its certificate of incorporation, bylaws, partnership agreement, limited liability company agreement or similar organizational documents, (iii) violate or conflict with any order, writ, injunction, decree, rule, regulation or law applicable to Stockholder or Stockholder's Subject Shares, (iv) result in a violation or breach of, or constitute (with or without due notice or lapse of time or both) a default (or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation, or acceleration) under any contract, trust, agreement, instrument, commitment, arrangement or understanding applicable to Stockholder or Stockholder's Subject Shares, or result in the creation of a security interest, lien, charge, encumbrance, equity or claim with respect to any of Stockholder's Subject Shares, or (v) require any consent, authorization or approval of any Person other than a Governmental Authority, except, in the case of clauses (iv) and (v), as would not reasonably be expected to prevent, materially delay or otherwise materially impair Stockholder's ability to perform its obligations hereunder. If Stockholder is a married individual and Stockholder's Subject Shares constitute community property or otherwise need spousal approval in order for this Agreement to be a legal, valid and binding obligation of Stockholder, this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by, and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of, Stockholder's spouse, enforceable against such spouse in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
No Conflict
     (c) . Stockholder is the record and/or beneficial owner of the Shares set forth opposite Stockholder's name on attached hereto free and clear of any security interests, liens, charges, encumbrances, equities, claims, options or limitations of whatever nature and free of any other limitation or restriction (including any restriction on the right to vote, sell or otherwise dispose of such Shares), other than those created by this Agreement or as set forth on attached hereto. There are no outstanding options or other rights to acquire from Stockholder, or obligations of Stockholder to sell or to dispose of,
Ownership of Shares
Schedule I
Schedule I
 
any shares of Company Common Stock, and none of Stockholder's Subject Shares are subject to vesting, except as set forth on attached hereto. Stockholder holds the exclusive power to vote the Shares set forth opposite Stockholder's name on attached hereto. As of the date of this Agreement, the Shares set forth opposite Stockholder's name on such attached hereto represent all of the shares of capital stock of the Company owned (beneficially or of record) by Stockholder, except shares of Company Common Stock which may be acquired by Stockholder upon exercise of options, if any, held by Stockholder as set forth in such Schedule and except as otherwise set forth on attached hereto.
Schedule I
Schedule I
Schedule I
Schedule I
     (d) . No broker, investment banker, financial advisor or other Person is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or other similar fee or commission based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Stockholder in connection with its entering into this Agreement.
Broker Fees
     . Parent represents and warrants to Stockholder as follows:
Section 5.
Representations and Warranties of Parent
     (a) . Parent is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by the Board of Directors of Parent, and no other corporate proceedings on the part of Parent are necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by Parent and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. Parent has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement and this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of Parent, enforceable against Parent in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Binding Agreement
     (b) . Neither the execution and delivery by Parent of this Agreement, nor the performance by Parent of its obligations hereunder will, assuming any consent, authorization, waiver or exemption under Section 203 of the DGCL applicable hereto has been obtained, (i) require any consent, approval, authorization or permit of, registration, declaration or filing (except for such filings as may be required under the federal securities laws or the HSR Act or as would not reasonably be expected to prevent, materially delay or otherwise materially impair Parent's ability to perform its obligations hereunder) with, or notification to, any Governmental Authority, (ii) result in a violation of, or default under, or conflict with any provision of its Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, (iii) violate or conflict with any order, writ, injunction, decree, rule, regulation or law applicable to Parent, (iv) result in a violation or breach of, or constitute (with or without due notice or lapse of time or both) a default (or give rise to any right of termination, cancellation, or acceleration) under any contract, trust, agreement, instrument, commitment, arrangement or understanding applicable to Parent, or (v) require any consent, authorization or approval of any Person other than a Governmental Authority, except, in the case
No Conflict
 
of clauses (iv) and (v), as would not prevent, materially delay or otherwise materially impair such Parent's ability to perform its obligations hereunder.
     . For so long as this Agreement is in effect:
Section 6.
Transfer and Other Restrictions
     (a) . Stockholder agrees not to:
Certain Prohibited Transfers
     (i) sell, transfer, pledge, encumber, assign or otherwise dispose whether by merger, consolidation or operation of law (collectively, the "") of, or enter into any contract, option or other arrangement or understanding with respect to the Transfer of, Stockholder's Subject Shares or any interest contained therein (other than, if the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement are consummated, by operation of law in the Merger), except that any Stockholder may Transfer any of the Subject Shares to any other holder of Company Common Stock who is on the date hereof a party to this Agreement or other agreement with Parent on terms substantially identical to the terms of this Agreement, or to any other Person that, prior to or coincident with such Transfer, executes an agreement with Parent on terms substantially identical to the terms of this Agreement;
Transfer
     (ii) grant any proxies or powers of attorney or enter into a voting agreement or other arrangement with respect to Stockholder's Subject Shares, other than this Agreement;
     (iii) enter into, or deposit Stockholder's Subject Shares into, a voting trust or take any other action which would, or could reasonably be expected to, result in a diminution of the voting power represented by any of Stockholder's Subject Shares; or
     (iv) commit or agree to take any of the foregoing actions that would reasonably be expected in any way to limit, restrict or interfere with Stockholder's obligations hereunder or with the consummation of the Merger; , , that the restrictions in this Section 6 shall not be deemed violated by any Transfer of Subject Shares pursuant to a cashless exercise of options to acquire Shares so long as the Shares issuable upon exercise thereof become Stockholder's Subject Shares hereunder.
provided
however
     (b) . For so long as this Agreement is in effect, Stockholder agrees not to take any action which would reasonably be expected to make any representation or warranty of Stockholder herein untrue or incorrect in any material respect or knowingly take any action that would have the effect of preventing or disabling it from performing its obligations under this Agreement. Subject to Section 3 hereof, for so long as this Agreement is in effect, Stockholder shall use Stockholder's reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions (including executing and delivering such additional documents) and do, or cause to be done, and to assist and cooperate with the other parties hereto in doing, all things, in each case, as may reasonably be deemed by Parent to be necessary or desirable to carry out the provisions of this Agreement.
Efforts
     (c) . In the event (i) of any stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, reclassification, combination or exchange of shares of capital stock of the
Additional Shares
 
Company on, of or affecting Stockholder's Subject Shares or (ii) Stockholder becomes the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Company Common Stock or other securities entitling the holder thereof to vote or give consent with respect to the matters set forth in Section 2(a) hereof, then the terms of this Agreement shall apply to the shares of capital stock or other securities of the Company held by Stockholder immediately following the effectiveness of the events described in clause (i) or Stockholder becoming the beneficial owner thereof, as described in clause (ii), as though they were Stockholder's Subject Shares hereunder. Stockholder hereby agrees, while this Agreement is in effect, to notify Parent of the number of any new shares of Company Common Stock acquired by Stockholder, if any, after the date hereof.
     (d) . Stockholder agrees to submit his certificates or certificates representing Stockholder's Subject Shares so they may be legended if required by applicable law for the enforceability of the transfer restrictions set forth in this Section 6.
Certificates
     . . Stockholder hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, and agrees to prevent the exercise of, any rights of appraisal, any dissenter's rights and any similar rights relating to the Merger that Stockholder may directly or indirectly have by virtue of the ownership of the Subject Shares.
Section 7
Waiver of Appraisal Rights
     . . For so long as this Agreement is in effect, no Stockholder shall, nor shall Stockholder authorize any investment banker, attorney or other advisor or representative of Stockholder to, directly or indirectly through another Person, solicit, initiate or encourage, or take any other action to facilitate, any inquiries or the making of any proposal that constitutes, or may reasonably be expected to lead to, any Takeover Proposal; that any action which is permitted by the Merger Agreement to be taken by Stockholder in his capacity as a director or officer or which is permitted by Section 3 hereof shall not be prohibited or restricted by the foregoing.
Section 8
No Solicitation
provided
     . The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with the terms hereof or were otherwise breached and that the non-breaching party shall be entitled to specific performance of the terms hereof in addition to any other remedy which may be available at law or in equity. It is accordingly agreed that the non-breaching party will be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions of this Agreement in the Delaware Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, the foregoing being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity. In addition, each of the parties hereto (i) consents to submit itself to the personal jurisdiction of any state or federal court located in Wilmington, Delaware, in the event any dispute arises out of this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such personal jurisdiction by motion or other request for leave from any such court, and (iii) agrees that it will not bring any action relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement in any court other than the Delaware Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware.
Section 9.
Specific Enforcement
     . This Agreement shall terminate and cease to have any force or effect on the earliest of (i) the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms,
Section 10.
Termination
 
(ii) the written agreement of the parties hereto to terminate this Agreement, (iii) the consummation of the Merger, (iv) the amendment of the Merger Agreement to decrease the Merger Consideration or otherwise alter the Merger Consideration in a manner adverse to Stockholder unless such amendment has been consented to by Stockholder in writing prior to or simultaneously with such amendment, and (v) if the Merger has not been consummated by December 31, 2006, notice at any time thereafter from any party hereto to the other parties of such party's election to terminate this Agreement (provided, however, that the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this clause (v) shall not be available to any party that is in breach in any material respect of its obligations hereunder); , , that (1) Sections 3, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 shall survive any termination of this Agreement and (2) termination of this Agreement shall not relieve any party from liability for any breach of its obligations hereunder committed prior to such termination.
provided
however
     . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if delivered personally, mailed by certified mail (return receipt requested) or sent by overnight carrier or by telecopier (upon confirmation of receipt) to the parties at the following addresses or at such other address as shall be specified by the parties by like notice: (i) if to Parent or the Company, to the appropriate address set forth in Section 8.1 of the Merger Agreement; and (ii) if to Stockholder, to the appropriate address set forth on hereto.
Section 11.
Notices
Schedule I
     . Stockholder agrees that this Agreement and the obligations hereunder shall attach to Stockholder's Subject Shares and shall be binding upon any Person to which legal or beneficial ownership of Stockholder's Subject Shares shall pass, whether by operation of law or otherwise, including Stockholder's heirs, guardians, administrators or successors.
Section 12.
Certain Events
     .
Section 13.
Publicity
     (a) Stockholder hereby consents to the publication and disclosure in the Proxy Statement, and any other documents required to be filed with the SEC in connection with the Merger, the identity and ownership of the Subject Shares by Stockholder and the nature of Stockholder's commitments, agreements and understandings under this Agreement.
     (b) Except as required by law, for so long as this Agreement is in effect, no Stockholder will, or will authorize any of its affiliates to, issue or cause publication of any press release or other announcement with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement without the written consent of Parent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
     . This Agreement (including the documents and instruments referred to herein) constitutes the entire agreement and supersedes all other prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the parties, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Section 14.
Entire Agreement
 
     . This Agreement may not be modified, amended, altered or supplemented except upon the execution and delivery of a written agreement executed by the parties hereto.
Section 15.
Amendment
     . This Agreement shall not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the prior written consent of the other parties hereto, except as expressly provided by Section 6(a). This Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by each party and such party's heirs, beneficiaries, executors, successors, representatives and permitted assigns.
Section 16.
Successors and Assigns
     . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, and delivered by means of facsimile transmission or otherwise, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Section 17.
Counterparts
     . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING VALIDITY, INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT, BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE (WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE PROVISIONS THEREOF RELATING TO CONFLICTS OF LAW).
Section 18.
GOVERNING LAW
     . To the extent that a party to this Agreement is not otherwise subject to service of process in the State of Delaware, such party hereby appoints The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, DE 19801, as such party's agent in the State of Delaware for acceptance of legal process, and agrees that service made on such agent shall have the same legal effect as if served upon such party personally within the State of Delaware.
Section 19
.
Appointment of Registered Agent
     . If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable under any applicable law, then such contravention or invalidity shall not invalidate the entire Agreement. Such provision shall be deemed to be modified to the extent necessary to render it legal, valid and enforceable, and if no such modification shall render it legal, valid and enforceable, then this Agreement shall be construed as if not containing the provision held to be invalid, and the rights and obligations of the parties shall be construed and enforced accordingly.
Section 20.
Severability
     . The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 21.
Headings
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to be signed, individually or by its respective officer thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first written above.
 
If to Stockholder:
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
With a copy to:
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Attention: Fax Number: Phone Number:
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    

 
Exhibit 99.1
Anadarko to Acquire Kerr-McGee Corporation & Western Gas Resources, Inc. in Separate Transactions Totaling $23.3 Billion
HOUSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)June 23, 2006Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC):
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC) today announced it has agreed to acquire Kerr-McGee Corporation (NYSE: KMG) and Western Gas Resources, Inc. (NYSE: WGR) in separate all-cash transactions totaling $21.1 billion, plus the assumption of debt estimated at $2.2 billion.
"We are creating a combined company with industry-leading positions in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the Rockies, two of the fastest-growing oil and natural gas producing regions in North America," Anadarko Chairman, President and CEO Jim Hackett said. "The core assets being acquired strongly complement Anadarko's existing properties, providing the scale and focus needed to deliver more robust, predictable and efficient growth. Kerr-McGee's outstanding deepwater holdings and skill sets will elevate Anadarko into the top echelon of deepwater operators. Similarly, Kerr-McGee's long-lived natural gas resource plays in Colorado and Utah, along with Western Gas Resources' in Wyoming, will combine with Anadarko's assets to make us one of the largest producers in several of the most prolific basins in the Rockies. Together, these acquisitions create a more focused portfolio, which will enhance our ability to deliver very competitive growth rates and returns."
Hackett emphasized that the transactions are consistent with Anadarko's strategy, which is built around the company's core competencies in unconventional resource development and high-impact exploration.
"Two years ago, we unveiled a strategy that included a solid North American foundation of onshore resource plays, a growing deepwater Gulf of Mexico program and an expanding international portfolio," he said. "Kerr-McGee and Western Gas Resources strengthen Anadarko's position on all three counts, with captured growth projects that are consistent with our core skill sets. The transactions enable us to create a more focused operating strategy with a larger and lower-risk asset base."
Hackett said Anadarko will conduct a thorough review of the consolidated assets to select divestiture candidates, with the dual goals of paring acquisition-related debt and refocusing the portfolio.
 
"All three companies have certain assets that we will likely deem to be non-core once combined," he said. "Even with divestitures that we believe could generate substantial after-tax proceeds, we expect the proposed acquisitions to be accretive to both earnings and cash flow on a pro forma basis."
Anadarko will finance the acquisitions through a $24 billion, 364-day committed acquisition facility provided by UBS, Credit Suisse and Citigroup. Anadarko plans to use proceeds from asset sales, free cash flow from operations and the issuance of equity to reduce debt over the next 18 to 24 months.
"Given our outlook for energy markets, these transactions make a lot of sense for Anadarko shareholders. We expect to hedge up to 75 percent of the acquired production through late 2008 using a series of three-way collars, with floors designed to ensure a return on our investment and ceilings that allow considerable upside," Hackett said. "We also expect cost reductions as we consolidate certain administrative functions, but the biggest synergies are expected to come from combining the complementary assets of the three companies and the skills of their employees. In today's tight labor markets, gaining qualified people is a bigger focus than achieving cost savings through consolidation.
"Anadarko is offering Kerr-McGee and Western's shareholders significant premiums over the companies' recent current stock prices, but looking backward 30 days results in premiums that are more comparable to precedent transactions. In any case, we believe we are capturing a substantial disconnect between current property valuations and equity market valuations, and gaining some exceptional properties and talent in the process," Hackett said. "The day-one metrics on proved reserves and daily production are in-line with other recent transactions. On a full-cycle basis, including the acquisition and future development costs, we expect to ultimately recover 3.8 billion barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) from the acquired properties at less than $12.00 per BOE. Opportunities to gain access to such large, high-margin resource opportunities at such economic full-cycle costs are rare, and we are excited about the value we expect to create for Anadarko shareholders."
SUMMARY OF THE KERR-MCGEE CORPORATION TRANSACTION
Anadarko has agreed to acquire Kerr-McGee Corporation in an all-cash transaction totaling $16.4 billion, or $70.50 per Kerr-McGee share, plus the assumption of net debt and other liabilities estimated at $1.6 billion.
Kerr-McGee's year-end 2005 proved reserves (excluding pending Gulf of Mexico shelf divestitures) totaled 898 million BOE, of which approximately 62 percent is natural gas. Proven undeveloped reserves represented 30 percent of the total. Production in 2006 is expected to be about 92 million BOE, with natural gas representing approximately 60 percent of the total. Anadarko expects to ultimately recover more than 3.1 billion BOE on the Kerr-McGee properties, at a full-cycle cost
 
of approximately $39.2 billion ($12.40 per BOE), including the acquisition cost.
Kerr-McGee's core properties are located in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and onshore in Colorado and Utah. They include 504 deepwater Gulf of Mexico blocks, encompassing seven operated and three non-operated producing fields, three operated and five non-operated discoveries in varying stages of development, and four additional prospects that will be drilled this year. These assets are supported by Kerr-McGee's extensive "hub-and-spoke" infrastructure, which offers highly cost-effective future development potential. In Colorado, Kerr-McGee holds 451,000 net acres in the Wattenberg natural gas play, located largely on the Land Grant, where Anadarko owns the royalty interest. In Utah, Kerr-McGee holds 237,000 net acres in the Uinta basin's prolific Greater Natural Buttes gas play.
In addition to its extensive, rapidly growing U.S. portfolio, Kerr-McGee produces oil and is continuing to develop and explore offshore China, has made discoveries and is pursuing the development of fields on the North Slope of Alaska and offshore Brazil, and is exploring offshore Australia, West Africa and the islands of Trinidad and Tobago.
Anadarko expects to assign almost the entire acquisition price to Kerr-McGee's oil and natural gas properties. Separate valuations for Kerr-McGee's extensive "midstream" gathering and processing assets are not available, since those assets are operated in conjunction with the upstream properties rather than as a separate business segment.
Refer to the attached schedule for further detail on Kerr-McGee's properties.
Anadarko's and Kerr-McGee's boards of directors have unanimously approved the terms of the agreement, and Kerr-McGee's board has recommended that its shareholders approve the transaction. The agreement includes a right to match competing offers and a break-up fee of $493 million to be paid under certain circumstances. The transaction, subject to the approval of Kerr-McGee shareholders as well as other conditions including customary regulatory approvals, is expected to close by the end of the third quarter.
For Anadarko, Credit Suisse and UBS acted as financial advisors, Goldman Sachs provided the fairness opinion and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP acted as legal counsel.
SUMMARY OF THE WESTERN GAS RESOURCES, INC. TRANSACTION
Anadarko has agreed to acquire Western Gas Resources, Inc. in an all-cash transaction totaling $4.7 billion, or $61.00 per Western Gas Resources share, plus the assumption of debt and other liabilities estimated at $600 million.
 
Western Gas Resources year-end 2005 proven reserves totaled 153 million BOE, with proved undeveloped reserves representing 57 percent of the total, while 2006 production is expected to total about 12.5 million BOE. Essentially all of the reserves and production are natural gas. Anadarko expects to ultimately recover about 705 million BOE on the Western Gas Resources properties, at a full-cycle E&P cost of approximately $6.7 billion, or less than $10 per BOE, including the acquisition cost of the oil and gas properties.
Approximately $1.6 billion of the total acquisition price will be allocated to "midstream" gathering, processing and transportation assets. Virtually all of the remaining value is assigned to two natural gas resource plays in Wyoming: coalbed methane (CBM) in the Powder River Basin, primarily within the Big George coals, and tight gas in the Pinedale field.
Western Gas Resources CBM properties within the Powder River Basin are estimated to hold about 9 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of original gas in place and are directly adjacent to Anadarko's assets in this developing play. Western Gas Resources also has a 10 percent average working interest in their Pinedale/Jonah joint ventures, which encompass world-class fields totaling more than 40 Tcf of original estimated gas in place. Anadarko expects that combining its properties with Western's will accelerate the development of these natural gas resources and produce strong volume growth through the end of the decade, and possibly longer, with more than 12,000 identified drilling locations in inventory.
Refer to the attached schedule for further detail on Western Gas Resources' properties.
Anadarko's and Western Gas Resources' boards of directors have unanimously approved the terms of the agreement, and Western's board has recommended that its shareholders approve the transaction. The agreement includes a right to match competing offers and a break-up fee of $154 million to be paid under certain circumstances. Holders of 17 percent of Western's outstanding common shares have agreed to vote in favor of the transaction. Subject to the approval of Western Gas Resources' shareholders as well as other conditions including customary regulatory approvals, the transaction is expected to close by the end of the third quarter.
For Anadarko, Credit Suisse and UBS acted as financial advisors, Goldman Sachs provided the fairness opinion and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP acted as legal counsel.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Anadarko believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct or that the transactions described above will occur. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the
 
projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this news release. See "Risk Factors" in the company's 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and other public filings, press releases and discussions with company management. Anadarko undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
ANALYST CONFERENCE CALL TODAY AT 8:30 A.M. CDT, 9:30 A.M. EDT
Anadarko will host an analyst conference call today, Friday, June 23, 2006 at 8:30 a.m. Central Daylight Time (9:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time) to discuss the transactions. The dial-in number is 913-981-4900, and the confirmation number is 1843925. For complete instructions on how to actively participate in the conference call, or to listen to the live audio webcast or a replay, please refer to www.anadarko.com.
MEDIA CONFERENCE CALL TODAY AT 10:30 A.M. CDT, 11:30 A.M. EDT
Anadarko will host a media conference call today, Friday, June 23, 2006 at 10:30 a.m. Central Daylight Time (11:30 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time) to discuss the transactions. The dial-in number is 913-981-5591, and the confirmation number is 7678745. This call is for professional working journalists only. Participants will be required to register prior to joining the call.
ABOUT ANADARKO
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the world's health and welfare. As of year-end 2005, the company had 2.45 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies. Anadarko's operational focus in North America extends from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, up through the western U.S. and Canadian regions and onto the North Slope of Alaska. Anadarko's international activities are focused on major positions in North Africa, the Middle East and Indonesia, as well as exploration or production operations in several other countries. For more information about how Anadarko is bringing excellence to the surface, please visit: www.anadarko.com.
 
     Transaction Details  Kerr-McGee Corporation (NYSE: KMG)
 
                    
     Transaction Details  Western Gas Resources, Inc. (NYSE: WGR)
 
 


