FILE:APC/APC-8K-20070806213113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02(d) Election of Directors
On August 6, 2007, the Board of Directors of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") elected Paula Rosput Reynolds and Peter J. Fluor as independent directors of the Company.
Both Ms. Reynolds, age 50, and Mr. Fluor, age 59, were elected as Class II directors with terms expiring in 2009. Ms. Reynolds was appointed to the Audit Committee, and Mr. Fluor was appointed to the Compensation and Benefits Committee. Both will also serve on the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Upon their election to the Board, Ms. Reynolds and Mr. Fluor each automatically received an initial equity award of 2,972 deferred shares. Such shares shall be distributed to each of Ms. Reynolds and Mr. Fluor upon their respective departures from the Board. Ms. Reynolds and Mr. Fluor each received the full quarterly Board and applicable committee retainers for the third quarter of 2007. Ms. Reynolds and Mr. Fluor will also receive the standard Board and committee retainers and meeting fees for non-management directors, plus expenses related to attendance, as well as the annual grants of deferred shares and stock options that are automatically awarded each year on the date of the Company's annual shareholder meeting. The specific amounts and terms of these awards, as most recently approved by the Board's Compensation and Benefits Committee, are described further in the Company's annual proxy statement that was filed with the Commission on March 27, 2007.
Ms. Reynolds and Mr. Fluor will also each enter into a director indemnification agreement with the Company, the form of which has been previously filed with the Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized officer.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
, Aug. 6, 2007  Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC) announced today that its Board of Directors has elected Paula Rosput Reynolds and Peter J. Fluor to serve as independent directors of the company.
HOUSTON
     "We are very fortunate to have Paula and Peter join our Board of Directors," Anadarko Chairman, President and CEO Jim Hackett said. "Their leadership and expertise, both in the energy sector and across other industries, will be valuable assets for Anadarko as we continue to execute upon our business strategy."
     Ms. Reynolds is President and Chief Executive Officer of Safeco Corporation, a property and casualty insurance company. Prior to joining Safeco, she served as Chairman, President and CEO of AGL Resources Inc., a regional energy services holding company. Ms. Reynolds also previously served as President and CEO of Houston-based Duke Energy North America, a subsidiary of Duke Energy, which operated power-generating facilities across the United States, and as senior vice president of Pacific Gas Transmission Company, which owned and operated a major natural gas pipeline in the Pacific Northwest. She is also a director of Safeco Corporation and Delta Air Lines, Inc.
     Mr. Fluor is Chairman and CEO of Texas Crude Energy, Inc., a private, independent oil and gas exploration company. Mr. Fluor also serves as lead director of Fluor Corporation and director of Cameron International Corporation and The Welch Foundation. He is a member of the All American Wildcatters Association and The Council of Overseers of the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Management at Rice University.
     Both Ms. Reynolds and Mr. Fluor were appointed to terms expiring in 2009. Ms. Reynolds will serve on the Audit Committee, and Mr. Fluor will serve on the Compensation and Benefits Committee. Both will serve on the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
 
2
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the world's health and welfare. As of year-end 2006, the company had 3.0 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies. For more information about Anadarko, please visit www.anadarko.com.
Anadarko Contacts
John Christiansen, , 832.636.8736 Paula Beasley, , 832.636.8765
Media:
john.christiansen@anadarko.com
paula.beasley@anadarko.com
John Colglazier, , 832.636.2306 Chris Campbell, CFA, , 832.636.8434
Investors:
john.colglazier@anadarko.com
chris.campbell@anadarko.com


