FILE:APC/APC-8K-20070123170619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02(e) Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On January 10, 2007, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") approved special equity awards for certain executive officers to, among other things, recognize such officers' leadership and contributions related to the Company's successful acquisition of Kerr-McGee Corporation and Western Gas Resources, Inc., and to incentivize future performance related to these accomplishments. Messrs. Hackett, Kurz, Reeves and Walker recently requested that the Committee consider modifying such option awards so that they could only realize the value of such awards after the Company's stock price exceeds the trading price prior to the announcement of the acquisitions. On January 23, 2007 the Committee modified the terms of such stock option awards for these officers to raise the strike price of their option awards from $40.51 to $48.90. Each of these officers has executed an amendment to his respective stock option agreement reflecting this change in strike price.
A copy of the form of amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized officer.
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
     , made as of January 23, 2007 by and between Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the ) and [Name] (the ), evidences the agreement to amend the Stock Option Agreement (the ) granted as of January 10, 2007 (the ) in accordance with the provisions of Section 7(b) of the Anadarko Petroleum Corporation 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (the ) and Section 11 of the Option.
THIS AMENDMENT TO THE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
"Company"
"Participant"
"Option"
"Date of Grant"
"Plan"
     The Company and the Participant agree as follows:
     1. . The Exercise Price of the Option will be raised from $40.51, which per share price equals the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of a share of Company common stock on the Date of Grant, to $48.90.
Modification of Exercise Price
     2. . The parties agree that the Option is amended with respect to the increase in the Exercise Price alone and that all other terms and conditions remain as agreed to on the Date of Grant.
No Other Changes
     , the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF


