FILE:APC/APC-8K-20080527172124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On February 12, 2008, the Board of Directors of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") adopted the Anadarko Petroleum Corporation 2008 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Omnibus Plan"), subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders. On May 20, 2008, at the Company's annual meeting of stockholders, the Company's stockholders approved the Omnibus Plan.
     In connection with the approval of the Omnibus Plan, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that no future grants of awards will be made under the 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1999 Plan") and the Annual Incentive Plan. The equity awards previously granted under the 1999 Plan will remain outstanding in accordance with their terms. A maximum of 33,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock are available under the Omnibus Plan, which includes 4,041,611 shares of common stock rolled over from the 1999 Plan.
     The following is a summary of the principal provisions of the Omnibus Plan. The following summary does not purport to be a complete description of the provisions of the Omnibus Plan and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Omnibus Plan. The Omnibus Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. All capitalized terms that are not defined in this Item 5.02 are defined in the Omnibus Plan.
 
General Terms
     Any employee of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company is eligible to receive awards under the Omnibus Plan. The Omnibus Plan, which has a term of 10 years from the date of stockholder approval (unless terminated earlier), provides for awards in any combination of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and/or restricted stock units; performance shares and/or performance units; incentive awards; cash awards and other stock-based awards. The Omnibus Plan imposes annual per-participant award limits based on the type of award and the type of employee. Also, the Omnibus Plan does not allow downward pricing of stock options (without stockholder approval), reloads or the granting of discounted options.
     With respect to covered employees and Section 16 Insiders, the Omnibus Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee. The Management Committee will administer the Omnibus Plan with respect to all other employees.
     Grants awarded under the Omnibus Plan may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any manner other than by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution unless the participant has received the Company's prior written consent.
     The Plan Administrator may not amend the Omnibus Plan without stockholder approval to the extent such approval is required by applicable law or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
Award Terms
     All awards to employees under the Omnibus Plan are subject to the terms, conditions and limitations as determined by the Plan Administrator. Awards may be made in combination with, in replacement of, or as alternatives to, grants under the Omnibus Plan or other plans of the Company or its subsidiaries, including plans of any acquired entity.
     Under the Omnibus Plan, employees may be granted either incentive stock options that comply with the requirements of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code or nonqualified stock options that do not comply with those requirements. Stock options must have an exercise price per share that is not less than the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, except in the case of stock options granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by an acquired company or a company with which the Company combines. Subject to certain adjustment provisions that only apply to specified corporate events or the approval of the Company's stockholders, the exercise price of all stock options granted under the Omnibus Plan may not be decreased. Stock options have a maximum term of ten years from the date of grant. Employees may pay the exercise price with cash or its equivalent, with previously acquired shares of the Company's common stock, or by any other means approved by the Plan Administrator, including by means of a broker-assisted exercise.
     Stock appreciation rights may be granted under the Omnibus Plan in tandem with a stock option, in whole or in part, or may be granted separately. The exercise price of a stock appreciation right may not be less than the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, except in the case of stock appreciation rights granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by an acquired company or a company with which the Company combines. Subject to certain adjustment provisions that only apply to specified corporate events or the approval of the Company's stockholders, the exercise price of all stock appreciation
 
rights made under the Omnibus Plan may not be decreased. Stock appreciation rights have a maximum term of ten years from the date of grant.
     A restricted stock award consists of shares of stock that are transferred to the participant subject to restrictions that may result in forfeiture if specified conditions are not satisfied. Rights to dividends may be extended to and made part of a restricted stock award, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator. A holder of restricted stock is treated as a current stockholder and is entitled to voting rights. A restricted stock unit award results in the transfer of shares of stock to the participant only after specified conditions are satisfied. Rights to dividend equivalents, payable in cash or shares, may be extended to and made part of any restricted stock unit award, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator. A holder of a restricted stock unit award is treated as a stockholder with respect to the award only when the shares of common stock are delivered in the future. Except as permitted by the Plan Administrator and specified in the award agreement, restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards settled in stock that are not performance-based will vest over a minimum period of three years, and restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards settled in stock that are performance-based will vest over a minimum period of one year.
     A performance award (whether granted as a performance share or a performance unit) consists of a grant made subject to the attainment of one or more performance goals for a specified performance period (as determined by the Plan Administrator) and may be intended to meet the requirements of qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. Performance awards will only be earned by participants if the performance goals are met for the performance period. At the discretion of the Plan Administrator and as prescribed in the award agreement, payment may be made in the form of cash, shares or a combination of cash and shares.
     Incentive awards consist of grants denominated in cash and may be intended to meet the requirements of qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Plan Administrator will determine the performance goals applicable to the payout for incentive awards to Covered Employees for each performance period. The Compensation Committee cannot adjust an incentive award upward for a Covered Employee, but retains the discretion to adjust the incentive award downward. At the discretion of the Plan Administrator, payment of incentive awards may be made in cash and/or other equity-based awards as provided under the Omnibus Plan and will be paid no later than March 15 following the end of the calendar year for which the incentive awards are applicable.
     For any awards intended to meet the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the grant or vesting of such awards may be based upon one or more performance goals that apply to the specified participant, one or more business units of the company, or the Company as a whole. Prior to the payment of any award based on the achievement of performance goals intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Compensation Committee must certify in writing that the applicable performance goals and any material terms were, in fact, satisfied.
     Cash awards may be made to participants as determined by the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator will determine the terms and conditions of such cash awards, including whether the payout of such awards is subject to the achievement of performance goals.
 
     Other stock-based awards may be equity-based or equity-related awards other than stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares or performance units. The terms and conditions of other stock-based awards will be determined by the Plan Administrator. Payment under any other stock-based awards may be made in common stock or cash, as determined by the Plan Administrator.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
     On May 20, 2008, the Board approved amendments to the Company's By-Laws. Apart from non-substantive language and conforming changes and other technical and cross-reference edits, the By-Laws were amended and restated in the manner summarized below. The summary of the amendments made to the existing By-Laws of the Company is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety to the By-Laws, amended and restated as of May 20, 2008 and attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this current report on Form 8-K.
     Section 2.3 of Article II has been revised to permit a majority of the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President to call a special meeting of the stockholders.
     Section 2.9 of Article II has been revised to require that stockholders seeking to nominate individuals as directors or make other proposals at the annual meeting of stockholders comply with the same type of disclosure requirements for Company-nominated directors. This revised section also requires disclosure of all forms of ownership, all relationships, agreements, proxies and other agreements that would entitle or enable such stockholder to acquire equity in the Company or control votes.
     Section 2.10 of Article II has been added to require each stockholder to provide the Company with a written questionnaire concerning the director nominee, which includes certain representations to the Company.
     Section 3.1 of Article III has been modified by the deletion of historical information regarding various classes of the Board. This section was also revised to permit directors to resign at any time by submitting a written or electronic transmission to the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary of the Company.
     Sections 5.3 through 5.5 of Article V have been added to provide descriptions of the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Benefits Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee which are consistent with such descriptions contained in the relevant charters of such committees.
     Sections 7.2(D) and 7.2(E) of Article VII have been added to permit the Chief Executive Officer to appoint and remove officers below the Senior Vice President level and to establish compensation for such officers unless they are officers as defined under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Section 16"). Section 16 officers and Senior Vice Presidents and above will continue to be elected by the entire Board with their compensation established by the Compensation and Benefits Committee. This section was also revised to describe the resignation and removal procedures for the officers and to include descriptions of each of the executive officer positions.
 
     Section 9.1 of Article IX has been revised to permit the Board to indemnify employees or agents of the Company.
     On February 12, 2008, the Board adopted the 2008 Director Compensation Plan (the "Director Plan"), subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders. On May 20, 2008, at the Company's annual meeting of stockholders, the Company's stockholders approved the Director Plan.
     In connection with the approval of the Director Plan, the Board has determined that no future grants of awards will be made under the 1998 Director Stock Plan (the "1998 Plan"). The equity awards previously granted under the 1998 Plan will remain outstanding in accordance with their terms. A maximum of 1,500,000 common shares of the Company are available under the Director Plan.
     The following is a summary of the principal provisions of the Director Plan. The following summary does not purport to be a complete description of the provisions of the Director Plan and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Director Plan. The Director Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. All capitalized terms that are not defined in this Item 8.01 are defined in the Director Plan.
General Terms
     Any non-employee director is eligible to receive awards under the Director Plan. The Director Plan, which has a term of 10 years from the date of stockholder approval (unless terminated earlier), provides for awards in any combination of nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and/or restricted stock units and other stock-based awards. The Director Plan does not allow downward pricing of stock options (without stockholder approval), reloads or the granting of discounted options.
     The Compensation Committee has the right to amend, suspend or terminate the Director Plan at any time, provided, however, that no amendment, suspension or termination shall impair the right of a participant to receive any benefits accrued under the Director Plan prior to the effective date of such amendment, suspension or termination. Moreover, the Compensation Committee may not amend the Director Plan without stockholder approval to the extent such approval is required by applicable law or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
Award Terms
     All awards to non-employee directors under the Director Plan are subject to the terms, conditions and limitations as determined by the Plan Administrator.
     Under the Director Plan, non-employee directors may be granted nonqualified stock options. Stock options must have an exercise price per share that is not less than the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant, except in the case of stock options granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by an acquired company or a company with which Anadarko combines. Subject to certain adjustment provisions that only apply to specified corporate events or the approval of our stockholders, the exercise price of all stock options granted under the Director Plan may not be decreased. Stock options have a maximum term of ten years from the date of grant. Non-employee directors may pay the exercise price with cash or its equivalent, with previously acquired shares of our common stock, or by any other means approved by the Plan Administrator, including by means of a broker-assisted exercise.
     Stock appreciation rights may be granted under the Director Plan in tandem with a stock option, in whole or in part, or may be granted separately. The exercise price of a stock appreciation right may not be less than the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant, except in the case of stock appreciation rights granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by an acquired company or a company with which the Company combines. Subject to certain adjustment provisions that only apply to specified corporate events or the approval of our stockholders, the exercise price of all stock appreciation rights made under the Director Plan may not be decreased. Stock appreciation rights have a maximum term of ten years from the date of grant.
     A restricted stock award consists of shares of stock that are transferred to the participant subject to restrictions that may result in forfeiture if specified conditions are not satisfied. Rights to dividends may be extended to and made part of a restricted stock award, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator. A holder of restricted stock is treated as a current stockholder and is entitled to voting rights. A restricted stock unit award results in the transfer of shares of stock to the participant only after specified conditions are satisfied. Rights to dividend equivalents, payable in cash or shares, may be extended to and made part of any restricted stock unit award, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator. A holder of a restricted stock unit award is treated as a stockholder with respect to the award only when the shares of common stock are delivered in the future. Except as permitted by the Plan Administrator and specified in the award agreement, restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards will be subject to a time vesting period of no less than one year from the date of grant.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized officer.
 

Exhibit 3.1
Amended and Restated as of May 20, 2008
 
 
     1.1. The Corporation shall maintain a registered office in Delaware, and may maintain such other offices and keep its books, documents and records at such places within or without Delaware as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (hereinafter the "Board" or the "Board of Directors").
     2.1. All meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such place or places, if any, within or without the State of Delaware, as may from time to time be fixed by the Board of Directors, or as shall be specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.
     2.2. The Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as may be fixed by the Board and stated in the notice thereof, for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of only such other business as is properly brought before the meeting in accordance with these By-Laws.
     2.3. Special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by a majority of the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons. The business transacted at a special meeting shall be confined to the purposes specified in the notice thereof. Special meetings shall be held at such date and at such time as the Board may designate.
     2.4. Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a notice of meeting of stockholders shall be given that shall state the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes thereof. Unless otherwise provided by law, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the notice of any such meeting shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of such meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting.
     2.5. Unless otherwise provided by law, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the holders of a majority in voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at the meeting, present either in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at such meeting. Whether or not a quorum is present, the holders of a majority in voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to
 
vote at the meeting, present in person or by proxy, may adjourn the meeting from time to time to another time or place, at which time, if a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally scheduled. Notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, unless the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days or, if after the adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, in which event a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
     2.6. Except as otherwise provided by or pursuant to the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting shall be entitled, for each share held of record on the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder who has voting power on the question. Except as otherwise provided by these By-Laws, each director shall be elected by the vote of a majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if, as of the tenth (10th) day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders of the Corporation, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast. For purposes of this Section 2.6 of these By-Laws, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election (with "abstentions" and "broker nonvotes" not counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election).
     In order for any incumbent director to become a nominee of the Board of Directors for further service on the Board of Directors, such person must submit an irrevocable resignation, contingent on (i) that person not receiving a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, and (ii) acceptance of that resignation by the Board of Directors in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Directors for such purpose. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the nominating and governance committee, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors pursuant to these Bylaws, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision regarding the resignation and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision within ninety (90) days following certification of the election results. The committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision each may consider any factors and other information that they consider appropriate and relevant.
     All other matters presented to the stockholders at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall, unless otherwise provided by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, these By-laws, the rules and regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation, or applicable law or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the Corporation or its securities, be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of capital stock of the
 
Corporation entitled to vote at the meeting present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter.
     Elections of directors need not be by ballot; provided however, that by resolution duly adopted, a vote by ballot may be required.
     2.7. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by delivering to the Secretary of the Corporation a revocation of the proxy or a new proxy bearing a later date.
     2.8. The Corporation may, and shall if required by law, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall (i) ascertain the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and the voting power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
     2.9. .
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
          (A) .
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
               (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who (i) was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 2.9 and at the time of the annual meeting, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting and (iii) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.9 as to such business or nomination; clause (c) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or
 
submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of stockholders.
               (2) Without qualification, for nominations or any other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Section 2.9, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90) day, nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120) day, prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90) day prior to such annual meeting or , if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than one hundred (100) days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the tenth (10) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the public announcement thereof commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. To be in proper form, a stockholder's notice must: (a) set forth, as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, if any; (ii) (A) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Company, (D) any short interest in any security of the Company (for purposes of this Section 2.9 a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee)
th
th
th
th
th
 
that such stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date); (iii) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (y) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (z) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination, (b) if the notice relates to any business other than a nomination of a director or directors that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, set forth (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest of such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, in such business and (ii) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder; (c) set forth, as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the Board of Directors (i) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected) and (ii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; and (d) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by paragraph 2 of this Section 2.9. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
 
               (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Section 2.9 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 2.9 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
th
          (B) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who (a) is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 2.9 and at the time of the special meeting, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (iii) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.9 as to such nomination. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Section 2.9 with respect to any nomination (including the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by paragraph 2 of this Section 2.9) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90) day prior to such special meeting or if the first public announcement of the date of such special meeting is less than one hundred (100) days prior to the date of such special meeting, the tenth (10) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a special meeting or the public announcement thereof commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders
th
th
th
          (C) . (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.9 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.9. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.9 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which
General
 
solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (A)(2)(a)(iv) of this Section 2.9) and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Section 2.9, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.9, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 2.9, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
               (2) For purposes of this Section 2.9, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
               (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.9, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.9; provided, however, that any references in these By-Laws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to nominations or proposals to any other business to be considered pursuant to Section 2.9. Nothing in this Section 2.9 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
     2.10. Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement. To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 1 of this By-Law) to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected
 
as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and (C) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
     2.11. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of meeting or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. The list of stockholders must also be open to examination at the meeting as required by applicable law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the list of stockholders required by this Section 2.11 or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
     2.12. The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding person of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted for questions or comments by participants. The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
 
     3.1. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than six (6) nor more than fifteen (15) directors, the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. The directors shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the Board of Directors. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. A director shall hold office until the Annual Meeting for the year in which his term expires and until his successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, provided that a quorum is present, and any other vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor.
     Any director may resign at any time by giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect on the date of receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein; and the acceptance of such resignation, unless otherwise required by the terms thereof, shall not be necessary to make it effective.
     Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, any director may be removed, but only for cause, at any special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose, by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in number of shares of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of such director, and the vacancy in the Board caused by any such removed may be filled by the stockholders at such meeting.
     3.2. The Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by the laws of Delaware or by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
     4.1. The first meeting of the Board of Directors after the Annual Meeting of Stockholders may be held without notice, either immediately after said meeting of stockholders
 
and at the place where it was held, or at such other time and place, whether within or without Delaware, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, or by the consent of all the directors.
     4.2. Regular meetings of the Board may be held without notice at such time and place, whether within or without Delaware, as shall from time to time be determined by the Board.
     4.3. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request in writing of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President or of any three directors. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting. Such meetings may be held at any place, whether within or without Delaware. Notice of each such meeting shall be given to each director at least forty-eight (48) hours before the meeting. Such notice shall set forth the time and place at which the meeting is to be held and the purpose or purposes thereof. No such notice of any given meeting need be given to any director who files a waiver of notice thereof with the Secretary, either before or after the meeting.
     4.4. A quorum for the transaction of business at meetings of the Board of Directors shall consist of the directors entitled to cast a majority of the votes of the directors then in office. In the absence of a quorum at any duly scheduled or duly called meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present, at which time any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally scheduled. Except in cases in which the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws or applicable law otherwise provides, a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board.
     4.5. Members of the Board, or any committee designated by the Board, may participate in a meeting thereof by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to these By-Laws shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
     Unless otherwise restricted by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or such committee in accordance with applicable law.
     5.1. .
General
          (A) The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority vote of the Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of two or more directors. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the
 
committee. Any such committee shall have and may exercise such powers as are designated in the resolution of the Board or set forth in these By-Laws.
          (B) Resignations of members of a committee shall be effective upon delivery unless the resignation specifies a later effective date or an effective date determined upon the happening of an event or events. Any member of a committee may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by a majority vote of the Board.
          (C) Regular meetings of a committee may be held without notice at such time and place as shall from time to time be determined by the committee. Special meetings of a committee shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the committee or of any two members of the committee. Notice of each special meeting of a committee shall be given by the Secretary of the Corporation or by the directors or directors calling such meeting to each member of the committee. No such notice of any meeting need be given to any member of a committee who attends the meeting or who files a waiver of notice thereof with the Secretary, either before or after the meeting.
          (D) Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may adopt, amend and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of a provision by the Board, a provision in the rules of such committee or a provision in the By-Laws to the contrary, a majority of the entire number of members of such committee (not including any alternate members unless such alternate members are attending such meeting for members of the committee that are absent from such meeting) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then present shall be the act of such committee. If the Board has not designated alternate members of a committee, or if all such alternates are absent or disqualified from voting, the member or members of the committee present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may in the absence or disqualification of any member of the committee unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of such absent or disqualified member.
          (E) Each committee may designate a chairman of such committee by majority vote of the committee's full membership, unless designation of a chairman is otherwise specified in these By-Laws or provided by resolution of the Board of Directors.
          (F) Each committee shall keep regular minutes of proceedings, copies of which shall be made available to each member of the Board of Directors.
     5.2. .
Executive Committee
          The Board of Directors may designate an Executive Committee. During the intervals between meetings of the Board, the Committee shall advise and aid the officers of the Corporation in all matters concerning its interests and the management of its business, and generally perform such duties as may be directed by the Board of Directors from time to time. The Committee shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation while the Board is not in session, and
 
may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but the Committee shall not have power or authority in reference to amending the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, amending the By-Laws, filling newly created directorships and vacancies on the Board or any committee, or (unless expressly authorized by resolution of the Board) declaring a dividend or authorizing the issuance of stock.
     5.3.
Audit Committee.
     The Board of Directors shall designate annually an Audit Committee consisting of not less than three directors as it may from time to time determine, none of whom shall be officers or employees of the Corporation. The committee shall review with the independent accountants the Corporation's financial statements, basic accounting and financial policies and practices, adequacy of controls, standard and special tests used in verifying the Corporation's statements of account and in determining the soundness of the Corporation's financial condition, and the committee shall report to the Board the results of such reviews; review the policies and practices pertaining to publication of quarterly and annual statements to assure consistency with audited results and the implementation of policies and practices recommended by the independent accountants; ensure that suitable independent audits are made of the operations and results of subsidiary corporations and affiliates; and monitor compliance with the Corporation's code of business conduct and ethics. The committee shall have such other duties, functions and powers as the Board may from time to time prescribe.
     5.4.
Compensation and Benefits Committee.
     The Board of Directors shall designate annually a Compensation and Benefits Committee consisting of not less than two directors as it may from time to time determine, none of whom shall be officers or employees of the Corporation. The committee shall administer the Corporation's executive compensation plans and programs. In addition, the committee shall consider proposals with respect to the creation of and changes to executive compensation plans and will review appropriate criteria for establishing certain performance measures under applicable Corporation plans and programs. The committee shall have such other duties, functions and powers as the Board may from time to time prescribe.
     5.5.
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
     The Board of Directors shall designate annually a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee consisting of not less than two directors as it may from time to time determine, none of whom shall be officers or employees of the Corporation. The committee shall have responsibilities relating to corporate governance and criteria for Board selection. The committee shall develop and recommend to the Board a set of corporate governance principles or guidelines applicable to the Corporation, identify individuals qualified to become members of the Board, consistent with criteria approved by the Board, select, or recommend that the Board select, the director nominees for the next annual meeting of stockholders, and consider any nominations submitted by the stockholders to the Secretary in accordance with these By-Laws, the
 
Corporation's corporate governance guidelines or applicable law. The committee shall have such other duties, functions and powers as the Board may from time to time prescribe.
     6.1. Each director shall, in consideration of his serving as a director, be paid by the Corporation such reasonable compensation as shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee, together with travel, food, lodging and other expenses incurred in attending meetings of the Board, provided that no director who is also an employee of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive any compensation for his services as a director.
     6.2. Members of committees of the Board of Directors may receive such reasonable compensation for their services as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors, provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any member of any committee from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
     7.1. .
General
          (A) The officers of the Corporation shall consist of such of the following as the Board of Directors shall from time to time elect or appoint, or as the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time appoint pursuant to Section 7.2 of this Article VII: a Chief Executive Officer, a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a President, a Chief Operating Officer, a Chief Financial Officer, one or more Vice Presidents (one or more of whom may be designated Executive Vice President, one or more of whom may be designated Group Vice President and one or more of whom may be designated Senior Vice President), a Secretary, a Treasurer, a Controller, and a General Counsel. The principal officers (except those who may be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer as provided in Section 7.2 of this Article VII), if determined by the Board of Directors, shall be elected each year at the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation. Two or more offices may be held by the same person. Officers of the Corporation may simultaneously serve as officers of subsidiaries or divisions thereof. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen by the directors from their own number and may be an officer of the Corporation as the Board may determine. The salaries of the principal officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board or a committee of the Board.
          (B) The Board may appoint such other officers, assistant officers and agents as it shall deem necessary, who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined by the Board.
          (C) Any elected or appointed officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary of the
 
Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect upon the date of its receipt or at such later time as may be specified therein, and unless otherwise required by the terms thereof, no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective.
          (D) Any elected or appointed officer may be removed, with or without cause, by the Board at any regular or special meeting of the Board, and in the case of an officer appointed pursuant to Section 7.2 of this Article VII, may be so removed by the Chief Executive officer. Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation, but the election or appointment of any officer shall not itself create contractual rights.
          (E) Unless he resigns, dies or is removed prior thereto, each officer of the Corporation shall hold office until his successor has been elected or appointed and has qualified.
     7.2.
Chief Executive Officer.
          (A) The Board of Directors shall designate the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
          (B) He shall preside at meetings of the stockholders or directors in the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman, if any.
          (C) All other officers of the Corporation shall be subordinate to the Chief Executive Officer and shall from time to time report to him as he may direct. He shall have general supervision and direction of the business of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board are carried into effect.
          (D) The Chief Executive Officer shall have authority to sign and acknowledge in the name and on behalf of the Corporation all stock certificates, contracts or other documents and instruments, except where the signing thereof shall be expressly delegated to some other officer or agent by the Board or required by law to be otherwise signed or executed and, unless otherwise provided by law or by the Board may authorize any officer, employee or agent of the corporation to sign, execute and acknowledge in his place and stead all such documents and instruments; he shall fix the compensation of officers of the Corporation, other than his own compensation, and the compensation of officers of its principal operating subsidiaries reporting directly to him unless such authority is otherwise reserved to the Board or a committee thereof; and he shall approve proposed employee compensation and benefit plans of subsidiary companies not involving the issuance or purchase of capital stock of the Corporation. He shall have the power to appoint and remove any Vice President, Controller, Secretary or Treasurer of the Corporation; provided that officers subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, shall be elected by the Board. He shall also have the power to appoint and remove such associate or assistant officers of the Corporation with such titles and duties as he may from time to time deem necessary or appropriate. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Board or the Executive Committee of the Board.
 
          (E) The Chief Executive Officer shall have such power and authority as is usual, customary and desirable to perform all the duties of the office (including, but not limited to, the approval of payments or arrangements made in connection with the Corporation's debt, interest, tax, contractual, and regulatory obligations) necessary to, and consistent with, the businesses of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Chief Executive Officer (and other officers of the Corporation as delegated by the Chief Executive Officer or as authorized in these By-Laws) may delegate the foregoing authorization to other officers, employees, and agents of the Corporation by either written authorization (including powers of attorney) or otherwise, unless such authorization is expressly reserved for the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or other officer, as applicable.
          (F) In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board and the Lead Director, or at their request, the Chief Executive Officer may preside at any meeting of the stockholders or of the Board and, in such circumstances, may exercise any of the other powers or perform any of the other duties of the Chairman of the Board.
     7.3.
Chairman of the Board.
          (A) The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the directors.
          (B) He shall be a member and chairman of the Executive Committee.
          (C) He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
     7.4.
Vice Chairman of the Board.
          (A) If the Board designates a Vice Chairman of the Board, he shall preside at meetings of the stockholders or directors in the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board.
          (B) He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
     7.5.
President.
          The President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. Subject to the foregoing, the President shall have direct management responsibility for the general business and affairs of the Corporation, and over all subordinate officers, agents and employees of the Corporation, and he shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be incident to the office of president of a corporation, those duties assigned to him by other provisions of the By-Laws, and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him either directly or indirectly by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, or Chief Executive Officer, including the power to sign and acknowledge in the name and on behalf of the Corporation all stock certificates, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other documents and instruments except when
 
the signing thereof shall be expressly delegated to some other officer or agent by the Board, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or required by law to be otherwise signed or executed and, unless otherwise provided by law or by the Board, may delegate to any officer, employee or agent of the Corporation authority to sign, execute and acknowledge in his place and stead all such documents and instruments.
     7.6.
Chief Operating Officer.
     If the Board designates a Chief Operating Officer, such officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. Subject to the foregoing, the Chief Operating Officer shall have direct management responsibility for the general business operations of the Corporation, and he shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be incident to the office of chief operating officer of a corporation, those duties assigned to him by other provisions of the By-Laws, and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him either directly or indirectly by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer or the President. Subject to delegations by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 7.2 of this Article VII, the Chief Operating Officer may sign or execute, in the name of the Corporation, all stock certificates, deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other documents and instruments, except in cases where the signing or execution thereof shall be required by law or shall have been expressly delegated by the Board or these By-Laws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation.
     7.7.
Chief Financial Officer.
          (A) The Chief Financial Officer shall have responsibility for development and administration of the Corporation's financial plans and all financial arrangements, its cash deposits and short-term investments, its accounting policies and its federal and state tax returns. The Chief Financial Officer shall also be responsible for the Corporation's internal control procedures and for its relationship with the financial community. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform all the duties incident to the office of chief financial officer of a corporation, those duties assigned to him by other provisions of these By-laws and such other duties as may be assigned to him either directly or indirectly by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer, or as may be provided by law.
          (B) He shall, when requested, counsel with and advise the other officers of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as such officer may agree with the Chief Executive Officer or as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
     7.8.
Executive Vice President.
     If the Board designates one or more Executive Vice Presidents, such officer or officers shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer and shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all the duties of the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board and the President in the absence or disability of all of said officers. Each Executive Vice President shall have all the powers and duties granted and delegated to each Group Vice President, Senior Vice President and Vice President by these By-Laws.
 
     7.9.
Group Vice President.
     If the Board designates one or more Group Vice Presidents, such officer or officers shall have general direction of and supervision over such operating offices of the Corporation or over such departments of the Corporation and its subsidiaries as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may prescribe. Each Group Vice President shall have all the powers and duties granted and delegated to each Vice President (other than the Executive Vice Presidents) by these By-Laws and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. In the absence or disability of the President and the Executive Vice Presidents, each Group Vice President shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all the duties of said officers.
     7.10. .
General Counsel
     If the Board designates a General Counsel, the General Counsel shall be the principal legal officer of the Corporation. He shall have general direction of and supervision over the legal affairs of the Corporation and shall advise the Board of Directors and officers of the Corporation on all legal matters. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
     7.11. .
Senior Vice President
     If the Board designates one or more Senior Vice Presidents, such officer or officers shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. In the absence or disability of the President, the Executive Vice Presidents and the Group Vice Presidents, each Senior Vice President shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all the duties of said officers.
     7.12. .
Vice President
     Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. In the absence or disability of the President, the Executive Vice Presidents, the Group Vice Presidents and the Senior Vice Presidents, each Vice President shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all the duties of said officers.
     7.13. .
Secretary
     The Secretary shall attend all sessions of the Board and all meetings of the stockholders and record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in a book to be kept for that purpose. He shall perform like duties for committees of the Board when required. He shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, when notice is required by these By-Laws. He shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation, and, when authorized by the Board of Directors, or when any instrument requiring the corporate seal to be affixed shall first have been signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer,
 
the Vice Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President, shall affix the seal to such instrument and shall attest the same by his signature. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
     7.14. .
Assistant Secretary
     If the Board appoints one or more Assistant Secretaries, each Assistant Secretary shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all the duties of the Secretary at the request of or in the absence or disability of the Secretary. The performance of any act or the execution of any instrument by an Assistant Secretary in any instance in which such performance or execution would customarily have been accomplished by the Secretary shall constitute conclusive evidence of the request, absence or disability of the Secretary. Each Assistant Secretary shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the Secretary.
     7.15. .
Treasurer
          (A) The Treasurer shall have custody of the corporate funds and securities, and he shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation, in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors.
          (B) He shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as ordered by the Board, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, at the regular meetings of the Board, or whenever they may require it, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation.
          (C) If required by the Board of Directors, he shall give the Corporation a bond in a sum and with one or more sureties satisfactory to the Board, for the faithful performance of the duties of his office, and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Corporation.
          (D) He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer.
     7.16. .
Assistant Treasurer
     If the Board appoints one or more Assistant Treasurers, each Assistant Treasurer shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all the duties of the Treasurer at the request of or in the absence or disability of the Treasurer. The performance of any act or the execution of any instrument by an Assistant Treasurer in any instance in which such performance or execution would customarily have been accomplished by the Treasurer shall constitute conclusive evidence of the request, absence or disability of the Treasurer. Each Assistant
 
Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer.
     7.17. .
Controller
     If determined by the Board of Directors, the Controller shall be the principal accounting officer of the Corporation. He shall maintain adequate records of all assets, liabilities and transactions of the Corporation and shall be responsible for the design, installation and maintenance of accounting and cost systems and procedures throughout the Corporation. He shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chief Financial Officer or the Chief Executive Officer.
     7.18. .
Assistant Controller
     If the Board appoints one or more Assistant Controllers, each Assistant Controller shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all duties of the Controller at the request of or in the absence or disability of the Controller. The performance of any act or the execution of any instrument by an Assistant Controller in any instance in which such performance or execution would customarily have been accomplished by the Controller shall constitute conclusive evidence of the request, absence or disability of the Controller. Each Assistant Controller shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the Controller.
     7.19. .
Duties of Officers May be Delegated
     In case of the absence of any officer of the Corporation, or for any other reason that the Board may deem sufficient, the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer with respect to officers appointed pursuant to Section 7.2, may delegate, for the time being, the powers or duties, or any of them, of such officer to any other officer, or to any director.
     8.1. All checks and other demands for money and notes and other instruments for the payment of money shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers or by such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. The signature of any such officer or other person may be a facsimile if so authorized by the Board of Directors.
     8.2. All contracts, deeds and other instruments to which the seal of the Corporation is affixed shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation by the Chief Executive Officer, by the President, by any Vice President, or by such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate, and shall be attested by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.
     8.3. All other contracts, deeds and instruments shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation by the Chief Executive Officer, by the President, by any Vice President, or by such
 
other person or persons as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time designate.
     8.4. The Chief Executive Officer or any other officer of the Corporation authorized by the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer is authorized to vote, represent and exercise on behalf of the Corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of the Corporation. The authority herein granted may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by the person having such authority.
     9.1. . The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person (a "Covered Person") who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person for whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or, while a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another Corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such Covered Person. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except as otherwise provided in Section 9.3, the Corporation shall be required to indemnify a Covered Person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such Covered Person only if the commencement of such proceeding (or part thereof) by the Covered Person was authorized in the specific case by the Board of Directors. The Corporation may, in its discretion and on terms as the Corporation may determine, indemnify any person who was or is a party to or is threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of the fact that he or she is or was or has agreed to become an employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving or has agreed to serve at the request of the Corporation as an employee or agent of another Corporation, or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such employee or agent.
Right to Indemnification
     9.2. . The Corporation shall to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a Covered Person in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, provided, however, that, to the extent required by law, such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the Covered Person to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the Covered Person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article IX or otherwise. The Corporation may, in its discretion, pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by an employee or agent of the Corporation, such expenses may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Corporation deems appropriate.
Prepayment of Expenses
 
     9.3. . If a claim for indemnification (following the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding) or advancement of expenses under this Article IX is not paid in full within thirty (30) days after a written claim therefor by the Covered Person has been received by the Corporation, the Covered Person may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Covered Person is not entitled to the requested indemnification or advancement of expenses under applicable law.
Claims
     9.4. . The rights conferred on any Covered Person by this Article IX shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such Covered Person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Nonexclusivity of Rights
     9.5. . The Corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any Covered Person who was or is serving at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another Corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity shall be reduced by any amount such Covered Person may collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other Corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or non-profit enterprise.
Other Sources
     9.6. . Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article IX shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any Covered Person in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
Amendment or Repeal
     9.7. . This Article IX shall not limit the right of the Corporation, to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, to indemnify and to advance expenses to persons other than Covered Persons when and as authorized by appropriate corporate action.
Other Indemnification and Prepayment of Expenses
     10.1. .
Certificates of Stock; Uncertificated Shares
     Every holder of stock in the corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate; provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Every holder of shares of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to a certificate, signed by or in the name of the corporation by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or any Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the corporation, certifying the number of shares, and the class and series thereof, owned by him in the Corporation. Any and all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or
 
registrar at the date of issue. The Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall determine the form of stock certificate of the Corporation.
     10.2. .
Transfers of Stock
     Transfer of shares of the capital stock of the corporation shall be made only on the books (whether physically or electronically) of the Corporation by the holder thereof, or by his attorney duly authorized, and on surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment, or authority to transfer (or, with respect to uncertificated shares, by delivery of duly executed instructions or any other manner permitted by applicable law); provided, however, that such succession, assignment, or transfer is not prohibited by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, applicable law, or contract. A person in whose name shares of stock stand on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof as regards the Corporation, and the Corporation shall not, except as expressly required by statute, be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to, or interest in, such shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof.
     10.3.
Transfer Agents and Registrars.
     The Board, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer, as appropriate, may appoint responsible banks or trust companies from time to time to act as transfer agents and registrars of the stock of the Corporation, as may be required by and in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Except as otherwise provided by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer, as appropriate, in respect of temporary certificates, no certificates for shares of capital stock of the Corporation shall be valid unless countersigned by a transfer agent and registered by one of such registrars.
     10.4.
Additional Regulations.
     The Board, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer, as appropriate, may make such additional rules and regulations as they may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of the capital stock of the Corporation.
     10.5.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates.
     The Board, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer may provide for the issuance of new certificates or uncertificated shares of stock to replace certificates of stock lost, stolen or destroyed, or alleged to be lost, stolen or destroyed, upon such terms and in accordance with such procedures as the Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall deem proper and prescribe.
 
     10.6. .
Registered Stockholders
     The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of capital stock as the holder in fact thereof, and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, save as expressly provided by the laws of Delaware.
     11.1.
Checks, Drafts, Etc.; Loans.
     All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation and in such manner as shall, from time to time, be determined by resolution of the Board or the Executive Committee. No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation unless authorized by the Board or the Executive Committee. Such authority may be general or confined to specific circumstances. No loans shall be made by the Corporation to any officer unless specifically approved by the Board, and such loan would not violate any applicable laws.
     11.2.
Deposits.
     All funds of the Corporation shall be deposited, from time to time, to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may select, or as may be selected by such other officer or officers, agent or agents of the Corporation to whom such power may, from time to time, be delegated by the Board; and for the purpose of such deposit, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer, or any other officer or agent to whom such power may be delegated by the Board, may endorse, assign and deliver checks, drafts and other order for the payment of money which are payable to the order of the Corporation.
     11.3. .
Safe Deposit Boxes
     The Corporation may rent such safe deposit boxes, and may deposit therein such securities, documents and articles, as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may designate from time to time. Access to such safe deposit boxes shall be granted only (i) to any two of the following officers of the Corporation attending together: Chief Executive Officer, President, a Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and Controller, or (ii) to any one of the foregoing officers and either an Assistant Secretary or an Assistant Treasurer, attending together.
 
     11.4. .
Custodian Accounts
     Any or all of the securities owned by this Corporation may be deposited with such custodian or custodians as the Board of Directors may designate from time to time. The custodian shall not be authorized to negotiate such securities or to take any other action with respect thereto except upon written directions signed (i) by any two of the following officers of the Corporation: Chief Executive Officer, President, a Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and Controller, or (ii) by any one of the foregoing officers and either an Assistant Secretary or an Assistant Treasurer.
     12.1. .
Date for Determining Stockholders of Record
     In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which record date: (1) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting; and (2) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (2) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
     12.2. .
Dividends
          (A) Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting as provided by the laws of Delaware and the Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
          (B) Before payment of any dividend or making any distribution of profits, there may be set aside out of the surplus or net profits of the Corporation such sum or sums as the directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, deem proper as a reserve fund to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem conducive to the interests of the Corporation.
 
     (C) Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock of the Corporation.
     12.3. .
Seal
     The Corporation may have a corporate seal which shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware." The corporate seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
     12.4. .
Notices
          (A) To Directors. Except as otherwise provided herein or permitted by applicable law, notices to directors may be given by personal delivery, mail, telegram, express courier service (including, without limitation, FedEx or UPS), facsimile transmission (directed to the facsimile transmission number at which the director has consented to receive notice), electronic mail (directed to the electronic mail address at which the director has consented to receive notice), or other form of electronic transmission pursuant to which the director has consented to receive notice
.
          (B) To Stockholders. Notice to stockholders may be given by personal delivery, mail, or, with the consent of the stockholder entitled to receive notice, by facsimile or other means of electronic transmission. If mailed, such notice shall be delivered by postage prepaid envelope directed to each stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears in the records of the Corporation and shall be deemed given when deposited in the United States mail. Notice given by electronic transmission pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed given: (1) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a facsimile telecommunication number at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (2) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive notice; (3) if by posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice; and (4) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder. An affidavit of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or of the transfer agent or other agent of the Corporation that the notice has been given by personal delivery, by mail, or by a form of electronic transmission shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
     12.5. .
Amendments to By-Laws
     Except as otherwise provided by law, these By-Laws or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed (i) at any regular or special meeting of the stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat or (ii) at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors by affirmative vote of a majority of the directors; provided, however, that notice of the proposed alteration or amendment shall have been contained in the notice of the meeting.
 
     12.6. .
Fiscal Year
     The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year.
     12.7. .
Construction of Words
     All references and uses herein of the masculine pronouns "he", "his" or "chairman" shall have equal applicability to and shall also mean their feminine counterpart pronouns, such as "she", "her" or "chairwoman."

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
     The purposes of the Anadarko Petroleum Corporation 2008 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") are to promote the interests of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") and its stockholders by strengthening its ability to attract, retain and motivate salaried employees of the Company and any Subsidiary by furnishing suitable recognition of their ability and experience, to align their interests and efforts to the long-term interests of the Company's stockholders, and to provide them with a direct incentive to achieve the Company's strategic and financial goals. In furtherance of these purposes, the Plan provides for the grant of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Incentive Awards, Cash Awards, and Other Stock-Based Awards to Participants in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth below.
     Unless otherwise required by the context, the following terms when used in the Plan shall have the meanings set forth in this Section 2:
2.1 Award
     Any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Incentive Award, Cash Award or Other Stock-Based Award, in each case payable in cash or in Common Stock as may be designated by the Plan Administrator.
2.2 Award Agreement
     The written agreement setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to an Award granted under the Plan (which, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, need not be countersigned by a Participant). The Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, provide for the use of electronic, internet or other non-paper Award Agreements.
2.3 Beneficiary
     The person or persons designated by the Participant pursuant to Section 6.3(f) or Section 17.7 of this Plan to whom payments are to be paid pursuant to the terms of the Plan in the event of the Participant's death.
 
2.4 Board
     The Board of Directors of the Company.
2.5 Cash Awards
     As defined in Section 12.1.
2.6 Cause
     "Cause" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in any employment or similar agreement between a Participant and an Employer, or, in the absence of such agreement, a termination of a Participant's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries resulting from (a) substandard work performance or repeated unreliability that has not been cured to the Employer's satisfaction; (b) workplace misconduct; (c) excessive absenteeism; (d) violation of safety rules; (e) violation of Employer's policies, including without limitation, the Employer's "Code of Business Conduct and Ethics"; (f) fraud or other dishonesty against the Employer; (g) engagement in conduct that the Participant knows or should know is materially injurious to the business or reputation of the Employer; (h) falsifying Employer or employee records (including an employment application); (i) on-the-job intoxication or being under the influence of alcohol or an illegal narcotic or a drug not being used as prescribed; (j) unauthorized use of Employer equipment or confidential information of an Employer or third party who has entrusted such information to the employer; or (k) conviction of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude. Whether a Participant has been terminated for Cause will be determined by the Employer in the exercise of its discretion.
2.7 Change in Capitalization
     Any increase or reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock, any change (including, without limitation, in the case of a spin-off, dividend or other distribution in respect of shares, a change in value) in the shares of Common Stock or any exchange of shares of Common Stock for a different number or kind of shares of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or another corporation, by reason of a reclassification, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, reorganization, spin-off, split-up, issuance of warrants, rights or debentures, stock dividend, stock split or reverse stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, property dividend, combination or exchange of shares, repurchase of shares, change in corporate structure or otherwise.
2.8 Change of Control
     The occurrence of any of the following after the Effective Date:
(a) any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") acquires beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company (the "Outstanding
 
Company Common Stock") or (B) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , however, that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (1) any acquisition directly from the Company, (2) any acquisition by the Company, (3) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (4) any acquisition pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of Section 2.8(c); or
provided
(b) individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , howeverthat any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board; or
provided
,
(c) consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of Common Stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(d) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to an Award that is (i) subject to Section 409A and (ii) a Change of Control would accelerate the timing of payment thereunder, the term "Change of Control" shall mean a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company as defined in Section 409A and the authoritative guidance issued thereunder, but only to the extent inconsistent with the above definition, and only to the minimum extent necessary to comply with Section 409A as determined by the Committee.
2.9 Code
     The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and in effect from time to time, and the temporary or final regulations of the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury adopted pursuant to the Code.
2.10 Common Stock
     The Common Stock of the Company, $0.10 par value per share, or such other class of shares or other securities as may be applicable pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.
2.11 Company
     As defined in Section 1.
2.12 Covered Employee
     With respect to any grant of an Award, a Participant who the Plan Administrator deems is or may be or become a "covered employee" as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code for any year.
2.13 Effective Date
     The effective date of the Plan is May 20, 2008, the date on which it was approved by the stockholders of the Company.
2.14 Employer
     As to any Participant on any date, the Company or a Subsidiary that employs the Participant on such date.
2.15 Exchange Act
     The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and rules promulgated thereunder.
 
2.16 Fair Market Value
     As of any given date, the closing sales price at which Common Stock is sold on such date as reported in the NYSE-Composite Transactions by or any other comparable service the Plan Administrator may determine is reliable for such date, or if no Common Stock was traded on such date, on the next preceding day on which Common Stock was so traded. If the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock cannot be determined pursuant to the preceding provisions, the "Fair Market Value" of the Common Stock shall be determined by the Plan Administrator in such a manner as it deems appropriate, consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.
The Wall Street Journal
2.17 Full Value Award
     An Award other than of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, which is settled by the issuance of Common Stock
.
2.18 Incentive Award
     A percentage of base salary, a fixed dollar amount or other measure of compensation which Participants are eligible to receive, in cash and/or other Awards under the Plan, at the end of a Performance Period if certain performance measures are achieved.
2.19 Incentive Stock Option
     An option intended to meet the requirements of a "qualified stock option" as defined in Section 422 of the Code, as in effect at the time of grant of such Option, or any statutory provision that may hereafter replace such section.
2.20 Management Committee
     A committee designated by the Board (either by resolution or by provisions contained in this Plan) and consisting of the Chief Executive Officer, provided that such officer is a member of the Board, and such other members of the Board as the Board may determine from time to time.
2.21 Maximum Annual Employee Grant
     The Maximum Annual Employee Grant set forth in Section 5.2.
2.22 Nonqualified Option
     An Option which is not intended to meet the requirements of a "qualified stock option" as defined in Section 422 of the Code.
 
2.23 Option
     An Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Option.
2.24 Option Price
     The price per share of Common Stock at which an Option is exercisable.
2.25. Other Stock-Based Award
     As defined in Section 12.2.
2.26 Participant
     An eligible employee of an Employer to whom Awards are granted under the Plan as set forth in Section 4.
2.27 Performance Goals
     The Plan Administrator may grant Awards subject to one or more Performance Goals set forth in the table below (collectively the "Performance Goals") to any Participant, including, without limitation, to any Covered Employee. As to any such Awards, the Plan Administrator shall establish one or more of the Performance Goals for each Performance Period in writing. Each Performance Goal selected for a particular Performance Period shall include any one or more of the following, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a Subsidiary or a business unit of the Company or any Subsidiary, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of time, on an absolute basis or relative to the pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Plan Administrator:
 
     The Plan Administrator may adjust the Performance Goals to include or exclude extraordinary charges, gains or losses on the disposition of business units, losses from discontinued operations, restatements and accounting changes and other unplanned special charges such as restructuring expenses, acquisitions, acquisition expenses, including expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, stock offerings, stock repurchases and loan loss provisions. The Plan Administrator may also provide for the manner in which performance will be measured against the Performance Goals (or may adjust the Performance Goals) to reflect the impact of specified corporate transactions, a Change in Capitalization, special charges, accounting policy changes and tax law changes. In addition, the Plan Administrator may make such adjustments to the Performance Goals applicable to Participants who are not Covered Employees as it determines are appropriate. Such adjustments may occur at the time of the granting of an Award, or at any time thereafter, but, in the case of Covered Employees, only to the extent permitted by Section 162(m). Performance Goals may include a threshold level of performance below which no Awards shall be earned, target levels of performance at which specific Awards will be earned, and a maximum level of performance at which the maximum level of Awards will be earned.
     In establishing Performance Goals with respect to Covered Employees, the Plan Administrator shall ensure such Performance Goals (i) are established no later than the end of the first 90 days of the Performance Period (or such other time permitted by the Internal Revenue Service), and (ii) satisfy all other applicable requirements imposed by Section 162(m), including the requirement that such Performance Goals be stated in terms of an objective formula or standard, and the Plan Administrator may not in any event increase the amount of compensation payable to a Covered Employee upon the satisfaction of any Performance Goal. Prior to the payment of any "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m), the Plan Administrator shall certify in writing the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals were, in fact, achieved and the amounts to be paid, vested or delivered as a result thereof; , that the Plan Administrator may reduce, but not increase, such amount.
provided
2.28 Performance Period
     That period of time during which Performance Goals are evaluated to determine the vesting or granting of Awards under the Plan, as the Plan Administrator may determine.
 
2.29 Performance Shares
     An Award granted under the Plan representing the right to receive a number of shares of Common Stock for each Performance Share granted, as the Plan Administrator may determine.
2.30 Performance Units
     An Award granted under the Plan representing the right to receive a payment (either in cash or Common Stock) equal to the value of a Performance Unit, as the Plan Administrator may determine.
2.31 Permitted Transferee
     As defined in Section 6.3(f).
2.32 Plan
     As defined in Section 1.
2.33 Plan Administrator
     Those committees appointed and authorized pursuant to Section 3 to administer the Plan.
2.34 Prior Plans
     The Anadarko Petroleum Corporation 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and the Anadarko Petroleum Corporation Annual Incentive Plan, as amended.
2.35 Restricted Stock
     Common Stock granted under the Plan that is subject to the requirements of Section 9 and such other restrictions as the Plan Administrator deems appropriate. References to Restricted Stock in this Plan shall include Restricted Stock awarded in conjunction with Incentive Awards pursuant to Section 11, unless the context otherwise requires.
2.36 Restricted Stock Units
     An Award granted under the Plan representing a right to receive a payment (either in cash or Common Stock) equal to the value of a share of Common Stock.
2.37 Restriction Period
     As defined in Sections 9.2 and 10.2.
2.38 Rule 16b-3
     Rule 16b-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.
 
2.39 Section 16 Insider
     Any person who is selected by the Plan Administrator to receive an Award pursuant to the Plan and who is or may be or become subject to the requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
2.40 Section 162(m)
     Section 162(m) of the Code, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
2.41 Section 409A
     Section 409A of the Code, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
2.42 Specified Employee
     As defined in Section 18.2.
2.43 Stock Appreciation Right
     Any right granted under Section 7.
2.44 Subsidiary
     An entity that is designated by the Plan Administrator as a subsidiary for purposes of the Plan and that is a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, or other entity in which the Company owns directly or indirectly, fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting power or profit interests, or as to which the Company or one of its affiliates serves as general or managing partner or in a similar capacity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of Options intended to qualify as Incentive Stock Options, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean a corporation (or other entity treated as a corporation for tax purposes) in which the Company directly or indirectly holds more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting power.
3.1 Plan Administrator
     (a) The Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors shall be the Plan Administrator with respect to all Covered Employees and all Section 16 Insiders. As to these officers, the Plan Administrator shall be constituted at all times so as to (i) be "independent" as such term is defined pursuant to the rules of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may then be listed, and (ii) meet the non-employee director standards of Rule 16b-3 and the outside director requirements of Section 162(m), so long as any of the
 
Company's equity securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act.
     (b) Other than as set forth in Section 3.1(a) and subject to Section 3.4 (and subject to applicable law), the Management Committee shall be the Plan Administrator. The Board may from time to time remove members from, or add members to, the Management Committee.
     (c) Notwithstanding Sections 3.1(a) and 3.1(b), the Board of Directors may designate itself or the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors as the Plan Administrator as to any Participant or groups of Participants.
     (d) The above committees may rely on officers, employees or other agents of the Company to handle the day-to-day administrative matters of the Plan.
3.2 Authority of Plan Administrator
     Subject to the express terms and conditions set forth herein, the Plan Administrator shall have the power from time to time to:
     (a) determine those individuals to whom Awards shall be granted under the Plan and the number of shares or amount of cash subject to such Awards and prescribe the terms and conditions (which need not be identical) of each such Awards, including, in the case of stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, the Option Price, vesting schedule and duration;
     (b) set the terms and conditions of any Award consistent with the terms of the Plan (which may be based on Performance Goals or other performance measures as the Plan Administrator shall determine), and make any amendments, modifications or adjustments to such Awards as are permitted by the Plan;
     (c) construe and interpret the Plan and the Awards granted hereunder and establish, amend and revoke rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, correcting any defect or supplying any omission, or reconciling any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award Agreement, in the manner and to the extent it shall deem necessary or advisable, including so that the Plan and the operation of the Plan comply with Rule 16b-3, the Code to the extent applicable and other applicable law, and otherwise to make the Plan fully effective;
     (d) exercise its discretion with respect to the powers and rights granted to it as set forth in the Plan; and
     (e) generally, exercise such powers and perform such acts as are deemed necessary or advisable to promote the best interests of the Company with respect to the Plan.
 
     All decisions and determinations by the Plan Administrator in the exercise of the above powers shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the Company, a Subsidiary, the Participants and all other persons having or claiming any interest therein. The Plan Administrator shall cause the Company at the Company's expense to take any action related to the Plan which may be necessary to comply with the provisions of any federal, state or foreign law or any regulations issued thereunder, which the Plan Administrator determines are intended to be complied with.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Plan Administrator shall not be entitled to exercise any discretion otherwise authorized hereunder with respect to any Awards held by Covered Employees if the ability to exercise such discretion or the exercise of such discretion itself would cause the compensation attributable to such Awards to fail to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m).
3.3 Indemnification of Plan Administrator
     Each member of any committee acting as Plan Administrator, while serving as such, shall be entitled, in good faith, to rely or act upon any advice of the Company's independent auditors, counsel or consultants hired by the committee, or other agents assisting in the administration of the Plan. The Plan Administrator and any officers or employees of the Company acting at the direction or on behalf of the Company shall not be personally liable for any action or determination taken or made, or not taken or made, in good faith with respect to the Plan, and shall, to the extent permitted by law, be fully indemnified and protected under the Company's charter or by-laws with respect to any such action or determination.
3.4 Delegation to Management Committee
     To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, the Board of Directors and the Compensation and Benefits Committee hereby delegates to the Management Committee the authority (i) to designate the officers and employees who shall be Participants, (ii) to determine the Awards to be granted to any such Participants or (iii) both (i) and (ii); , , that the Management Committee shall not have the authority to grant Awards to any member of the Management Committee and shall be subject to such other limitations set forth in this Plan. This provision shall be deemed to constitute a delegation from the Board to the Management Committee without further action by the Board. However, the Board or the Compensation and Benefits Committee shall, from time to time, limit the total number of shares Common Stock subject to such delegation.
provided
however
     To be eligible for selection by the Plan Administrator to participate in the Plan, an individual must be an employee (other than an employee who is a member of a unit covered by a collective bargaining agreement) of an Employer, as of the date on which the Plan Administrator grants to such individual an Award under the Plan or any other employee who, in the judgment of the Plan Administrator, holds a position of responsibility and is able to contribute substantially
 
to the Company's continued success. Members of the Board of Directors who are full-time employees shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. Members of the Board of Directors who are not employees are not eligible to participate in the Plan. Each grant of an Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement.
5.1 Aggregate Shares
     (a) 
Share Authorization
     Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.3, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for grant to Participants under this Plan on or after the Effective Date shall be 33,000,000 shares of Common Stock, which shall consist of (i) a number of shares of Common Stock not previously authorized for issuance under any plan, plus (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock remaining available for issuance under the Prior Plans but not subject to outstanding awards as of the Effective Date, plus (iii) the number of shares of Common Stock subject to awards outstanding under the Prior Plans as of the Effective Date, but only to the extent such outstanding awards are forfeited, expire, or otherwise terminate without issuance of such shares of Common Stock.
     (b) 
Limit on Full Value Awards  Flexible Share Pool
     To the extent that a share of Common Stock is issued pursuant to the grant or exercise of a Full Value Award, it shall reduce the share authorization by 2.27 shares of Common Stock; and to the extent that a share of Common Stock is issued pursuant to the grant or exercise of an Award other than a Full Value Award, it shall reduce the share authorization by one (1) share of Common Stock.
     (c) 
Share Usage
     Shares of Common Stock covered by an Award shall only be counted as used to the extent they are actually issued. Any shares of Common Stock related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such shares of Common Stock, are settled in cash in lieu of shares of Common Stock, or are exchanged with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of shares of Common Stock, for Awards not involving shares of Common Stock, shall be available again for grant under this Plan. However, the full number of Stock Appreciation Rights granted that are to be settled by the issuance of shares of Common Stock shall be counted against the number of shares of Common Stock available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of shares of Common Stock actually issued upon settlement of such Stock Appreciation Rights. Furthermore, any shares of Common Stock withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations on an Award issued under the Plan, shares of Common Stock tendered to pay the exercise price of an Award under the Plan, and shares of Common Stock repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise will no
 
longer be eligible to be again available for grant under this Plan. The shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan may be authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock or treasury shares of Common Stock.
5.2 Limitations
     Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.3, the following limitations shall apply:
     (a) Options: The maximum aggregate number of shares subject to Options granted in any one calendar year to any one Participant shall be 2,500,000.
     (b) Stock Appreciation Rights: The maximum number of shares subject to Stock Appreciation Rights granted in any one calendar year to any one Participant shall be 2,500,000.
     (c) Performance Shares or Performance Units: The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Performance Shares or Performance Units that a Participant may receive in any one calendar year shall be 1,500,000 shares, or equal to the value of 1,500,000 shares, determined as of the date of vesting or payout, as applicable.
     (d) Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units: The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units in any one calendar year to any one Participant shall be 1,500,000 shares, or equal to the value of 1,500,000 shares, determined as of the date of vesting or payout, as applicable.
     (e) Incentive Awards: The maximum aggregate amount awarded or credited in any one calendar year with respect to an Incentive Award shall be $10,000,000.
     (f) Cash Awards: The maximum aggregate amount awarded to or credited with respect to Cash Awards to any one Participant in any one calendar year may not exceed the greater of $10,000,000 dollars or the value of 1,500,000 shares, determined as of the date of vesting or payout, as applicable.
     (g) Other Stock-Based Awards: The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Other Stock-Based Awards in any one calendar year to any one Participant shall be 1,500,000 shares.
 
5.3 Adjustments in Authorized Shares
     (a) In the event of a Change in Capitalization, the Plan Administrator shall make such adjustments, if any, as it determines are appropriate and equitable to (a) the maximum number and class of shares of Common Stock or other stock or securities with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan, (b) the maximum number and class of shares of Common Stock or other stock or securities that may be issued upon exercise of Nonqualified Options and Incentive Stock Options, (c) the Maximum Annual Employee Grants, (d) the number and class of shares of Common Stock or other stock or securities which are subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan and the Option Price or exercise price therefore, if applicable and (e) the Performance Goals; provided, however, that in the case of an "equity restructuring" (within the meaning of the Financial Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), the Board shall make an equitable or appropriate adjustment to outstanding Awards to reflect such equity restructuring. Any such adjustment shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons claiming any right or interest under the Plan.
     (b) Any such adjustment in the shares of Common Stock or other stock or securities (x) subject to outstanding Incentive Stock Options (including any adjustments in the exercise price) shall be made in such manner as not to constitute a modification as defined by Section 424(h)(3) of the Code and only to the extent otherwise permitted by Sections 422 and 424 of the Code or (y) subject to outstanding Awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) shall be made in such a manner as not to adversely affect the treatment of the Awards as performance-based compensation.
     (c) If, by reason of a Change in Capitalization, a Participant shall be entitled to, or shall be entitled to exercise an Option or Stock Appreciation Right with respect to, new, additional or different shares of stock or securities of the Company or any other corporation, such new, additional or different shares shall thereupon be subject to all of the conditions, restrictions and performance criteria which were applicable to the shares of Common Stock that such shares replaced or to the Option or Stock Appreciation Right, as the case may be, prior to such Change in Capitalization.
     (d) No adjustments made under this Section 5 shall be made if such adjustment would result in adverse taxation to a Participant under Section 409A.
5.4 Effect of Certain Transactions
     Following (a) the liquidation or dissolution of the Company or (b) a merger or consolidation of the Company (a "Transaction"), (i) each outstanding Award shall be treated as provided for in the agreement entered into in connection with the Transaction (which treatment may be different as among different types of Awards and different holders thereof) or (ii) if not so provided in such agreement, each Participant shall be entitled to receive in respect of each share of Common Stock subject to any outstanding Awards, upon exercise of any Option or Stock Appreciation Right or payment or transfer in respect of any other Award, the same number and kind of stock, securities, cash, property or other consideration that each holder of a share of Common Stock was entitled to receive in the Transaction in respect of a share of Common
 
Stock; provided, however, that such stock, securities, cash, property, or other consideration shall remain subject to all of the conditions, restrictions and performance criteria which were applicable to Awards prior to such Transaction, but giving effect to any applicable provision of this Plan or any Award Agreement if the Transaction is a Change of Control. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the treatment of outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights pursuant to clause (i) of this Section 5.4 in connection with a Transaction in which the consideration paid or distributed to the Company's stockholders is not entirely shares of common stock of the acquiring or resulting corporation may include the cancellation of outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights upon consummation of the Transaction provided either (x) the holders of affected Options and Stock Appreciation rights have been given a period of at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the consummation of the Transaction to exercise the Options and Stock Appreciation Rights (whether or not they were otherwise exercisable) or (y) the holders of the affected Options and Stock Appreciation Rights are paid (in cash or cash equivalents) in respect of each share of Common Stock covered by the Options or Stock Appreciation Rights being cancelled an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the per share price paid or distributed to stockholders in the Transaction (the value of any non-cash consideration to be determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion) over the exercise price thereof. For avoidance of doubt, (1) the cancellation of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights pursuant to clause (y) of the preceding sentence may be effected notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Plan or any Award Agreement and (2) if the amount determined pursuant to clause (y) of the preceding sentence is zero or less, the affected Options and Stock Appreciation Rights may be cancelled without any payment therefore. The treatment of any Award as provided in this Section 5.4 shall be conclusively presumed to be appropriate for purposes of Section 5.3.
6.1 Grant of Options
     Options may be granted to eligible employees in such number, and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Plan Administrator shall determine, the Plan Administrator taking into account the duties of the respective employees, their present and potential contributions to the success of the Company or its Subsidiaries, and such other factors as the Plan Administrator shall deem relevant in accomplishing the purposes of the Plan. The Plan Administrator may grant an Option or provide for the grant of an Option, either from time to time in the discretion of the Plan Administrator or automatically upon the occurrence of specified events, including, without limitation, the achievement of Performance Goals or other performance measures, the satisfaction of an event or condition within the control of the recipient of the Option or within the control of others. The granting of an Option shall take place when the Plan Administrator by resolution, written consent or other appropriate action determines to grant such an Option to a particular Participant at the Option Price.
 
6.2 Special Provisions Applicable to Incentive Stock Options
     Each provision of the Plan and each Incentive Stock Option granted thereunder shall be construed so that each such Option shall qualify as an Incentive Stock Option, and any provision thereof that cannot be so construed shall be disregarded, unless the Participant agrees otherwise. Incentive Stock Options, in addition to complying with the other provisions of the Plan relating to Options generally, shall be subject to the following conditions:
(a)
Ten Percent (10%) Stockholders
     A Participant must not, immediately before an Incentive Stock Option is granted to him or her, own stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or of a Subsidiary. This requirement is waived if (i) the Option Price of the Incentive Stock Option to be granted is at least one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of the stock subject to the Option, determined at the time the Option is granted, and (ii) the Option is not exercisable more than five (5) years from the date the Option is granted.
(b)
Annual Limitation
     To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the time of the grant of the option) of the stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by the Participant during any calendar year exceeds One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), such Options shall be treated as Nonqualified Options. In applying the limitation in the preceding sentence in the case of multiple Option grants, unless otherwise required by applicable law, Options which were intended to be Incentive Stock Options shall be treated as Nonqualified Options according to the order in which they were granted such that the most recently granted Options are first treated as Nonqualified Options.
(c)
Additional Terms
     Any other terms and conditions which the Plan Administrator determines, upon advice of counsel, must be imposed for the Option to be an Incentive Stock Option.
(d)
Notice of Disqualifying Disposition
     If a Participant shall make any disposition of shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to an Incentive Stock Option under the circumstances described in Section 421(b) of the Code (relating to disqualifying distributions), the Participant shall notify the Company of such disposition within twenty (20) days thereof.
 
6.3 Terms of Options
     Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.2, all Incentive Stock Options and Nonqualified Options under the Plan shall be granted subject to the following terms and conditions:
(a)
Option Price
     The Option Price shall be determined by the Plan Administrator in any reasonable manner, but shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date the Option is granted, except in the case of Options that are granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by (i) a company acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary, or (ii) a company with which the Company or a Subsidiary combines.
(b)
Duration of Options
     Options shall be exercisable at such time and under such conditions as set forth in the Award Agreement, but in no event shall any stock option (whether a Nonqualified Option or an Incentive Stock Option) be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date of its grant.
(c)
Exercise of Options
     Common Stock covered by an Option may be purchased at one time or in such installments over the option period as may be provided in the Award Agreement. Any Common Stock not purchased on an applicable installment date may be purchased thereafter at any time prior to the expiration of the Option in accordance with its terms. To the extent that the right to purchase Common Stock has accrued thereunder, an Option may be exercised from time to time by written notice to the Company setting forth the amount of Common Stock with respect to which the Option is being exercised.
(d)
Payment
     The purchase price of Common Stock purchased under Options shall be paid in full to the Company upon the exercise of the Option by delivery of consideration equal to the product of the Option Price and the Common Stock purchased (the "Purchase Price"). Such consideration may be either (i) in cash or (ii) at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, in Common Stock (by either actual delivery of Common Stock or by attestation presenting satisfactory proof of beneficial ownership of such Common Stock) already owned by the Participant, or any combination of cash and Common Stock. The Fair Market Value of such Common Stock as delivered shall be valued as of the day of exercise. The Plan Administrator can determine that additional forms of payment will be permitted. To the extent permitted by the Plan Administrator and applicable laws and regulations (including, without limitation, federal tax and securities laws, regulations and state corporate law), an Option may also be exercised in a "cashless" exercise by delivery
 
of a properly executed exercise notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker approved by the Company to promptly deliver to the Company sufficient proceeds to pay the Purchase Price. A Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder until the Common Stock is issued to the Participant.
     The Plan Administrator may permit a Participant to pay all or a portion of the Purchase Price by having Common Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to all or a portion of the Purchase Price be withheld from the shares issuable to the Participant upon the exercise of the Option. The Fair Market Value of such Common Stock as is withheld shall be determined as of the same day as the exercise of the Option.
(e)
Restrictions
     The Plan Administrator shall determine and reflect in the Award Agreement, with respect to each Option, the nature and extent of the restrictions, if any, to be imposed on the Common Stock which may be purchased thereunder, including, without limitation, restrictions on the transferability of such Common Stock acquired through the exercise of such Options for such periods as the Plan Administrator may determine and, further, that in the event a Participant's employment by the Company, or a Subsidiary, terminates during the period in which such Common Stock is nontransferable, the Participant shall be required to sell such Common Stock back to the Company at such prices as the Plan Administrator may specify. In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable laws and regulations, the Plan Administrator may require that a Participant who wants to effectuate a "cashless" exercise of Options be required to sell the Common Stock acquired in the associated exercise to the Company, or in the open market through the use of a broker selected by the Company, at such price and on such terms as the Plan Administrator may determine at the time of grant, or otherwise. Without limiting the foregoing, the Plan Administrator may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Common Stock issued as a result of the exercise of an Option, including without limitation (i) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (ii) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by one or more Participants and (iii) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.
(f)
Transferability of Options
     Notwithstanding Section 17.1 and only as provided by the Plan Administrator, Nonqualified Options may be transferred to a Participant's immediate family members, directly or indirectly or by means of a trust, corporate entity or partnership (a person who thus acquires this option by such transfer, a "Permitted Transferee"). A transfer of a Nonqualified Option may only be effected by the Company at the request of the Participant and shall become effective upon the Permitted Transferee agreeing to such terms as the Plan Administrator may require and only when recorded in the Company's record of outstanding Options. In the event an Option is transferred as contemplated hereby, the Option may not be subsequently transferred by the Permitted Transferee
 
except a transfer back to the Participant or by will or the laws of descent and distribution. A transferred Option may be exercised by a Permitted Transferee to the same extent as, and subject to the same terms and conditions as, the Participant (except as otherwise provided herein), as if no transfer had taken place. As used herein, "immediate family member" shall mean, with respect to any person, such person's child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, and shall include adoptive relationships. In the event of exercise of a transferred Option by a Permitted Transferee, any amounts due to (or to be withheld by) the Company upon exercise of the Option shall be delivered by (or withheld from amounts due to) the Participant, the Participant's estate or the Permitted Transferee, in the reasonable discretion of the Company.
     In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and Rule 16b-3, the Plan Administrator may permit a recipient of a Nonqualified Option to designate in writing during the Participant's lifetime a Beneficiary to receive and exercise the Participant's Nonqualified Options in the event of such Participant's death.
(g)
Purchase for Investment
     The Plan Administrator shall have the right to require that each Participant or other person who shall exercise an Option under the Plan, and each person into whose name the Common Stock shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option, represent and agree that any and all Common Stock purchased pursuant to such Option is being purchased for investment only and not with a view to the distribution or resale thereof and that such Common Stock will not be sold except in accordance with such restrictions or limitations as may be set forth in the Option or by the Plan Administrator. This Section 6.3(g) shall be inoperative during any period of time when the Company has obtained all necessary or advisable approvals from governmental agencies and has completed all necessary or advisable registrations or other qualifications of the Common Stock as to which Options may from time to time be granted as contemplated in Section 16.
(h)
No Repricing
     Except in connection with a Change in Capitalization or approval of the Company's stockholders, the Option Price shall not be reduced to less than the Fair Market Value on the date such Stock Options were granted.
7.1 Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights
     Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to eligible employees in such number, and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Plan Administrator shall determine, the Plan
 
Administrator taking into account the duties of the respective employees, their present and potential contributions to the success of the Company or a Subsidiary, and such other factors as the Plan Administrator shall deem relevant in accomplishing the purposes of the Plan. The Plan Administrator may grant a Stock Appreciation Right or provide for the grant of a Stock Appreciation Right, either from time to time in the discretion of the Plan Administrator or automatically upon the occurrence of specified events, including, without limitation, the achievement of Performance Goals or other performance measures, the satisfaction of an event or condition within the control of the recipient of the Stock Appreciation Right or within the control of others. The granting of a Stock Appreciation Right shall take place when the Plan Administrator by resolution, written consent or other appropriate action determines to grant such a Stock Appreciation Right to a particular Participant at a particular price. A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted freestanding or in tandem or in combination with any other Award under the Plan.
7.2 Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights
     A Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised upon such terms and conditions and for such term as the Plan Administrator shall determine; , , no Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date of its grant. Upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, a Participant shall be entitled to receive Common Stock with an aggregate Fair Market Value determined by multiplying (i) the difference between the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right over the price determined by the Plan Administrator on the date of grant (which price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant, except in the case of Stock Appreciation Rights that are granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by (x) a company acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary, or (y) a company with which the Company or a Subsidiary combines) times (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised. The value of any fractional shares shall be paid in cash.
provided
however
7.3 Special Provisions Applicable to Stock Appreciation Rights
Stock Appreciation Rights are subject to the following restrictions:
(a) A Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with any other Award under the Plan shall be exercisable at such time or times as the Award to which it relates shall be exercisable, or at such other times as the Plan Administrator may determine.
(b) The right of a Participant to exercise a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with any other Award under the Plan shall be canceled if and to the extent the related Award is exercised or canceled. To the extent that a Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, the related Award shall be deemed to have been surrendered unexercised and canceled.
 
(c) A holder of Stock Appreciation Rights shall have none of the rights of a stockholder until the Common Stock, if any, is issued to such holder pursuant to such holder's exercise of such rights.
(d) The acquisition of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be subject to the same restrictions as would apply to the acquisition of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of an Option, as set forth in Section 6.3.
7.4 No Repricing
     Except in connection with a Change in Capitalization or approval of the Company's stockholders, the price at which Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised shall not be reduced to less than the Fair Market Value on the date such Stock Appreciation Rights were granted.
8.1 Grant of Performance Shares and Performance Units
     Subject to the limitations in Section 5.2, Performance Shares or Performance Units may be granted to eligible employees at any time and from time to time as the Plan Administrator shall determine. The Plan Administrator shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units granted to each Participant and the terms and conditions thereof, taking into account the duties of the respective Participants, their present and potential contributions to the success of the Company or a Subsidiary, and such other factors as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate. Performance Shares and Performance Units may be granted alone or in combination with any other Award under the Plan.
8.2 Value of Performance Shares and Performance Units
     The Plan Administrator shall establish Performance Goals for any specified Performance Periods. Prior to each grant of Performance Shares or Performance Units, the Plan Administrator shall establish an initial amount of Common Stock for each Performance Share and an initial value for each Performance Unit granted to each Participant for that Performance Period. Prior to each grant of Performance Shares or Performance Units, the Plan Administrator also shall set the Performance Goals that will be used to determine the extent to which the Participant receives Common Stock for the Performance Shares or payment of the value of the Performance Units awarded for such Performance Period. With respect to each such Performance Goal utilized during a Performance Period, the Plan Administrator may assign percentages or other relative values to various levels of performance which shall be applied to determine the extent to which the Participant shall receive a payout of the number of Performance Shares or value of Performance Units awarded.
 
8.3 Payment of Performance Shares and Performance Units
     After a Performance Period has ended, the holder of a Performance Share or Performance Unit shall be entitled to receive the value thereof as determined by the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator shall make this determination by first determining the extent to which the Performance Goals set pursuant to Section 8.2 have been met. The Plan Administrator shall then determine the applicable percentage or other relative value to be applied to, and will apply such percentage or other relative value to, the number of Performance Shares or value of Performance Units to determine the payout to be received by the Participant. In addition, with respect to Performance Shares and Performance Units granted to each Participant, no payout shall be made hereunder except upon written certification by the Plan Administrator that the applicable Performance Goals have been satisfied to a particular extent.
8.4 Form and Timing of Payment
     The payment described in Section 8.3 shall be made in Common Stock, or in cash, or partly in Common Stock and partly in cash, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator and set forth in the Award Agreement. The value of any fractional shares shall be paid in cash. Payment shall be made in a lump sum or installments as prescribed by the Plan Administrator or the Award Agreement, as applicable, and consistent with Section 409A. If Common Stock is to be converted into an amount of cash on any date, or if an amount of cash is to be converted into Common Stock on any date, such conversion shall be done at the then-current Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on such date.
9.1 Grant of Restricted Stock
     Subject to the limitations in Section 5.2, Restricted Stock may be granted to eligible employees in such number and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Plan Administrator shall determine, the Plan Administrator taking into account the duties of the respective Participants, their present and potential contributions to the success of the Company or a Subsidiary, and such other factors as the Plan Administrator shall deem relevant in accomplishing the purposes of the Plan. The Plan Administrator may grant Restricted Stock or provide for the grant of Restricted Stock, either from time to time in the discretion of the Plan Administrator or automatically upon the occurrence of specified events.
 
9.2 Restriction Period
     Except as permitted by the Plan Administrator and specified in the Award Agreement, during a period following the date of grant, as determined by the Plan Administrator, which in no event shall be less than three (3) years with respect to Restricted Stock subject to restrictions based upon time and one (1) year with respect to Restricted Stock subject to restrictions based upon the achievement of specific Performance Goals or other performance measures (the "Restriction Period") the Restricted Stock shall be subject to Section 17.1. During the Restriction Period, the Plan Administrator shall evidence the restrictions on the shares of Restricted Stock in such a manner as it determines is appropriate (including, without limitation, (i) by means of appropriate legends on shares of Restricted Stock that have been certificated and (ii) by means of appropriate stop-transfer orders on shares of Restricted Stock credited to book-entry accounts).
9.3 Other Restrictions
     The Plan Administrator shall impose such other restrictions on Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable, including Performance Goals or other performance measures. The Plan Administrator may require, under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate or desirable, that the certificates for Restricted Stock delivered under the Plan may be held in custody by a bank or other institution, or that the Company may itself hold such shares in custody until the Restriction Period expires or until restrictions thereon otherwise lapse, and may require, as a condition of any issuance of Restricted Stock that the Participant shall have delivered a stock power endorsed in blank relating to the shares of Restricted Stock.
9.4 Voting Rights; Dividends and Other Distributions
     A Participant receiving a grant of Restricted Stock shall be recorded as a stockholder of the Company. Each Participant who receives a grant of Restricted Stock shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to such shares (except as provided in the restrictions on transferability), including the right to vote the shares and receive dividends and other distributions paid with respect to the underlying shares of Restricted Stock.
9.5 Issuance of Shares; Settlement of Awards
     When the restrictions imposed by Section 9.2 expire or otherwise lapse with respect to one or more shares of Restricted Stock, the Participant shall be obligated to return to the Company any certificate(s) representing shares of Restricted Stock (if applicable), and the Company shall deliver to the Participant one (1) share of Common Stock (which may be delivered in book-entry or certificated form) in satisfaction of each share of Restricted Stock, which shares so delivered shall not contain any legend. The delivery of shares pursuant to this Section 9.5 shall be subject to any required share withholding to satisfy tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 17.9. Any fractional shares subject to such Restricted Stock shall be paid to the Participant in cash.
 
10.1 Grant of Restricted Stock Units
     Subject to the limitations in Section 5.2, Restricted Stock Units may be granted to eligible employees in such number and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Plan Administrator shall determine, the Plan Administrator taking into account the duties of the respective Participants, their present and potential contributions to the success of the Company or a Subsidiary, and such other factors as the Plan Administrator shall deem relevant in accomplishing the purposes of the Plan. The Plan Administrator may grant Restricted Stock Units or provide for the grant of Restricted Stock Units, either from time to time in the discretion of the Plan Administrator or automatically upon the occurrence of specified events.
10.2 Restriction Period
     Except as permitted by the Plan Administrator and specified in the Award Agreement, during a period following the date of grant, as determined by the Plan Administrator, which in no event shall be less than three (3) years with respect to Restricted Stock Units subject to restrictions based upon time and one (1) year with respect to Restricted Stock Units subject to restrictions based upon the achievement of specific Performance Goals or other performance measures (the "Restriction Period") the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to Section 17.1.
10.3 Other Restrictions
     The Plan Administrator shall impose such other restrictions on Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable, including the requirement that certain pre-established Performance Goals be met. A Participant receiving a grant of Restricted Stock Units shall not be recorded as a stockholder of the Company and shall not acquire any rights of a stockholder unless or until the Participant is issued shares of Common Stock in settlement of such Restricted Stock Units.
10.4 Dividend Equivalents
     The Plan Administrator may provide that Restricted Stock Units awarded under the Plan shall be entitled to an amount per Restricted Stock Unit equal in value to the cash dividend, if any, paid per share of Common Stock on issued and outstanding shares, on the dividend payment dates occurring during the period between the date on which the Restricted Stock Units are granted to the Participant and the date on which such Restricted Stock Units are settled, cancelled, forfeited, waived, surrendered or terminated under the Plan. Such paid amounts called "dividend equivalents" shall be (i) paid in cash or Common Stock or (ii) credited to the Participant as additional Restricted Stock Units, or any combination thereof, as the Plan Administrator shall determine. A Restricted Stock Unit credited to a Participant as a dividend equivalent shall vest and be settled at such time as the Restricted Stock Unit to which it relates vests and is settled. In the event the dividend equivalents are deferred, they shall be payable in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A.
 
10.5 Issuance of Shares; Settlement of Awards
     When the restrictions imposed by Section 10.2 expire or otherwise lapse with respect to one or more Restricted Stock Units, Restricted Stock Units shall be settled (i) in cash or (ii) by the delivery to the Participant of the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of the Participant's Restricted Stock Units that are vested (less any units or value withheld to satisfy applicable tax withholding obligations), or any combination thereof, as the Plan Administrator shall determine and in accordance with Section 409A. The delivery of shares pursuant to this Section 10.5 shall be subject to any required share withholding to satisfy tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 17.9. Any fractional shares subject to such Restricted Stock Units shall be paid to the Participant in cash.
11.1 Incentive Awards
     Prior to the beginning of each Performance Period, or not later than ninety (90) days following the commencement of the relevant fiscal year, the Plan Administrator shall establish Performance Goals or other performance measures which must be achieved for any Participant to receive an Incentive Award for that Performance Period. The Performance Goals or other performance measures may be based on any combination of corporate and business unit Performance Goals or other performance measures. The Plan Administrator may also establish one or more Company-wide Performance Goals or other performance measures which must be achieved for any Participant to receive an Incentive Award for that Performance Period. Such Performance Goals or other performance measures may include a threshold level of performance below which no Incentive Award shall be earned, target levels of performance at which specific Incentive Awards will be earned, and a maximum level of performance at which the maximum level of Incentive Awards will be earned. Each Incentive Award shall specify the amount of cash and the amount of any other Awards subject to such Incentive Award.
11.2 Performance Goal Certification
     An Incentive Award shall become payable to the extent provided herein in the event that the Plan Administrator certifies in writing prior to payment of the Incentive Award that the Performance Goals or other performance measures selected for a particular Performance Period have been attained. In no event will an Incentive Award be payable under this Plan if the threshold level of performance set for each Performance Goal or other performance measure for the applicable Performance Period is not attained.
11.3 Discretion to Reduce Awards; Participant's Performance
     The Plan Administrator, in its sole and absolute discretion and only prior to a Change of Control, may reduce the amount of any Incentive Award otherwise payable to a Participant upon
 
attainment of any Performance Goal or other performance measure for the applicable Performance Period. A Participant's individual performance must be satisfactory, regardless of the Company's performance and the attainment of Performance Goals or other performance measures, before he or she may be paid an Incentive Award. In evaluating a Participant's performance, the Plan Administrator shall consider the Performance Goals or other performance measures, the Participant's responsibilities and accomplishments, and such other factors as it deems appropriate.
11.4 Required Payment of Incentive Awards
     The Plan Administrator shall make a determination as soon as administratively possible after the information that is necessary to make such a determination is available for a particular Performance Period whether the Performance Goals or other performance measures for the Performance Period have been achieved and the amount of the Incentive Award for each Participant. The Plan Administrator shall certify the foregoing determinations in writing. In the absence of an election by the Participant pursuant to Section 11.5 and Section 13, the Incentive Award shall be paid as soon as practicable after the end of the calendar year, but in no event later than March 15 following the end of the calendar year in which the foregoing determinations have been made as follows:
     (a) Participants shall receive their Incentive Awards in any combination of cash and/or other Awards under the Plan as determined by the Plan Administrator.
     (b) Because the Participant bears forfeiture, price fluctuation, and other attendant risks during the Restriction Period associated with Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, the Plan Administrator may determine, as set forth in the Award Agreement, that Participants who are awarded Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units as part of their Incentive Award shall be awarded additional Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units up to the amount of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units which a Participant is awarded pursuant to Section 11.4(a). No additional Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units are required to be awarded pursuant to this Section 11.4(b).
11.5 Restricted Stock Election
     To the extent permitted by applicable law, in lieu of receiving all or any portion of cash awarded as part of a Participant's Incentive Award pursuant to Section 11.4(a), the Plan Administrator may determine, as set forth in the Award Agreement, that Participants may elect to receive Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units with a value equal to the portion of the Incentive Award which the Participant would otherwise have received in cash, but has elected to receive in Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units ("Restricted Stock Election"). Participants must make their Restricted Stock Election at such time and in such a manner as prescribed by the Plan Administrator and in accordance with Section 409A of the Code. The Plan Administrator may determine, if set forth in the Award Agreement, that each Participant who makes the Restricted Stock Election shall be awarded additional shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to Section 11.4(b) up to the amount of the Participant's Restricted
 
Stock Election. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no additional Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units are required to be awarded pursuant to this Section 11.5.
12.1 Grant of Cash Awards
     Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Plan Administrator, at any time and from time to time, may grant cash awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, including the achievement of Performance Goals or other specific performance measures, as the Plan Administrator may determine (each, a "Cash Award").
12.2 Other Stock-Based Awards
     The Plan Administrator may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted shares of Common Stock) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions, as the Plan Administrator shall determine (each, an "Other Stock-Based Award"). Such Other Stock-Based Awards may involve the transfer of Common Stock to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Common Stock.
12.3 Value of Cash Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
     Each Cash Award granted pursuant to this Section 12 shall specify a payment amount or payment range as determined by the Plan Administrator. Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of Common Stock or units based on Common Stock, as determined by the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator may establish performance measures applicable to such Awards in its discretion. If the Plan Administrator exercises its discretion to establish performance measures, the number and/or value of such cash awards or Other Stock-Based Awards that will be paid out to the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance measures are met.
12.4 Payment of Cash Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
     Payment, if any, with respect to a Cash Award or an Other Stock-Based Award shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash or Common Stock as the Plan Administrator determines and in accordance with Section 409A so as not to be treated as payment made pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. The value of any fractional shares shall be paid in cash.
 
     The Plan Administrator may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, permit Participants to defer Awards under the Plan. Any such deferrals shall be subject to such terms, conditions and procedures that the Plan Administrator may establish from time to time in its sole discretion and consistent with the advance and subsequent deferral election requirements of Section 409A.
     The Award Agreement applicable to each Award shall set forth the effect of a termination of the Participant's employment upon such Award; , , that, unless explicitly set forth otherwise in an Award Agreement or as determined by the Plan Administrator, (1) all of a Participant's unvested and/or unexercisable Awards shall automatically be forfeited upon termination of the Participant's employment for any reason, and, as to Awards consisting of stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, the Participant shall be permitted to exercise the vested portion of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right for at least three months following termination of his or her employment, and (2) all of a Participant's Awards (whether vested or unvested, exercisable or unexercisable) shall automatically be forfeited upon termination of the Participant's employment for Cause. Provisions relating to the effect of a termination of employment upon an Award shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator and need not be uniform among all Awards or among all Participants. Unless the Plan Administrator determines otherwise in accordance with Section 409A, the transfer of employment of a Participant as between the Company and a Subsidiary shall not constitute a termination of employment. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretion to determine the effect, if any, that a sale or other disposition of a Participant's Employer will have on the Participant's Awards.
provided
however
     Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of a Change of Control and as of the date such Change of Control is determined to have occurred:
 
     In addition to the Board's authority set forth in Sections 5.3, in order to maintain the Participants' rights in the event of any Change of Control, the Board, as constituted before such Change of Control, is hereby authorized, and has sole discretion, as to any Award, either at the time such Award is made hereunder or any time thereafter, to take any one or more of the following actions: (i) provide for the purchase of any such Award for an amount of cash equal to the amount that could have been attained upon the exercise of such Award or realization of the Participant's rights had such Award been currently exercisable or payable, as long as such purchase does not result in taxation to the Participant under Section 409A; (ii) make such adjustment to any such Award then outstanding as the Board deems appropriate to reflect such Change of Control; or (iii) cause any such Award then outstanding to be assumed, or new rights substituted therefore, by the acquiring or surviving corporation after such Change of Control. The Board may, in its discretion, include such further provisions and limitations in any Award Agreement, as it may deem equitable and in the best interests of the Company.
     The Company shall not be required to issue any certificate for shares of Common Stock under the Plan prior to:
     (a) obtaining any approval or ruling from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Internal Revenue Service or any other governmental agency which the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine to be necessary or advisable;
     (b) listing of such shares on any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may then be listed; and
     (c) completing any registration or other qualification of such shares under any federal or state laws, rulings or regulations of any governmental body which the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine to be necessary or advisable.
     All certificates, or book-entry accounts, for shares of Common Stock delivered under the Plan shall also be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Plan Administrator may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which Common Stock is then listed and any applicable federal or state securities laws, and the Plan Administrator may cause a
 
legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates, or notations on such book-entry accounts, to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. The foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not be effective if and to the extent that the shares of Common Stock delivered under the Plan are covered by an effective and current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or if and so long as the Plan Administrator determines that application of such provisions are no longer required or desirable. In making such determination, the Plan Administrator may rely upon an opinion of counsel for the Company. Without limiting the foregoing, the Plan Administrator may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by a Participant or other subsequent transfers by a Participant of any shares of Common Stock issued under this Plan, including without limitation (i) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (ii) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by one or more Participants and (iii) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.
17.1 Forfeiture Events and Nontransferability
     (a) If the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company, as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, and if a Participant knowingly engaged in the misconduct, was grossly negligent with respect to such misconduct, or knowingly or grossly negligently failed to prevent the misconduct (whether or not the Participant is one of the individuals subject to automatic forfeiture under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), the Plan Administrator may determine that such Participant shall reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of an Award earned or accrued during the twelve-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever first occurred) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement.
     (b) The Plan Administrator may specify in an Award Agreement or otherwise that a Participant's rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events may include, without limitation, termination of employment for Cause, violation of material policies that may apply to the Participant, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality, or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company or a Subsidiary.
     (c) Unless otherwise provided in the Plan, the right of a Participant or Beneficiary to the payment of any Award granted under the Plan and the rights and privileges conferred thereby shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process and may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any manner (whether by operation of law or otherwise) other than by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution unless the Participant has
 
received the Plan Administrator's prior written consent. Except as otherwise provided for under the Plan, if any Participant attempts to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of any Award under the Plan or of any right or privilege conferred thereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or such Award, or suffers the sale or levy or any attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, all affected Awards held by such Participant shall be immediately forfeited.
17.2 No Individual Rights
     Nothing contained in the Plan, or in any Award granted pursuant to the Plan, shall confer upon any employee any right with respect to continuance of employment by the Company or a Subsidiary, nor interfere in any way with the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of such employee at any time with or without assigning any reason therefor.
17.3 Other Compensation
     Unless determined otherwise by the Plan Administrator or required by contractual obligations, the grant, vesting or payment of Awards under the Plan shall not be considered as part of a Participant's salary or used for the calculation of any other pay, allowance, pension or other benefit unless otherwise permitted by other benefit plans provided by the Company or a Subsidiary, or required by law or by contractual obligations of the Company or a Subsidiary.
17.4 Leaves of Absence
     Leaves of absence for such periods and purposes conforming to the personnel policy of the Company, or of a Subsidiary, as applicable, shall not be deemed terminations or interruptions of employment, unless a Participant commences a leave of absence from which he or she is not expected to return to active employment with the Company or a Subsidiary. The foregoing notwithstanding, with respect to Incentive Stock Options, employment shall not be deemed to continue beyond the first ninety (90) days of such leave unless the Participant's reemployment rights are guaranteed by statute or contract. With respect to any Participant who, after the date an Award is granted under this Plan, ceases to be employed by the Company or a Subsidiary on a full-time basis but remains employed on a part-time basis, the Plan Administrator may make appropriate adjustments, as determined in its sole discretion, as to the number of shares issuable under, the vesting schedule of, or the amount payable under any unvested Awards held by such Participant.
17.5 Transfers
     In the event a Participant is transferred from the Company to a Subsidiary, or or is promoted or given different responsibilities, Awards granted to the Participant prior to such date shall not be affected.
vice versa,
 
17.6 Unfunded Obligations
     Any amounts (deferred or otherwise) to be paid to Participants pursuant to the Plan are unfunded obligations. Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary is required to segregate any monies from its general funds, to create any trusts or to make any special deposits with respect to this obligation. The Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, may direct the Company to share with a Subsidiary the costs of a portion of the Incentive Awards paid to Participants who are executives of those companies. Beneficial ownership of any investments, including trust investments which the Company may make to fulfill this obligation, shall at all times remain in the Company. Any investments and the creation or maintenance of any trust or any Participant account shall not create or constitute a trust or a fiduciary relationship between the Plan Administrator, the Company or any Subsidiary and a Participant, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial interest in any Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary or the Participant's creditors in any assets of the Company or a Subsidiary whatsoever. The Participants shall have no claim against the Company for any changes in the value of any assets which may be invested or reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan.
17.7 Beneficiaries
     The designation of a Beneficiary shall be on a form provided by the Company, executed by the Participant (with the consent of the Participant's spouse, if required by the Company for reasons of community property or otherwise), and delivered to a designated representative of the Company. A Participant may change his or her Beneficiary designation at any time. A designation by a Participant under any predecessor plans shall remain in effect under the Plan unless such designation is revoked or changed under the Plan. If no Beneficiary is designated, if the designation is ineffective, or if the Beneficiary dies before the balance of a Participant's benefit is paid, the balance shall be paid to the Participant's spouse, or if there is no surviving spouse, to the Participant's lineal descendants, pro rata, or if there is no surviving spouse or any lineal descendant, to the Participant's estate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, a Participant's Beneficiary shall be determined under applicable state law if such state law does not recognize Beneficiary designations under plans of this sort and is not preempted by laws which recognize the provisions of this Section 17.7.
17.8 Governing Law
     The Plan shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.
17.9 Satisfaction of Tax Obligations
     Appropriate provision shall be made for all taxes required to be withheld in connection with the exercise, grant, vesting or other taxable event of Awards under the applicable laws and regulations of any governmental authority, whether federal, state or local and whether domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the required withholding of a sufficient amount of Common Stock otherwise issuable to a Participant to satisfy the said required minimum tax withholding obligations. To the extent provided by the Plan Administrator, a Participant is
 
permitted to deliver Common Stock (including shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right other than the Option or Stock Appreciation Right currently being exercised, to the extent permitted by applicable regulations) for payment of withholding taxes on the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, upon the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units or upon the payout of Performance Shares, Performance Units or Incentive Awards. Common Stock may be required to be withheld from the shares issuable to the Participant upon the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, upon the vesting of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units or upon the payout of Performance Shares or Performance Units to satisfy such minimum required tax withholding obligations. The Fair Market Value of Common Stock as delivered pursuant to this Section 17.9 shall be determined as of the day of release, and shall be calculated in accordance with Section 2.16.
     Any Participant who makes a Section 83(b) election under the Code shall, within ten (10) days of making such election, notify the Company in writing of such election and shall provide the Company or such Participant's Employer with a copy of such election form filed with the Internal Revenue Service.
     A Participant is solely responsible for obtaining, or failing to obtain, tax advice with respect to participation in the Plan prior to the Participant's (i) entering into any transaction under or with respect to the Plan, (ii) designating or choosing the times of distributions under the Plan, or (iii) disposing of any Common Stock issued under the Plan.
17.10 Participants in Foreign Jurisdictions
     The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, procedures and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of any countries in which the Company or any Subsidiary may operate to ensure the viability of the benefits from Awards granted to Participants employed in such countries, to meet the requirements of local laws that permit the Plan to operate in a qualified or tax-efficient manner, to comply with applicable foreign laws and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
18.1 Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act and Section 162(m) of the Code
     The Company's intention is that, so long as any of the Company's equity securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall comply in all respects with the rules of any exchange on which the Common Stock is traded and with Rule 16b-3. In addition, it is the Company's intention that, as to Covered Employees, unless otherwise indicated in an Award Agreement, stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Performance Shares, Performance Units and Incentive Awards shall qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m). If any Plan provision is determined not to be in
 
compliance with the foregoing intentions, that provision shall be deemed modified as necessary to meet the requirements of any such exchange, Rule 16b-3 and Section 162(m).
18.2 Section 409A of the Code
     The Plan is intended to be administered, operated and construed in compliance with Section 409A and any guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding this or any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Board may amend the Plan in any manner, or take any other action, that either of them determines, in its sole discretion, is necessary, appropriate or advisable to cause the Plan to comply with Section 409A and any guidance issued thereunder. Any such action, once taken, shall be deemed to be effective from the earliest date necessary to avoid a violation of Section 409A and shall be final, binding and conclusive on all Participants and other individuals having or claiming any right or interest under the Plan.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of the Plan or any Award Agreement, no payment pursuant to an Award that is subject to Section 409A shall be made to a Participant as a result of such Participant's "separation from service" (within the meaning of such phrase in Section 409A), within the six-month period following such separation from service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the employee), if the Participant is a Specified Employee. For purposes of the previous sentence the term "Specified Employee" is defined in Section 409A and the authoritative guidance thereunder.
     The Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors on February 12, 2008, and is subject to approval by the Company's stockholders. If approved by the stockholders, this Plan will replace the Prior Plans, and no further Awards will be made under the Prior Plans. This Plan shall become effective on the Effective Date, and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Board of Directors to terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Section 20, until all Common Stock subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the provisions herein. However, in no event may an Award be granted under the Plan on or after the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Effective Date. After this Plan is terminated, no future Awards may be granted pursuant to the Plan, but Awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their applicable terms and conditions and this Plan's terms and conditions.
20.1 Amendment of Plan
     Subject to the Board of Directors, the Plan Administrator may from time to time make such amendments to the Plan as it may deem proper and in the best interest of the Company, including, without limitation, any amendment necessary to ensure that the Company may obtain
 
any regulatory approval referred to in Section 16; , , that (a) to the extent required by applicable law, regulation or stock exchange rule, stockholder approval shall be required, and (b) except as otherwise provided in the Plan, no change in any Award previously granted under the Plan may be made without the consent of the Participant if such change would impair the right of the Participant under the Award to acquire or retain Common Stock or cash that the Participant may have acquired as a result of the Plan.
provided
however
20.2 Termination or Suspension of Plan
     The Board of Directors may at any time suspend the operation of or terminate the Plan with respect to any Common Stock or rights which are not at that time subject to any Award outstanding under the Plan.
20.3 Code Section 162(m) Approval
     If so determined by the Plan Administrator, the provisions of the Plan relating to Incentive Awards (or any other Award subject to Code Section 162(m)) shall be disclosed to, and reapproved by, the Company's stockholders no later than the first stockholder meeting that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which the Effective Date occurs in order for Incentive Awards (and other Awards subject to Code Section 162(m)) granted after such time to be exempt from the deduction limitations of Code Section 162(m).
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused the Plan to be executed effective as of May 20, 2008.

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
1.1 Purpose
     The purpose of the Anadarko Petroleum Corporation 2008 Director Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to provide a compensation program for non-employee Directors of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") that will attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable non-employees to serve as members of the Company's Board of Directors. The Plan provides for (i) the payment of an annual retainer, meeting fees (if any), committee assignment fees (if any), and other Board of Director retainer fees in the form of cash, deferred cash, Common Stock, or deferred shares of Common Stock or any combination of the foregoing; and (ii) the award of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Other Stock-Based Awards.
     Unless otherwise required by the context, the following terms when used in the Plan shall have the meanings set forth in this Section 2:
2.1 Award
     Any Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit or any Other Stock-Based Award, in each case payable in cash or in shares of Common Stock as may be designated by the Committee.
2.2 Award Agreement
     The written agreement setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to an Award granted under the Plan (which, in the discretion of the Committee, need not be countersigned by a Participant). The Committee may, in its discretion, provide for the use of electronic, internet or other non-paper Award Agreements.
2.3 Beneficiary
     The person or persons designated by a Participant pursuant to Section 16.3 of this Plan to whom payments (either in cash or shares of Common Stock) are to be paid pursuant to the terms of this Plan in the event of the Participant's death.
 
2.4 Board
     The Board of Directors of the Company.
2.5 Cash Deferral
     Any Compensation deferred by a Participant in the form of cash.
2.6 Change in Capitalization
     Any increase or reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock, any change (including, without limitation, in the case of a spin-off, dividend or other distribution in respect of shares, a change in value) in the shares of Common Stock or any exchange of shares of Common Stock for a different number or kind of shares of Common Stock or other securities of the Company or another corporation, by reason of a reclassification, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, reorganization, spin-off, split-up, issuance of warrants, rights or debentures, stock dividend, stock split or reverse stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, property dividend, combination or exchange of shares, repurchase of shares, change in corporate structure or otherwise.
2.7 Change of Control
     The occurrence of any of the following after the Effective Date:
a) any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") acquires beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (B) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , however, that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (1) any acquisition directly from the Company, (2) any acquisition by the Company, (3) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (4) any acquisition pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B), and (C) of this Section 2.7(c); or
provided
(b) individuals who, as of the Effective Date of the Plan, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , howeverthat any individual becoming a director subsequent to the effective date of the Plan whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this
provided
,
 
purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board; or
(c) consummation by the Company of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of Common Stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
(d) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to an Award that is (i) subject to Section 409A and (ii) a Change of Control would accelerate the timing of payment thereunder, the term "Change of Control" shall mean a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company as defined in Section 409A and the authoritative guidance issued thereunder, but only to the extent inconsistent with the above definition, and only to the minimum extent necessary to comply with Section 409A as determined by the Committee.
 
2.8 Code
     The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and in effect from time to time, and the temporary or final regulations of the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury adopted pursuant to the Code.
2.9 Committee
     A committee consisting of two or more Eligible Directors, as designated by the Board. In the absence of a specific Board designation to the contrary, the committee shall consist of the same members of the Board's Compensation and Benefits Committee.
2.10 Common Stock
     The Common Stock of the Company, $0.10 par value per share, or such other class of shares or other securities as may be applicable pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.
2.11 Common Stock Deferral
     Any Compensation deferred by a Participant in the form of Common Stock.
2.12 Company
     As defined in Section 1.
2.13 Compensation
     The cash value of a Participant's annual retainer, meeting fees (if any), committee assignment fees (if any) and other Board retainer fees related to a Participant's service on the Board.
2.14 Conversion Premium
     As defined in Section 12.2(a).
2.15 Effective Date
     The effective date of the Plan is May 20, 2008, the date on which it was approved by the stockholders of the Company.
2.16 Eligible Director
     Each member of the Board, who is not an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
2.17 Exchange Act
     The Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and rules promulgated thereunder.
2.18 Fair Market Value
     As of any given date, the closing sales price at which Common Stock is sold on such date as reported in the NYSE-Composite Transactions by or any other comparable service the Committee may determine is reliable for such date, or if no Common Stock was traded on such date, on the next preceding day on which Common Stock was so traded. If the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock cannot be determined pursuant to the preceding provisions, the "Fair Market Value" of the Common Stock shall be determined by the Committee in such a manner as it deems appropriate, consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.
The Wall Street Journal
2.19 Full Value Award
     An Award other than of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, which is settled by the issuance of Common Stock.
2.20 Memorandum Deferred Account
     As defined in Section 12.3.
2.21 Option Price
     The price per share of Common Stock at which a Stock Option is exercisable.
2.22 Other Stock-Based Award
     As defined in Section 10.
2.23 Participant
     Each Eligible Director of the Board to whom Awards are granted or Compensation is paid under the Plan.
2.24 Payment Date
     As defined in Section 11.1.
2.25 Permanent Disability
     As defined in Section 16.4.
 
2.26 Permitted Transferee
     As defined in Section 6.2(f).
2.27 Plan
     As defined in Section 1.
2.28 Plan Quarter
     Each calendar quarter.
2.29 Purchase Price
     As defined in Section 6.2(d).
2.30 Restricted Stock
     Common Stock granted under the Plan that is subject to the requirements of Section 8 and such other restrictions as the Board or the Committee deems appropriate.
2.31 Restricted Stock Units
     An award granted under the Plan representing a right to receive a payment (either in cash or Common Stock) equal to the value of a share of Common Stock.
2.32 Restriction Period
     As defined in Sections 8.2 and 9.2.
2.33 Rule 16b-3
     Rule 16b-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.
2.34 Section 409A
     Section 409A of the Code, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
2.35 Stock Appreciation Right
     Any right granted under Section 7.
2.36 Stock Option
     A stock option which is not intended to meet the requirements of an incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Code.
 
3.1 Committee
     Subject to Section 16.7, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall interpret the Plan, shall prescribe, amend and rescind rules relating to it from time to time as it deems proper and in the best interests of the Company, and shall take any other action necessary for the administration of the Plan. Any decision or interpretation adopted by the Committee shall be final and conclusive and shall be binding upon all Participants. The Committee may rely on officers, employees or other agents of the Company to handle the day-to-day administrative matters of the Plan.
3.2 Indemnification of Committee
     Each member of the Committee, while serving as such, shall be entitled, in good faith, to rely or act upon any advice of the Company's independent auditors, counsel or consultants hired by the Committee, or other agents assisting in the administration of the Plan. The Committee and any officers or employees of the Company acting at the direction or on behalf of the Company shall not be personally liable for any action or determination taken or made, or not taken or made, in good faith with respect to the Plan, and shall, to the extent permitted by law, be fully indemnified and protected under the Company's restated certificate of incorporation or by-laws with respect to any such action or determination.
4.1 Participants
     Each person who is an Eligible Director of the Company on the Effective Date of the Plan shall become a Participant in the Plan on the Effective Date. Thereafter, each Eligible Director of the Company shall become a Participant immediately upon election to the Board.
 
5.1 Maximum Number of Shares
     (a) 
Share Authorization
     Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.2, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for grant to Participants under this Plan on or after the Effective Date shall be 1,500,000 shares.
     (b) 
Limit on Full Value Awards  Flexible Share Pool
     To the extent that a share of Common Stock is issued pursuant to the grant or exercise of a Full Value Award, it shall reduce the share authorization by 2.27 shares of Common Stock; and to the extent that a share of Common Stock is issued pursuant to the grant or exercise of an Award other than a Full Value Award, it shall reduce the share authorization by one (1) share of Common Stock.
     (c) 
Share Usage
     Shares of Common Stock covered by an Award shall only be counted as used to the extent they are actually issued. Any shares of Common Stock related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such shares of Common Stock, are settled in cash in lieu of shares of Common Stock, or are exchanged with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of shares of Common Stock, for Awards not involving shares of Common Stock, shall be available again for grant under this Plan. However, the full number of Stock Appreciation Rights granted that are to be settled by the issuance of shares of Common Stock shall be counted against the number of shares of Common Stock available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of shares of Common Stock actually issued upon settlement of such Stock Appreciation Rights. Furthermore, any shares of Common Stock withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations on an Award issued under the Plan, shares of Common Stock tendered to pay the exercise price of an Award under the Plan, and shares of Common Stock repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise will no longer be eligible to be again available for grant under this Plan. The shares of Common Stock available for issuance under this Plan may be authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock or treasury shares of Common Stock.
5.2 Adjustment in Authorized Shares
     In the event of recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, exchange of shares, merger, reorganization, change in corporate structure or shares of the Company or similar event, the Board shall make such adjustments, if any, as it determines are appropriate and equitable to (i) the number of shares authorized for issuance under the Plan, (ii) the number of shares allocated under the Common Stock Deferral, and (iii) the number of
 
shares of Common Stock which is subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan and the Option Price, if applicable. In the case of an "equity restructuring" (within the meaning of the Financial Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), the Board shall make an equitable or appropriate adjustment to outstanding Awards to reflect such equity restructuring. Any such adjustment shall be final, binding and conclusive on all persons claiming any right or interest under the Plan. No adjustments made under this Section 5 shall be made if such adjustment would result in adverse taxation to the Participant under Section 409A.
6.1 Grant of Stock Options
     (a) Stock Options may be granted to Eligible Directors in such number, and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Committee may determine, and as evidenced by an Award Agreement. The granting of a Stock Option shall take place when the Committee by resolution, written consent or other appropriate action determines to grant such a Stock Option to a particular Participant on a particular date for which the Fair Market Value shall be used for the Option Price.
6.2 Terms of Stock Options
     All Stock Options under the Plan shall be granted subject to the following terms and conditions, as specifically set out in the Award Agreement:
     (a) 
Option Price
     The Option Price shall be determined by the Committee in any reasonable manner, but shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date the Stock Option is granted, except in the case of Stock Options that are granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding Awards previously granted by (i) a company acquired by the Company or a subsidiary, or (ii) a company with which the Company or a subsidiary combines.
     (b) 
Duration of Stock Options
     Stock Options shall be exercisable at such time and under such conditions as set forth in the Award Agreement, but in no event shall any Stock Option be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date of its grant.
 
     (c) 
Exercise of Stock Options
     Shares of Common Stock covered by a Stock Option may be purchased at one time or in such installments over the term of the Stock Option, as may be provided in the Award Agreement. Any shares not purchased on an applicable installment date may be purchased thereafter at any time prior to the expiration of the Stock Option in accordance with its terms. To the extent that the right to purchase shares has accrued thereunder, Stock Options may be exercised from time to time by written notice to the Company setting forth the number of shares with respect to which the Stock Option is being exercised.
     (d) 
Payment
     The Purchase Price of shares purchased under Stock Options shall be paid in full to the Company upon the exercise of the Stock Option by delivery of consideration equal to the product of the Option Price and the number of shares of Common Stock purchased (the "Purchase Price"). Such consideration may be either (i) in cash or (ii) at the discretion of the Committee, in Common Stock (by either actual delivery of Common Stock or by attestation presenting satisfactory proof of beneficial ownership of such Common Stock) already owned by the Participant, or any combination of cash and Common Stock. The Fair Market Value of such Common Stock as delivered shall be valued as of the day of exercise. The Committee can determine that additional forms of payment will be permitted. To the extent permitted by the Committee and applicable laws and regulations (including, without limitation, federal tax and securities laws, regulations and state corporate law), an option may also be exercised in a "cashless" exercise by delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker approved by the Company to promptly deliver to the Company sufficient proceeds to pay the Purchase Price. A Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder until the shares of Common Stock are issued to the Participant.
     The Committee may permit a Participant to pay all or a portion of the Purchase Price by having shares of Common Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to all or a portion of the Purchase Price be withheld from the shares issuable to the Participant upon the exercise of the Stock Option. The Fair Market Value of such Common Stock as is withheld shall be determined as of the same day as the exercise of the Stock Option.
     (e) 
Restrictions
     The Committee shall determine and reflect in the Award Agreement, with respect to each Stock Option, the nature and extent of the restrictions, if any, to be imposed on the shares of Common Stock which may be purchased thereunder, including, without limitation, restrictions on the transferability of such shares acquired through the exercise of such Stock Options for such periods as the
 
Committee may determine and, further, that in the event of a Participant's cessation from service as a member of the Board during the time period in which such Common Stock is nontransferable, the Participant shall be required to sell such Common Stock back to the Company at such prices as the Committee may specify. In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable laws and regulations, the Committee may require that a Participant who wants to effectuate a "cashless" exercise of Stock Options be required to sell the shares of Common Stock acquired in the associated exercise to the Company, or in the open market through the use of a broker selected by the Company, at such price and on such terms as the Committee may determine at the time of grant, or otherwise. Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any shares issued as a result of the exercise of a Stock Option, including without limitation (i) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (ii) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by one or more Participants and (iii) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.
     (f) 
Transferability of Stock Options
     Notwithstanding Section 16.6, and only as provided by the Committee, Stock Options may be transferred to a Participant's immediate family members, directly or indirectly or by means of a trust, corporate entity or partnership (a person who thus acquires Stock Options by such transfer, a "Permitted Transferee"). A transfer of a Stock Option may only be effected by the Company at the request of the Participant and shall become effective upon the Permitted Transferee agreeing to such terms as the Committee may require and only when recorded in the Company's record of outstanding Stock Options. In the event a Stock Option is transferred as contemplated hereby, the Stock Option may not be subsequently transferred by the Permitted Transferee except a transfer back to the Participant or by will or the laws of descent and distribution. A transferred Stock Option may be exercised by a Permitted Transferee to the same extent as, and subject to the same terms and conditions as, the Participant (except as otherwise provided herein), as if no transfer had taken place. As used herein, "immediate family member" shall mean, with respect to any person, such person's child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, and shall include adoptive relationships. In the event of exercise of a transferred Stock Option by a Permitted Transferee, any amounts due to (or to be withheld by) the Company upon exercise of the option shall be delivered by (or withheld from amounts due to) the Participant, the Participant's estate or the Permitted Transferee, in the reasonable discretion of the Company.
     In addition, to the extent permitted by applicable law and Rule 16b-3, and notwithstanding Section 16.6, the Committee may permit a recipient of a Stock
 
Option to designate in writing during the Participant's lifetime a Beneficiary to receive and exercise the Participant's Stock Options in the event of such Participant's death.
     (g) 
Purchase for Investment
     The Committee shall have the right to require that each Participant or other person who shall exercise a Stock Option under the Plan, and each person into whose name shares of Common Stock shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Option, represent and agree that any and all shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to such Stock Option are being purchased for investment only and not with a view to the distribution or resale thereof and that such shares will not be sold except in accordance with such restrictions or limitations as may be set forth in the Stock Option or by the Committee. This Section 6.2(g) shall be inoperative during any period of time when the Company has obtained all necessary or advisable approvals from governmental agencies and has completed all necessary or advisable registrations or other qualifications of shares of Common Stock as to which Stock Options may from time to time be granted as contemplated in Section 16.
     (h) 
No Repricing
     Except in connection with a Change in Capitalization or approval of the Company's stockholders, the Option Price shall not be reduced to less than the Fair Market Value on the date such Stock Options were granted.
7.1 Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights
     Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to Eligible Directors in such number, and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Committee shall determine, and as evidenced by the Award Agreement. The Committee may grant a Stock Appreciation Right or provide for the grant of a Stock Appreciation Right, either from time to time in the discretion of the Committee or automatically upon the occurrence of specified events. The granting of a Stock Appreciation Right shall take place when the Committee by resolution, written consent or other appropriate action determines to grant such a Stock Appreciation Right to a particular Participant at a particular price. A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted freestanding or in tandem or in combination with any other Award under the Plan.
 
7.2 Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights
     A Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised upon such terms and conditions and for such term as the Committee shall determine; , , no Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date of its grant. Upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, a Participant shall be entitled to receive Common Stock with an aggregate Fair Market Value determined by multiplying (i) the difference between the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right over the price determined by the Committee on the date of grant (which price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant, except in the case of Stock Appreciation Rights that are granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by (x) a company acquired by the Company or a subsidiary, or (y) a company with which the Company or a subsidiary combines) multiplied by (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised. The value of any fractional shares shall be paid in cash.
provided
however
7.3 Special Provisions Applicable to Stock Appreciation Rights
Stock Appreciation Rights are subject to the following restrictions:
(a) A Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with any other Award under the Plan shall be exercisable at such time or times as the Award to which it relates shall be exercisable, or at such other times as the Committee may determine.
(b) The right of a Participant to exercise a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with any other Award under the Plan shall be canceled if and to the extent the related Award is exercised or canceled. To the extent that a Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, the related Award shall be deemed to have been surrendered unexercised and canceled.
(c) A holder of Stock Appreciation Rights shall have none of the rights of a stockholder until the Common Stock, if any, is issued to such holder pursuant to such holder's exercise of such rights.
(d) The acquisition of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right shall be subject to the same restrictions as would apply to the acquisition of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of a Stock Option, as set forth in Section 6.2.
7.4 No Repricing
     Except in connection with a Change in Capitalization or approval of the Company's stockholders, the price at which Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised
 
shall not be reduced to less than the Fair Market Value on the date such Stock Appreciation Rights were granted.
8.1 Grant of Restricted Stock
     Restricted Stock may be granted to Participants in such number and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Committee shall determine and as evidenced by an Award Agreement. The granting of Restricted Stock shall take place when the Committee by resolution, written consent or other appropriate action determines to grant such Restricted Stock to a particular Participant.
8.2 Restriction Period
     Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, determined by the Committee or specified in the Award Agreement, Restricted Stock shall be subject to a time vesting period of no less than one (1) year from the date of grant (the "Restriction Period"). During the Restriction Period, the Restricted Stock is subject to Section 16.6. During the Restriction Period, the Committee shall evidence the restrictions on the shares of Restricted Stock in such a manner as it determines is appropriate (including, without limitation, (i) by means of appropriate legends on shares of Restricted Stock that have been certificated and (ii) by means of appropriate stop-transfer orders on shares of Restricted Stock credited to book-entry accounts).
8.3 Voting Rights; Dividends and Other Distributions
     A Participant receiving a grant of Restricted Stock shall be recorded as a stockholder of the Company. Each Participant who receives a grant of Restricted Stock shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to such shares (except as provided in the restrictions on transferability), including the right to vote the shares and receive dividends and other distributions paid with respect to the underlying shares of Restricted Stock; , , that no Participant awarded Restricted Stock shall have any right as a stockholder with respect to any shares subject to the Participant's Restricted Stock grant prior to the date of issuance to the Participant of a certificate or certificates, or the establishment of a book-entry account, for such shares.
provided
however
8.4 Issuance of Shares; Settlement of Awards
     When the restrictions imposed by Section 8.2 expire or otherwise lapse with respect to one or more shares of Restricted Stock, the Company shall deliver to the Participant one (1) share of Common Stock in satisfaction of each share of Restricted Stock, which shares so delivered shall not contain any legend. Such delivery of shares may be in the form of either a physical stock certificate or certificates or the
 
establishment of a book-entry account on behalf of such Participant. Any fractional shares subject to such Restricted Stock shall be paid to the Participant in cash.
9.1 Grant of Restricted Stock Units
     Restricted Stock Units may be granted to Participants in such number and at such times during the term of the Plan as the Committee shall determine and as evidenced by an Award Agreement. The granting of Restricted Stock Units shall take place when the Committee by resolution, written consent or other appropriate action determines to grant such Restricted Stock Units to a particular Participant.
9.2 Restriction Period
     Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, determined by the Committee or specified in the Award Agreement, Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to a time vesting period of no less than one (1) year from the date of grant (the "Restriction Period"). During the Restriction Period, the Restricted Stock Units are subject to Section 16.6.
9.3 Other Restrictions
     The Committee may impose such other restrictions on Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to the Plan as it deems necessary or appropriate. A Participant receiving a grant of Restricted Stock Units shall not be recorded as a stockholder of the Company and shall not acquire any rights of a stockholder unless or until the Participant is issued shares of Common Stock in settlement of such Restricted Stock Units.
9.4 Dividend Equivalents
     The Board or the Committee may provide that Restricted Stock Units awarded under the Plan shall be entitled to an amount per Restricted Stock Unit equal in value to the cash dividend, if any, paid per share of Common Stock on issued and outstanding shares, on the dividend payment dates occurring during the period between the date on which the Restricted Stock Units are granted to the Participant and the date on which such Restricted Stock Units are settled, cancelled, forfeited, waived, surrendered or terminated under the Plan. Such paid amounts called "dividend equivalents" shall be (i) paid in cash or Common Stock or (ii) credited to the Participant as additional Restricted Stock Units, or any combination thereof, as the Board or the Committee, as appropriate, shall determine. A Restricted Stock Unit credited to a Participant as a dividend equivalent shall vest and be settled at such time as the Restricted Stock Unit to which it relates vests and is settled.
 
9.5 Issuance of Shares; Settlement of Awards
     When the restrictions imposed by Sections 9.2 and 9.3 expire or otherwise lapse with respect to one or more Restricted Stock Units, Restricted Stock Units shall be settled (i) in cash or (ii) by the delivery to the Participant of the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of the Participant's Restricted Stock Units that are vested, or any combination thereof, as set forth in the Award Agreement. Any fractional shares subject to such Restricted Stock Units shall be paid to the Participant in cash.
     The Board or Committee is hereby authorized to grant to an Eligible Director an "Other Stock-Based Award", which shall consist of a right (i) which is not an Award or right described in Sections 6, 7, 8 or 9 and (ii) which is denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Common Stock (including without limitation, securities convertible into Common Stock), as are deemed by the Board or Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan; provided, that any such rights must comply, with applicable law. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Board or Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Other Stock-Based Award, including but not limited to dividend equivalents.
11.1 Amount of Compensation
     Each Participant's Compensation shall be determined by the Committee and shall be paid, unless deferred pursuant to Section 12, within thirty (30) day after the end of each Plan Quarter in which it is earned (the "Payment Date"). The Committee, if necessary, may determine prior to the beginning of the applicable Plan Quarter for which Compensation is to be paid whether payment of Compensation shall be made at a date later than the Payment Date.
11.2 Compensation Election
     (a) By December 31 of a calendar year, or at such later time as may be provided by Section 409A, each Participant may elect to receive his or her Compensation for the following year in the form of cash, deferred cash, Common Stock, deferred Common Stock or any combination of the foregoing, by submitting a written notice to the Company in the manner prescribed by the Committee. In the case of a newly-elected Eligible Director, such election may be made within thirty (30) days of the Director's election to the Board with respect to Compensation for services performed during the
 
portion of the applicable calendar year that is subsequent to the election. Any combination of the alternatives may be elected, provided the aggregate of the alternatives elected may not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the Participant's Compensation, except as provided in Section 12.2(a). Unless otherwise provided under the terms of the Compensation, if no election is received by the Company, the Participant shall be deemed to have made an election to receive his or her Compensation in undeferred cash. An election under this Section 11.2 shall be irrevocable and shall apply to the Compensation earned during the calendar year for which the election is effective.
     (b) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, deferred cash elections are only available pursuant to this Plan if an Eligible Director is not otherwise eligible to participate in one of the Company's other deferred compensation plans or programs with respect to their cash Compensation.
12.1 Deferred Cash
     If a Participant elects pursuant to Section 11.2 to make a Cash Deferral, such Cash Deferral shall be recorded in a Memorandum Deferred Account as of the date the Compensation otherwise would have been paid.
12.2 Deferred Common Stock
     (a) If a Participant elects pursuant to Section 11.2 to have all or a specified percentage of his or her cash Compensation deferred in Common Stock, then an amount shall be recorded in a Memorandum Deferred Account, in the form of shares of Common Stock, as determined in subsection (b) below, as of the date the Compensation otherwise would have been paid. The Common Stock Deferral credited to the Participant's Memorandum Deferred Account in such case shall be equal to the amount actually deferred plus a premium (the "Conversion Premium"). The Conversion Premium shall be a percentage of the Compensation actually deferred as determined by the Committee.
     (b) The number of shares of Common Stock credited to a Participant's Memorandum Deferred Account shall equal the Common Stock Deferral divided by the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the applicable Payment Date.
     (c) Subject to Section 16.1, each Participant who elects deferred Common Stock shall, once the shares of Common Stock have been credited to his or her Memorandum Deferred Account, receive dividend equivalents and other distributions on such shares, subject to applicable laws. The Board or Committee may determine that dividend equivalents and other distributions shall be paid in cash on a current basis or reinvested promptly in additional shares of Common Stock and such additional shares shall be credited to the Memorandum Deferred Account.
 
     (d) The deferred Common Stock balance in the Memorandum Deferred Account shall be payable to the Participant in Common Stock.
12.3 Memorandum Deferred Account
     The Company shall establish a ledger account (the "Memorandum Deferred Account") for each Participant for the purpose of recording the Company's obligation to pay the Compensation as provided in Sections 15.1 and 15.2.
  (a) The Committee shall determine the rate of interest or earnings/losses credited to the Memorandum Deferred Account periodically and in so doing may take into account such factors it deems appropriate.
  (b) The Company shall promptly credit each Participant's Memorandum Deferred Account with the number of shares of Common Stock calculated in accordance with Section 12.2(b) and (c).
     The Award Agreement applicable to each Award shall set forth the effect of a Participant's cessation of service as a member of the Board. However, unless explicitly set forth otherwise in an Award Agreement to the contrary, all of a Participant's unvested and/or unexercisable Awards shall automatically be forfeited when a Participant's ceases to serve as a director of the Board; provided that such Participant shall be permitted to exercise the vested portion of any Stock Options for at least three months following such cessation date. Upon a Participant's cessation of service as a member of the Board, Compensation attributed to the Plan Quarter during which cessation occurred shall be earned by the Participant in an amount equal to the meeting fees earned and a pro rata amount for the quarterly retainer and shall be paid or deferred pursuant to a valid election for the year during which such cessation has occurred. The Committee may, when it finds that a waiver would be in the best interests of the Company, waive in whole or in part any or all remaining restrictions with respect to such Participant's Awards. Unrestricted Shares, evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall deem appropriate, shall be issued to the holder of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or Other-Stock Based Awards, as applicable, promptly after the applicable restrictions have lapsed or otherwise been satisfied.
 
     In the event of a Change of Control:
     (a) all Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights then held by the Participant shall become fully vested and/or exercisable;
     (b) the Restriction Periods applicable to all shares of Restricted Stock and all Restricted Stock Units then held by the Participant shall immediately lapse; and
     (c) all Stock-Based Awards, Cash Deferrals and Common Stock Deferrals under this Plan (irrespective of payment elections at the time of such deferrals) shall be paid to a Participant (or his or her Beneficiary in the case of his or her death) within thirty (30) days after the date of the Change of Control, or at such later time as may be required to enable the Eligible Director to avoid liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
     Notwithstanding Sections 14(b) and (c) above, no such Awards shall be paid to a Participant who continues to serve as a member of the Board of the Company or upon the board of directors of the Company's successor, until such time said Awards would otherwise be paid.
15.1 Payment of Deferred Cash
     When a Participant ceases to be a member of the Board, the Company shall pay to the Participant (or the Participant's Beneficiary in the case of the Participant's death) an amount equal to the deferred cash balance of his or her Memorandum Deferred Account, plus interest (at a rate determined pursuant to Section 12.3) on the outstanding deferred cash account balance to the date of distribution, as follows:
  (a) a lump sum cash payment (payable within 30 days),
  (b) a lump sum cash payment made at a date certain in the future as determined at the time the deferral election is made pursuant to Section 11.2, or
  (c) in periodic installments over a period of years as determined at the time the deferral election is made under Section 11.2.
Payment of deferred cash shall be made or, in the case of installments over a period of years, shall begin to be made, in the month following the date on which a Participant ceases to be a member of the Board.
 
15.2 Payment of Deferred Common Stock
     When a Participant ceases to be a member of the Board, the Company shall distribute Common Stock to the Participant (or the Participant's Beneficiary in the case of the Participant's death) in an amount equal to the number of whole shares of Common Stock in a Participant's Memorandum Deferred Account, as follows:
  (a) a lump sum distribution (payable within 30 days),
  (b) a lump sum cash payment made at a date certain in the future as determined at the time the deferral election is made pursuant to Section 11.2, or
  (c) in annual installments over a period of years as determined at the time the deferral election is made under Section 11.2.
Any fractional shares of Common Stock held in the Participant's account shall be paid to the Participant (or the Participant's Beneficiary in the case of the Participant's death) in a lump sum cash payment based on the Common Stock's Fair Market Value on the day preceding the date of such payment.
     Payment of deferred Common Stock shall be made or, in the case of installments over a period of years, shall begin to be made, in the month following the date on which a Participant ceases to be a member of the Board, or such later date as may be necessary to comply with Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
15.3 Acceleration of Payment of Deferred Cash and Deferred Common Stock
     (a) In the event of a Participant's death or Permanent Disability, notwithstanding the Participant's elections made with respect to form of distribution under Section 15.1 and 15.2, the balance of the Participant's Memorandum Deferred Account shall be distributed in full as soon as practicable (but in no event later than thirty (30) days) following the Participant's death or Permanent Disability.
     (b) Subject to Section 409A, in case of an unforeseeable emergency, a Participant may request a distribution from the Participant's Memorandum Deferred Account earlier than the date to which it was deferred.
     For purposes of this Section 15.3(b), an "unforeseeable emergency" shall be limited to a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant's spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of the Code) of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant. The circumstances that will constitute an unforeseeable emergency will depend upon the facts of each case, but, in any case, amounts distributed with respect to an unforeseeable emergency may not exceed amounts necessary to satisfy such emergency, plus amounts necessary to pay
 
taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution, after taking into account the extent to which such hardship is or may be relieved: (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise or (ii) by liquidation of the Participant's assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship.
     The Committee shall consider any requests for payment on the basis of an unforeseeable emergency under this Section 15.3(b) on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis and in accordance with the standards of interpretation described in Section 457 of the Code and the regulations thereunder.
16.1 Issuance of Common Stock
     The Company shall not be required to issue any certificate for shares of Common Stock under the Plan prior to:
     (a) obtaining any approval or ruling from the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Internal Revenue Service or any other governmental agency which the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine to be necessary or advisable;
     (b) listing of such shares on any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may then be listed; and
     (c) completing any registration or other qualification of such shares under any federal or state laws, rulings or regulations of any governmental body which the Company, in its sole discretion, shall determine to be necessary or advisable.
     All certificates, or book-entry accounts, for shares of Common Stock delivered under the Plan shall also be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which Common Stock is then listed and any applicable federal or state securities laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates, or notations on such book-entry accounts, to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. The foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not be effective if and to the extent that the shares of Common Stock delivered under the Plan are covered by an effective and current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or if and so long as the Committee determines that application of such provisions are no longer required or desirable. In making such determination, the Committee may rely upon an opinion of counsel for the Company. Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by a Participant or other subsequent transfers by a Participant
 
of any shares issued under this Plan, including without limitation (i) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (ii) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by one or more Participants and (iii) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.
16.2 Unfunded Obligation
     Any amounts (deferred or otherwise) to be paid to Participants pursuant to the Plan are unfunded obligations. The Company is not required to segregate any monies from its general funds, to create any trusts or to make any special deposits with respect to this obligation. Beneficial ownership of any investments, including trust investments which the Company may make to fulfill this obligation, shall at all times remain in the Company. Any investments and the creation or maintenance of any trust or any Participant account shall not create or constitute a trust or a fiduciary relationship between the Committee or the Company and a Participant, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial interest in any Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary or the Participant's creditors in any assets of the Company whatsoever. The Participants shall have no claim against the Company for any changes in the value of any assets which may be invested or reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan.
16.3 Beneficiary
     The designation of a Beneficiary shall be on a form provided by the Company, executed by the Participant (with the consent of the Participant's spouse, if required by the Company for reasons of community property or otherwise), and delivered to a designated representative of the Company. A Participant may change his or her Beneficiary designation at any time. A designation by a Participant under a predecessor plan shall remain in effect under this Plan unless it is revoked or changed under this Plan. If no Beneficiary is designated, if the designation is ineffective, or in the event the Beneficiary dies before the balance of the Memorandum Deferred Account is paid, the balance shall be paid to the Participant's spouse, or if there is no surviving spouse, to his or her lineal descendants, pro rata, or if there is no surviving spouse or lineal descendants, to the Participant's legal representatives, the Participant's estate or the person or persons to whom the deceased's rights under the Plan shall have passed by will or the laws of descent and distribution (unless the Committee for a given year has designated investment in an annuity, in which case the payment options selected by the Participant with respect thereto shall govern).
16.4 Permanent Disability
     A Participant shall be deemed to have become "Permanently Disabled" if the Participant (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a
 
continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan of the Company.
16.5 Incapacity of Participant or Beneficiary
     If the Committee finds that any Participant or Beneficiary to whom a payment is payable under the Plan is unable to care for his or her affairs because of illness or accident or is under a legal disability, any payment due (unless a prior claim therefor shall have been made by a duly appointed legal representative), at the discretion of the Committee, may be paid to the spouse, child, parent, brother or sister of such Participant or Beneficiary or to any person whom the Committee has determined has incurred expense for such Participant or Beneficiary. Any such payment shall be a complete discharge of the obligations of the Company under the provisions of the Plan.
16.6 Nonassignment
     Unless otherwise provided in the Plan, the right of a Participant or Beneficiary to the payment of any Award granted under the Plan and the rights and privileges conferred thereby shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process and may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any manner (whether by operation of law or otherwise) other than by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution unless the Participant has received the Company's prior written consent. Except as otherwise provided for under the Plan, if any Participant attempts to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of any Award under the Plan or of any right or privilege conferred thereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or such Award, or suffers the sale or levy or any attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, all affected Awards held by such Participant shall be immediately forfeited.
16.7 Termination and Amendment
     Except as otherwise determined by the Board, the Committee may from time to time make such amendments to the Plan as it may deem proper and in the best interest of the Company, including, but not limited to, any amendment necessary to ensure that the Company may obtain any regulatory approval referred to above; provided, however, that to the extent required by applicable law, regulation or stock exchange rule, stockholder approval shall be required. Subject to Section 409A, the Board may at any time suspend the operation of or terminate the Plan. No amendment, suspension or termination may impair the right of a Participant or the Participant's designated Beneficiary to receive benefits accrued prior to the effective date of such amendment, suspension or termination.
 
16.8 Applicable Law
     The Plan shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.
16.9 Effective Date and Term of the Plan
     The Plan was adopted by the Board on February 12, 2008, and is subject to approval by the Company's stockholders. If approved by the stockholders, this Plan will replace the 1998 Director Stock Plan (as amended) and no further awards will be made under that plan. This Plan shall become effective on the Effective Date, and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Board to terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Section 16.7, until the date immediately preceding the tenth (10th) anniversary of the Effective Date of the Plan. No Awards shall be granted under this Plan after such date.
16.10 Compliance With Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act
     The Company's intention is that, so long as any of the Company's equity securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) or 12(g) of the Exchange Act, with respect to awards of Common Stock, the Plan shall comply in all respects with any exemption pursuant to Section 16(b) promulgated under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. If any Plan provision is later found not to be in compliance with such exemptions available pursuant to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, that provision shall be deemed modified as necessary to meet the requirements of Section 16(b).
16.11 Section 409A
     The Plan is intended to be administered, operated and construed in compliance with Section 409A and any guidance issued thereunder. Notwithstanding this or any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Board and the Committee may amend the Plan in any manner, or take any other action, that either of them determines, in its sole discretion, is necessary, appropriate or advisable to cause the Plan to comply with Section 409A and any guidance issued thereunder. Any such action, once taken, shall be deemed to be effective from the earliest date necessary to avoid a violation of Section 409A and shall be final, binding and conclusive on all Participants and other individuals having or claiming any right or interest under the Plan. With respect to any Award granted under the Plan that is subject to Section 409A, "cessation of service" or "ceasing to be a member of the Board" shall mean the Eligible Director's "separation from service", as defined in Section 1.409A-1(h) of the Final Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 409A, including the default presumptions thereunder.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused the Plan to be executed effective as of May 20, 2008.

Exhibit 10.3
Director Name Address Address
Dear Name:
It is my pleasure to confirm to you that on , you were granted ___deferred shares of Anadarko common stock and non-qualified stock options to purchase ___shares of Anadarko common stock pursuant to the provisions of the Company's 2008 Director Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). A copy of the Plan is attached for your reference.
                    
Your deferred shares will become payable to you within 30 days after the date you cease to be a director of the Company for any reason (including your retirement from the Board). The deferred shares will not be issued in your name, but will be held by the Company, either in book-entry form or by the Company's Executives and Directors Benefits Trust (the "Trust"), until they become transferable to you. Although you will not have beneficial ownership of the deferred shares until they are actually transferred to you, will have the opportunity to direct the voting of your deferred shares (which voting instructions the Trustee of the Trust may not follow, in its sole discretion) and such deferred shares will be counted toward your stock ownership requirements. You will also receive a cash payment equal to the cash dividends that are paid on the Company's common stock each quarter, with such cash amount to be paid within 30 days after the date that such dividends are paid to the Company's regular stockholders. You should note that the deferred shares held in the Trust are considered an unsecured obligation of the Company and any and all assets held in the Trust are subject to the general creditors of the Company. Your deferred shares are subject to the terms of the Plan (including the restrictions on transfer, assignment and pledge) and this letter.
Your options will vest at the rate of 100% on and have an exercise price equal to the closing stock price on of $___. Any unexercised stock options shall expire ten years from the date of grant, or on . Your stock options are subject to the terms of the Plan and this letter.
                    
                    
                    
Upon vesting, the Options may be exercised in whole or in part by filing a written notice with the Company's Corporate Secretary at its corporate headquarters. Such notice shall be in the form specified by the Company. Payments of all amounts due (e.g., Exercise Price and applicable withholding taxes) may be made either (i) in cash; (ii) in Common Stock (by either actual delivery of Common Stock or by attestation presenting satisfactory proof of beneficial ownership of such Common Stock) already owned; or (iii) any combination of cash and Common Stock. The Fair Market Value of such Common Stock as delivered shall be valued as of the closing sales price at which Common Stock is sold on the date of exercise, as reported in the NYSE-Composite Transactions by No Shares shall be issued or delivered until full payment of the Exercise Price and applicable withholding taxes, if any, has been made.
The Wall Street Journal.
 
Unexercised Options shall expire and be forfeited (without value) in the event you cease to be a director of the Company, unless otherwise provided below (provided that in no event may the options be exercised more than ten (10) years from the date of grant):
     (i) If you cease to be a director of the Company by reason of Retirement (as defined below), all unvested Options shall be forfeited and you (or, in the event of your death, your legal representative) may, within a period of not more than twenty-four (24) months after the date of such cessation, exercise vested Options if and to the extent they were exercisable on the date of cessation. "Retirement" for purposes hereof is defined as (i) 10 years of service as a director of the Company (ii) attainment of age 55 and five years service as a director of the Company, or (iii) attainment of age 65.
Retirement.
     (ii) If you cease to be a director of the Company by reason of death, any outstanding Options granted to you shall vest and be immediately exercisable with respect to all or any part of the Options which remain unexercised. Your legal representative or other person or persons to whom your rights under the Options shall pass to by will or the laws of descent and distribution, may, within a period of not more than twelve (12) months after the date of death, exercise the Options. In the event of your death after your cessation as a director, your legal representative will have the remaining exercise period awarded to you by your reason of cessation as provided in this letter or the Plan.
Death.
     (iii) If you cease to be a director of the Company by reason of Permanent Disability (as defined below), any outstanding Options granted to you shall vest and be immediately exercisable with respect to all or any part of the Options which remain unexercised. You (or, in the event of your death, your legal representative) may, within a period of not more than twenty-four (24) months after the date of your cessation as a director, exercise the Options. You shall be deemed to have become "Permanently Disabled" if you (i) are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) are, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan of the Company.
Permanent Disability.
     (iv) If you resign from the Company's Board of Directors, all unvested Options shall be forfeited and you (or, in the event of your death, your legal representative) may, within a period of not more than three (3) months after the effective date of such resignation, exercise vested Options.
Resignation from the Board of Directors.
The Options granted hereunder are not transferable except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Options are exercisable, during your lifetime, only by you. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the Options, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions hereof, or upon the levy of any attachment
 
or similar process upon the Options or any right or privilege conferred hereby, the Options and the right and privilege conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.
You shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares of common stock subject to the Options prior to the date you are issued a certificate or certificates for such shares, or until such shares are recorded on the books of the Company's stock transfer agent.
Please note that this letter serves as your notice of award and is for your personal files.
You are not required to sign and return any documents
.
For your personal records, we have enclosed a summary of all your stock option and deferred share grants as of .
                    
If you have any questions or concerns, please contact or .
                    
                    
                     
                    


