FILE:APC/APC-8K-20100618175914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
          On June 18, 2010, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release entitled "Anadarko Issues Statement." A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
          BP's potential gross negligence or willful misconduct may have a material impact on the Company's obligations under the terms of that certain Operating Agreement, dated October 1, 2009, between BP Exploration & Production Inc., as Operator, and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, as Non-Operator, as ratified by that certain Ratification and Joinder of Operating Agreement, dated December 17, 2009 by and among BP Exploration & Production Inc., Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (as Non-Operator), Anadarko E&P Company LP (as predecessor in interest to Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, which subsequently acquired Anadarko E&P Company LP's interest), and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC (collectively, the "Operating Agreement"). A copy of the Operating Agreement, which is referenced in the aforementioned press release, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
          In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including the exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized officer.
 

Exhibit 99.1
, June 18, 2010  Following this week's hearings in Washington regarding the tragedy, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC) issued the following statement:
HOUSTON
Deepwater Horizon
     "The events surrounding the Deepwater Horizon explosion represent a terrible loss for the families of those who lost their lives and an unprecedented environmental tragedy," Anadarko Chairman and CEO Jim Hackett said. "Sadly, it also continues to have tremendous impacts on the livelihoods of many Gulf Coast families and their communities. We, along with others in the industry, have continued to support the Unified Command in its response with technical expertise and specialized equipment.
     "The mounting evidence clearly demonstrates that this tragedy was preventable and the direct result of BP's reckless decisions and actions. Frankly, we are shocked by the publicly available information that has been disclosed in recent investigations and during this week's testimony that, among other things, indicates BP operated unsafely and failed to monitor and react to several critical warning signs during the drilling of the Macondo well. BP's behavior and actions likely represent gross negligence or willful misconduct and thus affect the obligations of the parties under the operating agreement," continued Hackett.
     Under the terms of the joint operating agreement (JOA) related to the Mississippi Canyon block 252 lease, BP, as operator, owed duties to its co-owners including Anadarko to perform the drilling of the well in a good and workmanlike manner and to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. The JOA also provides that BP is responsible to its co-owners for damages caused by its gross negligence or willful misconduct. Importantly, any actions Anadarko may take under the agreement to protect its rights relative to BP's performance as operator in the drilling of the well will in no way shift any financial burden
 
to the American taxpayer. Hackett also said, "We recognize that ultimately we have obligations under Federal law related to the oil spill, but will look to BP to continue to pay all legitimate claims as they have repeatedly stated that they will do."
     The operator of a well determines the detailed planning and execution of the well, and is responsible for the day-to-day activities of, and decisions executed by, personnel on the rig. Consistent with standard industry practice around the world, non-operating investors rely upon the operator to make the appropriate decisions on the rig.
     "BP's failures in the drilling of this well are not a reflection of the many tremendously skilled and committed individuals in our industry who work hard every day to deliver needed resources to America. We look forward to continuing to work with the Administration and our industry to identify further enhancements to the industry's operating procedures and practices, and to helping get the Gulf's dedicated workers back to work soon," Hackett said.
Donation of Oil Revenue
     Anadarko also announced that it will donate to charitable and civic agencies along the Gulf Coast any revenue it is entitled to receive from oil recovered from the clean-up efforts.
     "We hope donating these proceeds to the people of the Gulf Coast will help offset some of the hardships being experienced in so many ways by those living in the affected communities," said Hackett. "We are saddened by the loss of lives that occurred in this accident and the livelihoods that have been damaged by the spill. We continue to offer our prayers to the families of those lost and to all of those who are still suffering through this tragic event."
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the world's health and welfare. As of year-end 2009, the company had approximately 2.3 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies. For more information about Anadarko, please visit .
www.anadarko.com
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Anadarko believes
 
that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this news release, including the outcome of events in the Gulf of Mexico relating to the Macondo well incident and the company's ability to successfully defend its stated position under the joint operating agreement. Other factors that could impact the forward-looking statements are described in "Risk Factors" in the company's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 and other public filings and press releases. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak as of the date hereof. Anadarko undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Anadarko Contacts
John Christiansen, , 832.636.8736 Matt Carmichael, , 832.636.2845
Media
:
john.christiansen@anadarko.com
matt.carmichael@anadarko.com
John Colglazier, , 832.636.2306 Chris Campbell, CFA, , 832.636.8434 Dean Hennings, , 832.636.2462
Investors
:
john.colglazier@anadarko.com
chris.campbell@anadarko.com
dean.hennings@anadarko.com

Exhibit 99.2
WHEREAS, BP Exploration & Production Inc. ("BP"), as Operator, and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC ("MOEX"), as Non-Operator, are parties to that certain Operating Agreement dated October 1, 2009 (the "Operating Agreement"), covering an offshore Gulf of Mexico block ("Block") and lease ("Lease") described on Exhibit "A", attached hereto and made a part hereof; and
WHEREAS, BP, Anadarko E&P Company LP ("AEP"), and Anadarko Petroleum Corporation ("APC") executed that certain Lease Exchange Agreement dated October 1, 2009, covering the Block and Lease (the "LEA Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to such LEA Agreement, AEP and APC have been assigned, and BP, AEP, and APC have executed, certain Assignments of Record Title Interest (the "Assignments") dated effective October 1, 2009, ("Effective Time"), covering the Lease; and
WHEREAS, said LEA Agreement and Assignments stipulated that the record title interest so assigned to AEP and APC in the Lease would be subject to the Operating Agreement; and
WHEREAS, BP, AEP, and APC desire to eliminate any ambiguity as to the applicability of the Operating Agreement governing the Lease.
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, AEP and APC do hereby ratify, confirm, and adopt and join the Operating Agreement effective as of the Effective Time, subject to the following working interest ownership percentages of the Lease by BP, MOEX, AEP, and APC:
Ratification and Joinder of Operating Agreement Macondo Prospect BP / MOEX / AEP / APC
 
Executed this 17 day of Dec, 2009, but effective as of the Effective Time.
th
Ratification and Joinder of Operating Agreement Macondo Prospect BP / MOEX / AEP / APC
 
Ratification and Joinder of Operating Agreement Macondo Prospect BP / MOEX / AEP / APC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          This Agreement, effective as of October 1, 2009 (the "Effective Date"), is between BP Exploration & Production Inc. ("BP") and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC ("MOEX"), the signers of this Agreement, each referred to individually as a "Party" and collectively as the "Parties."
          Whereas the Parties own one or more Leases, identified in Exhibit "A" and desire to explore, appraise, develop, and operate the Leases for the production of Hydrocarbons;
(Description of Leases),
          Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and mutual promises in this Agreement, the Parties agree to explore, appraise, develop, and operate the Contract Area under the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) the type of Production System, for example, tension leg well jacket floating production system, is to be changed; or
(b) the number of well slots of the Production System is to be changed by at least twenty-five percent (25%); or
(c) the type of Hydrocarbon transmission system is changed (for example, pipeline versus barge); or
(d) the initial daily production processing capacity of the Facilities is to be changed by at least twenty-five percent (25%); or
(e) the number of Development Wells is to be increased or decreased by at least twenty percent (20%); or
(f) in the case of a tieback to an Offsite Host Facility or a pre-existing Development System, the gathering and pipeline system necessary to transport the Hydrocarbons from the wellheads to an Offsite Host Facility or a pre-existing Development System, as provided in the Development Plan, is to be changed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To calculate the balance of Hydrocarbon Recoupment each Party, who bears a portion of the Non-Participating Interest Share, shall maintain the balance of the Hydrocarbon Recoupment attributable to the Non-Participating Interest Share borne by that Party and shall advise the Operator and Non-Participating Parties when Complete Recoupment has been reached.
 
then within thirty (30) days after notice of the occurrence of an event described in clause (a), (b), or (c), a Non-Participating Party in the first Exploratory Well or its substitute well, as applicable, shall execute and deliver an assignment of all of its right, title, and interest in the Contract Area, free of all Lease Burdens as defined in Article 19.1 , effective on the date actual drilling operations for the well are commenced, to the Participating Parties in the first Exploratory Well or its substitute well, as applicable, with no reimbursement by and at no Cost to those Participating Parties. If an assignment is made under this Article 16.2.1, then each Participating Party shall accept its Participating Interest Share, as determined under Article 8.4 , of the Non-Participating Party's assigned interest. The Non-Participating Party's Election or Vote not to participate in the first Exploratory Well shall be deemed a withdrawal under Article 17 , and the Parties shall be subject to Article 17 . After the satisfaction of Article 16.2.1(a), (b), or (c), a Non-Consent Operation performed in the first Exploratory Well's well bore or its substitute's well bore, as applicable, shall not be subject to this Article 16.2.1 but shall be subject to the Hydrocarbon Recoupment premium provided in Article 16.5.1.1 , except as provided in Article 16.4 .
(Burdens on
Hydrocarbon Production)
(Participation by Fewer Than All Parties)
(Withdrawal From Agreement)
(Withdrawal From Agreement)
(Non-Consent Exploratory Operations at Objective Depth)
(Non-Consent Operations to Maintain Contract Area)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that is conducted as a Non-Consent Operation and discovers a new Producible Reservoir or extends an existing Producible Reservoir (as the Producible Reservoirs existed at the time the Development Operation was proposed), each Non-Participating Party shall satisfy Hydrocarbon Recoupment from
 
 
However, only upon Complete Recoupment does a former Non-Participating Party become a Participating Party in the Non-Consent Operation.
 
 
Interest Share of that payment. For purposes of calculating the slot usage fee, the total Cost of the Production System shall be reduced by (0.41667%) per month, commencing on the date the Production System was installed and continuing every month thereafter until the month actual drilling operations on that well is commenced; however, the total Cost of the Production System shall not be reduced by more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total Production System's costs. The Cost of additions to the Production System shall be reduced in the same manner commencing the first month after the addition is installed.
If that well is abandoned, having never produced Hydrocarbons, the right of the Participating Parties in that well to use the Production System slot through which the well was drilled shall terminate unless those Parties commence drilling a substitute well for the abandoned well through the same slot within ninety (90) days of the abandonment. If that substitute well is abandoned, having never produced Hydrocarbons, the right of the Participating Parties in that well to use the Production System slot through which the well was drilled shall terminate.
The slot usage fee shall not apply to a slot deemed to be "surplus." A slot may be deemed surplus only by the unanimous agreement of the owners of the Production System.
 
the Facilities shall be reduced by (0.41667%) per month, commencing from the date when the Facilities were installed and continuing every month thereafter until the first month during which production from the Non-Consent Operation commences, but the total Cost of the Facilities shall not be reduced more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total Facilities' Cost. If a modification, expansion, or addition to the Facilities is made after commencing first production and before connection of the Non-Consent Operation to the Facilities, the Facilities investment shall be reduced in the same manner described above, from the month in which the Facilities modification, expansion, or addition is completed until the first month during which production from the Non-Consent Operation is commenced.
 
 
one or more Overinvested Parties participate until the amount of the Underinvestment is eliminated.
 
 
conclusion of the thirty (30) day joining period, each of the Remaining Parties shall submit to the Operator a written rejection or acceptance of its Participating Interest Share of the Withdrawing Party's and Other Withdrawing Parties' Working Interest. Failure to make that written rejection or acceptance shall be deemed a written acceptance. If the Remaining Parties are unable to select a successor Operator, if applicable, or if a Remaining Party submits a written rejection and the other Remaining Parties do not agree to accept one hundred percent (100%) of the Withdrawing Party's and Other Withdrawing Parties' Working Interest within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the forty-eight (48) hour period to submit a written rejection or acceptance, the Remaining Parties will be deemed to have joined in the withdrawal, and Article 17.2.1 will apply.
(Unanimous Withdrawal)
 
 
 
 
Participating Interests of the non-abandoning Parties in the Equipment. That assignment shall be effective as of the date of the abandoning Party's response to the Equipment abandonment proposal. The abandoning Party shall assume and be liable for all obligations pertaining to the Equipment, except liability for payments under this Article 18.2, prior to the effective date of its assignment to the non-abandoning Parties. The abandoning Party shall not assume and be liable for any obligations pertaining to the Equipment, except liability for payments under this Article 18.2, as of the effective date of its assignment to the non-abandoning Parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Operator shall charge the Joint Account with the following items:
 
 
[X] shall be charged to the Joint Account
For those assigned for less than 12 consecutive months shall not be chargeable unless agreed to by the Parties.
[X] shall be charged to the Joint Account
Notwithstanding the foregoing, relocation costs that result from reorganization or merger of a Party shall not be chargeable to the Joint Account.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Operator is responsible for Joint Account Material and shall make proper and timely charges and credits for direct purchases, transfers, and dispositions. The Operator normally provides all Material for use in the conduct of Joint Operations but does not warrant the Material furnished. Except as otherwise provided in Section IV, Paragraph 4.A., Material may be supplied by Non-Operators at the Operator's option.
 
Transportation costs should be added to the Material transfer price based on one of the following:
 
 
 
The Operator shall maintain records of Controllable Material charged to the Joint Account as defined in the most recent COPAS Material Classification Manual, with sufficient detail to perform the physical inventories requested unless directed otherwise by the Non-Operators.
Adjustments to the Joint Account by the Operator resulting from a physical inventory of jointly owned Controllable Material shall be made within six months following the taking of the inventory or receipt of Non-Operator inventory. Charges and credits for overages or shortages will be valued for the Joint Account based on the Condition "B" prices in effect on the date of physical inventory as determined in accordance with Section IV, Paragraph 2.A. and 2.B. unless the inventorying Parties can prove another Material condition applies.
 
1) BP Exploration and Production Technology (EPT) Group, or equivalent
 
 
A. Operator may, under COPAS Accounting Guideline 25 ("Allocation of Rig Related Expenditures"), charge the Joint Account an allocated portion of any drillship or rig related commissioning and/or modification costs pursuant to the provisions of Section II, Paragraph 6 above, provided such drillship or rig related commissioning and/or modification costs are not included in the drillship or rig rate charged by the drilling contractor. Costs to be charged shall include all commissioning costs charged by the vendor and all costs (both onsite and offsite) incurred by the Operator, contractors or Affiliates to oversee the construction, modification and transportation of a rig including, but not limited to, their salaries and wages, personal expenses and support costs.
B. Operator may charge the Joint Account an allocated portion of the cost of the Onshore Drilling Center (ODC) or equivalent. This center is located offsite of the Joint Property with technology to plan, design, monitor, advise, and control a well or wells on a real time/on-line basis. The center will be used for planning, designing, drilling, re-drilling, side-tracking, or deepening, and/or completing a well, plug-back or work-over operations, plugging and abandonment. This center's costs will be charged pursuant to the provisions of Section II, Paragraph 6. Such charges shall include, but are not limited to, the following: facilities, communications, computers, software, system support, and ODC personnel provided by the Operator, contract services, or Affiliates.
C. Operator may charge the Joint Account an allocated portion of the cost of the Advanced Collaborative Environment Onshore Communication Facility (ACE), or equivalent, for communicating with field operations and optimizing well performance and reducing field operating expenses on a real time/online basis. This center's costs will be charged pursuant to the provisions of Section II, Paragraph 6 and COPAS Model Form Interpretation 44 (Field Computer and Communication Systems). Such charges shall include, but are not limited, to the following: facilities, communications, computers, software, system support, and ACE personnel provided by the Operator, contract services, or Affiliates.
D. Operator may charge the Joint Account an allocated portion of the cost of the Preservation and Maintenance Facility (PMF), or equivalent. This facility will be used to secure, preserve and maintain Gulf of Mexico non-warehouse materials for drilling and completions, wells, operations and subsea projects. The facility's costs will be charged pursuant to the provisions of Section II, Paragraph 6.
 
I. OVERVIEW
     A. Arbitration as used in this statement is a procedure whereby an Arbitrator resolves any claim(s), controversy(ies) or dispute(s) (the "Dispute") between BP Exploration & Production Inc. and MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC (hereinafter referred to singularly as "Party" and collectively as "Parties"), involving more than $500,000.00, arising out of, relating to, or in connection with that certain Operating Agreement effective October 1, 2009, by and between the Parties (hereinafter "Agreement") including the interpretation, validity, termination or breach thereof.
Description and Goals.
     (i) The arbitration process is binding on the Parties and this arbitration is intended to be a final resolution of any Dispute between the Parties as described above, to the same extent as a final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. Each Party hereby expressly covenants that it shall not resort to court remedies except as provided for herein, and for preliminary relief in aid of arbitration.
Binding.
     (ii) A Party shall pay all legal and court costs incurred by the other Party in connection with the enforcement of the final resolution of any Dispute under this Dispute Resolution Procedure, if such other Party is successful in its enforcement efforts. Suits, actions or proceedings in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted in a federal court of proper jurisdiction and pursuant to Title IX of the United States Code. Each Party waives any option or objection which it may now or thereafter have to the laying of the venue in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such court in any such suit, action or proceeding. If such court after the
Violation.
 
institution of an action hereunder should decline jurisdiction, then the action may be commenced in any court, including state courts having jurisdiction.
     B. The Parties shall inform one another promptly following the occurrence or discovery of any item or event, which might reasonably be expected to result in a Dispute in connection with the Agreement. The Parties will attempt to resolve satisfactorily any such matters.
Duty to Negotiate.
     C. Should a Dispute arise which the Parties cannot resolve satisfactorily, either Party may deliver to the other Party a written notice of the Dispute with supporting documentation as to the circumstances leading to the Dispute (the "Notice of Dispute"). Unless otherwise provided herein, all such notices shall be served in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement. The Parties, within ten (10) Business Days from delivery of a Notice of Dispute, shall then each appoint a management representative ("Management Representative") who has no prior direct involvement with the subject matter of the Notice of Dispute and who is duly authorized to investigate, negotiate and settle the Dispute. For a period not to exceed ninety (90) days following the appointment of the Management Representatives, the Management Representatives for each Party shall meet and confer as often as they deem reasonably necessary, in good faith negotiations, to try to resolve the Dispute amicably.
Notice of Unresolved Dispute.
II. ARBITRATION PROCESS
     A. If the Parties are unable to resolve the Dispute within ninety (90) days following the end of the negotiation period between the Management Representatives described in I.C., or such additional time as may be mutually agreed upon, the matter shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the procedures set forth below.
Arbitration.
     B. Either Party may initiate the arbitration by delivering to the other a Notice of Intention to Arbitrate.
Initiation of Arbitration.
     C. Except as expressly provided herein, the arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with procedures that are mutually
Governing Procedures.
 
acceptable to the Parties, including limited depositionless discovery and the presentation of live witness testimony, subject to cross examination, at the arbitration hearing.
     D. There shall be a panel of three (3) Arbitrators, each of whom must be experienced in the oil and gas industry and knowledgeable about or specializing in the subject matter involved in the Dispute the ("Panel"). The Panel shall be chosen as follows: within thirty (30) days after the delivery of a Notice of Intention to Arbitrate, each Party shall select one person to act as one of the three arbitrators. The two arbitrators selected by the Parties shall select a third arbitrator within thirty (30) days of their appointment. If the arbitrators selected by the Parties are unable or fail to agree on a third arbitrator within the second thirty (30) day period, or any mutually agreed upon extended period, then the Parties shall, within three (3) business days after expiration of the second thirty (30) day period or extended period, apply to the American Arbitration Association for the appointment of a third Arbitrator for or on behalf of the Parties. In such case the Arbitrator appointed by the American Arbitration Association shall meet the criteria set forth in this Section II.D. The Parties intend the involvement of the American Arbitration Association to be limited to appointing a third arbitrator in the event the arbitrators selected by the Parties are unable to do so; the Parties do not intend for the American Arbitration Association to manage the arbitration or to participate further in the arbitration process, unless the Parties mutually agree to further participation by the Association.
Arbitrator.
     (i) Any Arbitrator, prior to his or her appointment, shall disclose to the Parties all actual or perceived conflicts of interest and business relationships involving the Dispute or the Parties, including but not limited to, any professional or social relationships, present or past, with any Party (or its
Conflicts.
 
affiliates), including any Party's (or its affiliates) directors, officers, and supervisory personnel and counsel. If an Arbitrator is appointed by the American Arbitration Association pursuant to Section II.D, any Party may challenge in writing the appointment of the Arbitrator for lack of independence, partiality, or any other cause likely to impair such Arbitrator's ability to effectively participate in the proceedings or render a fair and equitable decision. Where such challenge is made, the American Arbitration Association shall uphold or dismiss the challenge. In the event a challenge is upheld, the Arbitrator shall be replaced, and the replacement will be selected in the same manner as the original Arbitrator was selected. If an Arbitrator resigns or becomes unable or unwilling to continue to serve as an Arbitrator for any reason, a replacement shall be selected in the same manner as that Arbitrator was chosen.
     (ii) When more than two Parties are involved in the Dispute ("Multi-Party Arbitration"), all Parties identifying as "Claimants" (those delivering a Notice of Intention to Arbitration under Section II.B.) shall select a single Arbitrator and all those Parties identifying as "Respondents" (those responding to a Notice of Intention to Arbitration delivered under Section II.B.) shall select a single Arbitrator. The Arbitrator selected by the Claimant(s) and the Arbitrator selected by the Respondent(s) shall select the third Arbitrator pursuant to Section II.D. If Claimants or Respondents cannot agree as to the choice of their Arbitrator within the said thirty (30) days, they may, within three (3) business days after written notice to the other Parties, apply to the American Arbitration Association for the appointment of an Arbitrator as provided in Section II.D.
Multi-Party Arbitrations.
     (iii) The Panel shall actively manage the proceedings so as to make the proceedings expeditious, economical, and less burdensome and adversarial than litigation.
Management of the Arbitration.
     E. All documents, briefs, testimony, transcripts, as well as all Arbitrator decisions shall be confidential. Likewise, the views, suggestions,
Confidentiality.
 
admissions, proposals, and other information exchanged in the arbitration are confidential and are inadmissible in any other proceeding.
     F. The Parties shall each pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred by their Party-selected Arbitrator and shall share equally all costs, fees and expenses incurred by the third Arbitrator and any other incidental costs incurred in connection with the arbitration proceeding. Each Party is solely responsible for its own attorneys' fees and expenses incurred in the Arbitration.
Costs and Expenses.
     G. Within thirty (30) days after the selection of the Panel, each Party shall provide the Panel with a short and plain submission defining the issues to be decided and the nature of the relief that the Panel may award (the "Submission"). This Submission shall explicitly authorize the Panel to decide these issues. If the Parties are unable to reach consensus as to the issues involved, the Panel in its sole discretion shall frame the issues through a reasonable procedure. The Panel will render decisions on the specific issues established and shall fashion any remedy that the Panel deems appropriate so long as that remedy is consistent with the Parties' Submissions hereunder. Any money judgment entered by the Panel shall be payable in U.S. dollars.
Submissions.
     H. The presentations and argument at the arbitration hearing will be transcribed for the benefit of the Panel and the Parties.
Transcriptions.
     I. Commencing thirty (30) days after the receipt of the opposing Party's Submission, each Party may serve upon the other Party up to ten (10) requests for the production of documents, including sub-parts. The requests shall be made in good faith and not be served for the purpose of delay or harassment. Each request shall describe the type of document(s) sought and each request shall be limited to documents that are relevant to a claim or defense in the Arbitration proceeding, or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The requests need not be served all at once but may be served in stages.
Discovery.
 
     (i) The Party served with a request under this provision shall provide the adverse Party with copies of the requested documents, and identify the request to which each document is responsive, within twenty (20) business days of the receipt of the request, or such longer time as may be agreed to by the Parties or set by the Panel. If the Party served with a request objects to the production of any of the requested documents, it shall nevertheless produce within the permitted time all documents responsive to any request that is not objected to by that Party.
     (ii) A Party that is served with a request may challenge the propriety of the request within the time permitted for response by a short written objection, which shall be forwarded to the adverse Party and to the Panel. The adverse Party shall submit its response, if any, to the objecting Party and the Panel within five (5) business days of receipt of the objection. The Panel shall consider the request, the objection, and the response, if any, and decide whether the production shall be allowed or denied or whether the request should be modified within ten (10) days after the submission of the adverse Party's response.
     J. No later than twenty-five (25) days prior to the date that the arbitration hearing is to begin, each Party will submit to the Panel and serve on the other Party a written position statement. The original statement of each Party shall not exceed thirty-five (35) typewritten letter-size pages. Each Party shall have the right to submit reply statements no later than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the arbitration hearing. Such reply statements shall not exceed twenty (20) typewritten letter-size pages.
Presentations.
 
     (iii) Each Party shall make an oral and/or documentary presentation of its position at the arbitration hearing in such order and in accordance with the time schedule established by the Panel. The Panel may question each of the presenters and/or witnesses during or following any and all presentations.
     K. The Panel shall promptly (within sixty (60) days of conclusion of the presentations at the arbitration hearing or such longer period as the Parties may mutually agree) determine the claims of the Parties and render a final decision in writing. The decision shall state with specificity the findings of fact and conclusions of law on which it rests. The decision rendered by the Panel may be enforced in accordance with Section I.A.(ii), above, and may only be appealed pursuant to Section II. L. below. The decision shall be served upon each of the Parties by facsimile transmission and by overnight mail.
Decision and Award.
     (i) If applicable law allows pre-award interest, the Panel may, in its discretion, grant pre-award interest and, if so, such interest may be at commercial rates in the state chosen by the Parties pursuant to Section II.C.(i) during the relevant period. The Panel shall not award consequential, punitive, indirect or other non-compensatory damages.
     (ii) Within ten (10) days of receipt of the award either Party may submit a Motion to Modify the award. A response to the Motion to Modify shall be due within fifteen (15) days thereafter, and the Panel shall rule thereon within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the response.
     (iii) Judgment on the award may be entered in the United States District Court for the federal district within which the arbitration hearing was held
 
at any time within one year after the decision is made. If such court after the institution of an action hereunder should decline jurisdiction, then the action may be commenced in any court, including state courts having jurisdiction.
     L. The Parties agree that an award made by the Panel may only be vacated or confirmed by a federal court of proper jurisdiction as established above. If such court after the institution of an action hereunder should decline jurisdiction, then the action may be commenced in any court, including state courts having jurisdiction. The Parties agree that an award made by the Panel may be vacated by a court only if the award was procured by or through fraud or corruption. An appeal from an order or judgment pursuant to this Section II.L. shall be instituted in a federal court of proper jurisdiction. If such court after the institution of an action hereunder should decline jurisdiction, then the action may be commenced in any court, including state courts having jurisdiction. Each Party waives any option or objection which it may now or thereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of the court in any such suit, action or proceeding. Each Party agrees that a remedy at law for a violation of this Section II.L. may not be adequate and therefore agrees that the remedies of specific performance and injunctive relief shall be available in the event of any violation in addition to any other right or remedy at law or in equity to which any Party may be entitled.
Vacation of Award and Appeal.
     M. To the extent permitted by law, any decision of the Panel shall not be or have any binding effect in any unrelated litigation or arbitration where any Party to this Agreement may also be a party.
Res Judicata.
res judicata
 
Health, Safety and Environmental Management Systems
Health, Safety and Environmental Reporting
 
Health Administration (OSHA), Minerals Management Service (MMS), or United States Coast Guard (USGC), whichever is applicable]. In addition to opportunities to review data through audits, Operator will, upon request, furnish HSE performance information upon the completion of the well and be amenable to a timely meeting with Non-Operators specifically to review and discuss HSE performance applicable to this Operating Agreement.
     
Health, Safety and Environmental Inspections
For purposes of conducting health, safety and environmental inspection, the Non-Operators shall have the right of access to activities and operations and shall have access to Operator's HSE files as provided for in this Operating Agreement. The notable exceptions are a) may implicate privacy issues, b) is covered by an enforceable legal privilege, or c) can otherwise be protected under laws and legal principles involving confidentiality or secrecy. Operator will cooperate fully in these health, safety and environmental inspections.
Non-Operator's Right of Access:


