FILE:APC/APC-8K-20100803170306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Earliest Event Reported: August 3, 2010
ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORPORATION
(Address of principal executive offices including Zip Code)
1201 Lake Robbins Drive
The Woodlands, Texas 77380-1046
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 - 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
Anadarko Announces Second-Quarter Results
Raises Sales-Volumes Guidance While Reaffirming Capital
Receives Commitments for New Five-Year Credit Facility
HOUSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 3, 2010--Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC) today announced a second-quarter 2010 net loss attributable to common stockholders of $40 million, or $0.08 per share (diluted). These results include certain items typically excluded by the investment community in published estimates. In total, these items decreased net income by approximately $284 million, or $0.57 per share (diluted) on an after-tax basis.Cash flow from operating activities in the second quarter of 2010 was $1.566 billion, and discretionary cash flow totaled $1.278 billion.
(1)
(2)
SECOND-QUARTER 2010 HIGHLIGHTS
Increased quarterly sales volumes by 6 percent over second-quarter 2009
Reduced lease operating expenses per unit by 15 percent over second-quarter 2009
Announced successful appraisal results in the Gulf of Mexico and Ghana
Achieved significant growth in shale programs
Continued to advance sanctioned mega projects on time and on budget
During the second quarter, Anadarkos diverse portfolio continued to deliver upon our operating and strategic objectives with increased sales volumes, improved cost management and margins, continued drilling success onshore and offshore, and significant gains in drilling efficiencies, Anadarko Chairman and CEO Jim Hackett said. Because of the companys strong and consistent portfolio performance, we are increasing full-year production guidance for the second time this year, while maintaining initial capital guidance. We now expect sales volumes to be in the range of 232 million to 236 million BOE (barrels of oil equivalent), representing an increase of 5 to 7 percent over 2009.
OPERATIONS UPDATE
During the second quarter of 2010, Anadarko increased sales volumes by approximately 6 percent over the second quarter of 2009. This performance was primarily driven by the companys Marcellus, Eagleford and Haynesville shale plays, which are achieving critical mass, along with significant production increases from the liquids-rich areas of the companys Rockies position.
Second-quarter 2010 sales volumes of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids totaled 59 million BOE, or 651,000 BOE per day. Second-quarter 2010 natural gas sales volumes averaged approximately 2.3 billion cubic feet per day. Oil sales volumes in the second quarter averaged 198,000 barrels per day and natural gas liquids sales volumes averaged 66,000 barrels per day.
Prior to the federally mandated deepwater drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico, the company continued to achieve positive drilling results, with successful appraisal wells in the Lucius and Vito fields. As previously announced, the second Lucius appraisal well encountered more than 650 net feet of oil pay in three zones, with one additional target yet to be tested. Anadarko operates Lucius with a 50-percent working interest. Also during the quarter, the second Vito appraisal well was drilled approximately one mile to the southwest of the original discovery. Drilling was halted due to the moratorium, prior to reaching the main objectives; however, the well encountered approximately 250 net feet of pay in a shallower Miocene reservoir. Anadarko holds a 20-percent working interest in Vito, which is operated by Shell Offshore Inc.
In West Africa, the Mahogany #5 appraisal well encountered 75 net feet of pay in Jubilee-equivalent sands. This was the final well in the East Jubilee appraisal area in the West Cape Three Points Block, where Anadarko holds a 30.9-percent working interest. Subsequent to the end of the second quarter, Anadarko and partners announced another significant discovery in the Deepwater Tano Block at the Owo prospect. The Owo-1 well encountered approximately 174 net feet of high-quality oil pay. The discovery continues to enhance the gross resource potential of the West African Cretaceous trend, where Anadarko holds an interest in more than 8 million gross acres spanning four countries offshore waters. The company plans to continue its active exploration and appraisal program of this trend through 2010 and 2011.
MEGA PROJECTS UPDATE
The companys three sanctioned mega projects remain on schedule and on budget. The floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel arrived in Ghana at the Jubilee field in June and is now moored on location. The well completion program is under way, and Jubilee Phase I remains on track to deliver first production toward the end of this year. The Caesar/Tonga development program in the Gulf of Mexico also is on schedule for first production during the first half of 2011. Subsea facilities installation is under way, and all major topsides lifts were completed during the second quarter. Well completion activities are expected to begin, subject to regulatory approvals. The El Merk project in Algeria is approximately 50 percent complete, with startup expected to occur in late 2011.
Kwame Nkrumah
DEEPWATER HORIZON EVENT UPDATE
During the second quarter, the Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico, in which Anadarko holds a 25-percent non-operating interest, discovered hydrocarbon accumulations. During suspension operations, the well blew out, an explosion occurred on the drilling rig and the rig sank, resulting in the deaths of 11 crew members and the release of hydrocarbons into the Gulf. As previously stated, Anadarko believes that, based on the publicly available information, testimonies and investigations to date, this tragedy was preventable and likely the result of the operators gross negligence and/or willful misconduct. A more detailed description of the potential liabilities related to this event are included in the companys second-quarter 2010 report on Form 10-Q that will be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Deepwater Horizon
LIQUIDITY UPDATE
Anadarkos producing assets continued to generate significant cash flow, and the company ended the quarter with approximately $3.4 billion of cash on hand. In addition, the company today announced it has received new bank commitments from a group of lenders led by J.P. Morgan for an aggregate $6.5 billion. The new commitments include a $5.0 billion senior secured five-year credit facility, which will replace the companys existing $1.3 billion credit facility, and a $1.5 billion senior secured six-year term loan, which will be used to refinance approximately $1.3 billion of debt currently scheduled to mature in 2012.
Our financial position is very strong, said Hackett. We generated discretionary cash flow of approximately $1.3 billion during the second quarter, and todays announcement of new bank facilities further enhances our liquidity position. We believe this action is prudent in order to extend the maturity date of our credit facilities, replace near-term maturing debt, provide the ability to finance our ongoing business needs, and protect the interests of all of our stakeholders by providing ample access to additional capital, should the need arise.
CONFERENCE CALL AT 9 A.M. CDT, 10 A.M. EDT
TOMORROW
Anadarko will host a conference call on Wednesday, Aug. 4, at 9 a.m. Central Daylight Time (10 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time) to discuss second-quarter results, current operations and the companys outlook for the remainder of 2010. The dial-in number is 888.680.0878 in the United States or 617.213.4855 internationally. The confirmation number is 39759023. For complete instructions on how to participate in the conference call, or to listen to the live audio webcast and slide presentation, please visit . A replay of the call will also be available on the Web site for approximately 30 days following the conference call.
www.anadarko.com
ANADARKO OPERATIONS REPORT
For more details on Anadarkos operations, please refer to the comprehensive report on second-quarter activity. The report will be available at on the Investor Relations page.
www.anadarko.com
FINANCIAL DATA
Nine pages of summary financial data follow, including current hedge positions, financial guidance and supplemental production guidance.
Anadarko Petroleum Corporations mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the worlds health and welfare. As of year-end 2009, the company had approximately 2.3 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the worlds largest independent exploration and production companies. For more information about Anadarko, please visit .
www.anadarko.com
See the accompanying table for details of certain items affecting comparability.
(1)
See the accompanying table for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures and a statement indicating why management believes the non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information for investors.
(2)
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. While Anadarko believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions as and when made, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this news release, including the following: the outcome of events in the Gulf of Mexico relating to the Macondo well; the Companys ability to successfully defend its stated position under the Macondo joint operating agreement; the impact of the deepwater drilling moratorium and resulting legislative and regulatory changes on the Companys Gulf of Mexico and International offshore operations; Anadarkos ability to achieve its production targets, successfully manage its capital expenditures and to complete, test and produce the wells and prospects identified in this news release; and Anadarkos ability to close on the $5.0 billion senior secured revolving credit facility that matures in five years and a $1.5 billion senior secured term-loan facility that matures in six years for which the Company has received commitments. Other factors that could impact the forward-looking statements are described in Risk Factors in the companys 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and other public filings and press releases. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Anadarko undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
CONTACT: John Christiansen, 832.636.8736 or Matt Carmichael, 832.636.2845 or John Colglazier, 832.636.2306 or Chris Campbell, CFA, 832.636.8434 or Dean Hennings, 832.636.2462
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation
MEDIA
:
john.christiansen@anadarko.com
matt.carmichael@anadarko.com
INVESTORS
:
john.colglazier@anadarko.com
chris.campbell@anadarko.com
dean.hennings@anadarko.com


