FILE:APC/APC-8K-20110131173143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On January 31, 2011, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (Anadarko) announced fourth-quarter and full-year 2010 financial and operating results. The press release is included in this report as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference. This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, and is not incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
, Jan. 31, 2011  Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC) today announced that net income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders totaled $111 million, or $0.22 per share (diluted), for the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2010. These results include certain items affecting comparability that are typically excluded by the investment community in published estimates. In total, these items decreased net income by approximately $34 million, or $0.07 per share (diluted), on an after-tax basis.
HOUSTON
(1)
Cash flow from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2010 was $1.315 billion, and discretionary cash flow totaled $1.298 billion.
(2)
For the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, Anadarko reported net income from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders of $761 million, or $1.52 per share (diluted). Full-year 2010 cash flow from continuing operations was $5.247 billion, and discretionary cash flow totaled $5.380 billion.
(2)
2010 H
IGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
"2010 was a year of very strong performance with record sales volumes, above-target reserve growth and industry-leading exploration results  each of which surpassed the guidance we provided in March  while spending approximately $200 million less capital than originally projected," said Anadarko Chairman and CEO Jim Hackett. "Additionally, we strengthened the balance sheet by completing several transactions that enhanced liquidity and significantly extended near-term debt maturities, and had approximately $3.7 billion of cash on hand at year end. We are positioned to deliver upon the strategic plan we laid
out last March to achieve a five-year 7- to 9-percent production CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) and surpass 3 billion BOE of proved reserves by year-end 2014."
Full-year 2010 sales volumes of natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids (NGLs) totaled a record 235 million BOE, or 643,000 BOE per day, which was 6.5 million BOE higher than the midpoint of the original sales-volumes guidance provided at the March 2010 Investor Conference. This represents an approximate 7-percent increase over full-year 2009 sales volumes of 220 million BOE. Fourth-quarter 2010 sales volumes of natural gas, crude oil and NGLs totaled 56 million BOE, or 608,000 BOE per day.
Anadarko added 359 million BOE of proved reserves in 2010, including 29 million BOE from price revisions, and incurred costs of approximately $5.036 billion associated with its oil and natural gas exploration and development activities.
(
2)
The company estimates its proved reserves at year-end 2010 totaled 2.42 billion BOE, with approximately 69 percent of its reserves in the proved developed category and approximately 31 percent categorized as proved undeveloped. At year-end 2010, Anadarko's product mix of proved reserves was made up of approximately 56 percent natural gas and 44 percent liquids.
2010 W E D H
ORLDWIDE
XPLORATION
AND
EVELOPMENT
IGHLIGHTS
Anadarko's record production of 235 million BOE was primarily driven by an 11-percent increase in sales volumes from the Rocky Mountain region, growth in the company's liquids-rich plays and accelerated activity in the Marcellus shale. With existing infrastructure and service agreements in place, Anadarko has established itself as the largest producer in the Eagleford Shale with current gross production of approximately 27,000 BOE per day. The midstream expansion in the Marcellus Shale during the fourth quarter of 2010 enabled the company to nearly double its gross daily sales volumes from the end of the third quarter to approximately 330 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) at the end of the year, while being carried on its capital costs through the joint-venture agreement announced earlier in the year.
"The success of Anadarko's worldwide exploration program, coupled with the results of our evaluation and development activity in the U.S. onshore, has continued to add differentiating value for shareholders," continued Hackett. "Our offshore exploration drilling program achieved a success rate of approximately 60 percent, while also continuing to safely advance existing deepwater discoveries toward potential future development, with a 100-percent success rate on a total of nine appraisal wells
 
in 2010. In addition to these industry-leading results, the further evaluation and development of our Marcellus and Eagleford shale programs  where we amassed large fairway acreage positions at attractive costs in the early stages of exploration  enabled us to establish a net risked resource potential of 1.5 billion BOE in these two major growth areas."
In Mozambique, Anadarko announced three world-class natural gas discoveries at Windjammer, Barquentine and Lagosta  each of which was ranked among the top five discoveries offshore Africa in 2010, according to IHS Energy. As a result of the success, Anadarko and its partners have begun evaluating various commercialization options and expect to keep at least one rig in the area to advance an appraisal program and continue exploration activities. In West Africa, the company announced its second discovery offshore Sierra Leone at the Mercury prospect. Anadarko, along with partners, is advancing plans to drill three to five exploration and appraisal wells across the company's 5 million gross acres offshore Sierra Leone, Liberia and Cote d'Ivoire in 2011. Offshore Ghana, Anadarko and its partners achieved first oil from the world-class Jubilee field in a record 3.5 years following discovery. Also offshore Ghana, Anadarko and its partners continued a successful appraisal program in the adjacent Tweneboa and Enyenra (formerly Owo) fields and expect to submit a development plan to the Ghanaian government in 2011.
Anadarko will provide more information regarding its 2011 capital program and longer-term outlook on Feb. 24, 2011, when it holds an extended conference call and portfolio discussion. The company will provide additional details and dial-in instructions for the call later this month.
C C
ONFERENCE
ALL
T
OMORROW
9 .. CST, 10 .. EST
AT
A
M
A
M
Anadarko will host a conference call on Tuesday, Feb. 1, at 9 a.m. Central Standard Time (10 a.m. Eastern Standard Time) to discuss fourth-quarter and year-end results. The dial-in number is 888.679.8034 in the United States or 617.213.4847 for international calls. The confirmation number is 98549147. For complete instructions on how to participate in the conference call, or to listen to the live audio webcast and slide presentation, please visit . A replay of the call will also be available on the Web site for approximately 30 days following the conference call.
www.anadarko.com
A O R
NADARKO
PERATIONS
EPORT
For more details on Anadarko's operations, please refer to the comprehensive report on fourth-quarter 2010 activity. The report will be available at on the Investor Relations page.
www.anadarko.com
 
F D
INANCIAL
ATA
Seven pages of summary financial data follow, including current hedge positions, proved reserves and costs incurred.
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the world's health and welfare. As of year-end 2010, the company had approximately 2.42 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies. For more information about Anadarko, please visit .
www.anadarko.com
(1)
See the accompanying table for details of certain items affecting comparability.
(2)
See the accompanying table for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures and a statement indicating why management believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information for investors.
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Anadarko believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this news release, including Anadarko's ability to finalize year-end reserves and complete and commercially operate the drilling prospects identified in this news release. See "Risk Factors" in the company's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other public filings and press releases. Anadarko undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors: Effective Jan. 1, 2010, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved, probable and possible reserves that meet the SEC's definitions for such terms. Anadarko uses certain terms in this news release, such as "net risked resource potential," and similar terms that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit Anadarko from including in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Anadarko's Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, File No. 001-08968, available from Anadarko at www.anadarko.com or by writing Anadarko at: Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, 1201 Lake Robbins Drive, The Woodlands, Texas 77380, Attn: Investor Relations. This form may also be obtained by contacting the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
A C
NADARKO
ONTACTS
M:
EDIA
John Christiansen, , 832.636.8736
john.christiansen@anadarko.com
Matt Carmichael, , 832.636.2845
matt.carmichael@anadarko.com
:
I
NVESTORS
John Colglazier, , 832.636.2306
john.colglazier@anadarko.com
Dean Hennings, , 832.636.2462
dean.hennings@anadarko.com
 
 
* For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, before-tax unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives, net includes $82 million related to commodity derivatives, $267 million related to other derivatives, and $7 million related to gathering, processing and marketing sales.
 
 
 
 
Below are reconciliations of cash provided by operating activities (GAAP) to discretionary cash flow and free cash flow (non-GAAP), and net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders (GAAP) to adjusted net income (loss) (non-GAAP) as required under Regulation G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The company uses discretionary cash flow and free cash flow to demonstrate the company's ability to internally fund capital expenditures and to service or incur additional debt. It is useful in comparisons of oil and gas exploration and production companies because it excludes fluctuations in assets and liabilities. The company uses adjusted net income (loss) to evaluate the company's operational trends and performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Presented below are reconciliations of costs incurred (GAAP) to oil and gas exploration and development costs (non-GAAP) and total debt (GAAP) to net debt (non-GAAP). Management believes oil and gas exploration and development costs is a more accurate reflection of the expenditures incurred during the current year, excluding certain obligations to be paid in future periods. Management uses net debt as a measure of the company's outstanding debt obligations that would not be readily satisfied by its cash and cash equivalents on hand.
 
 
 
* For the quarter ended December 31, 2010, oil and gas transportation and other expenses include $18 million related to idle rig costs in the Gulf of Mexico. For the year ended December 31, 2010, oil and gas transportation and other expenses include $27 million related to idle rig costs and $19 million of rig termination fees related to contracted deepwater drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.
 
 
 
Note: After applying relevant accounting guidance to the facts, as they are known to the Company today, the Company's liability accrual for the Deepwater Horizon event continues to be zero. Please refer to the Company's report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on November 1, 2010, for additional disclosure and information surrounding the treatment of this item.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


