FILE:APC/APC-8K-20111017070056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 16, 2011, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary Anadarko E&P Company LP (collectively "Anadarko") entered into a settlement agreement, mutual releases and agreement to indemnify (the "Settlement Agreement") with BP Exploration & Production Inc. ("BPXP") pursuant to which the parties agreed to mutually release all claims against each other associated with the event and subsequent oil spill which commenced on April 20, 2010 (the "event").
Deepwater Horizon
Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, Anadarko agreed to pay $4.0 billion in cash to BPXP and to transfer its 25-percent interest in Mississippi Canyon block 252 (Macondo) to BPXP (subject to any required governmental approvals to the transfer), and BPXP agreed to release its claims against Anadarko for approximately $6.1 billion of outstanding invoices received to date, as well as to forego reimbursement for all future costs related to the event. In addition, BPXP has agreed to fully indemnify Anadarko for damage claims, and as fully described below BP Corporation North America Inc. ("BPCNA") and BP plc have agreed to guarantee such indemnification, arising under the Oil Pollution Act, claims for natural resource damages and associated damage-assessment costs, and any claims arising under the relevant joint operating agreement; provided, however, that the Settlement Agreement does not provide for indemnification by BPXP against fines and penalties, punitive damages or certain other claims, none of which Anadarko considers to represent a material financial risk to it.
Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, BPCNA has agreed to act as sole guarantor of the obligations of BPXP arising under the Settlement Agreement; provided, however, that in the event that the net worth of BPCNA declines below an agreed-upon amount, BP plc shall become the sole guarantor of such obligations. Anadarko has agreed to transfer to BPXP all of its rights to third-party claims arising out of or related to the event, excluding claims or rights of Anadarko or its affiliates under Anadarko's insurance policies. To the extent that BPXP receives value in the future from claims that it has asserted or could assert against third parties arising from or relating to the event, BPXP has agreed to make cash payments (not to exceed $1.0 billion in the aggregate) to Anadarko, on a current and continuing basis, of 12.5% of the aggregate value received by BPXP in excess of $1.5 billion. Anadarko expects to receive in excess of $163 million of net proceeds from its insurance providers. Anadarko will record a $4.0 billion liability associated with the settlement in its financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. Anadarko will remit the settlement amount to BPXP within 45 days and plans to fund such payment with a combination of cash on hand and borrowings under its $5.0 billion credit facility (the "5.0 billion Facility"). According to its public filings, BP plc has recorded a charge in excess of $40 billion for total estimated costs associated with the event. To date, BPXP has invoiced Anadarko an aggregate of $6.1 billion for what BPXP considers to be Anadarko's 25-percent proportionate share of BPXP's actual and near-term costs.
Anadarko and BP plc (or its affiliates) ("BP") have, from time to time, entered into, and expect in the future to continue to enter into, arm's-length third-party operational relationships. Other than such relationships, there are no material relationships between Anadarko and BP.
On October 17, 2011, Anadarko issued a press release regarding the Settlement Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
For a description of the material terms of the $5.0 billion Facility, please see the Current Report on Form 8-K of Anadarko, as filed on September 8, 2010, which such description is incorporated by reference herein. The information set forth under Item 1.01 above hereby is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS
, Oct. 17, 2011  Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (NYSE: APC) today announced an agreement with BP to settle all of BP's current and future claims against Anadarko associated with the Deepwater Horizon event.
HOUSTON
Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Anadarko agrees to pay $4.0 billion to BP, and both parties have agreed to mutually release claims against each other. As part of this agreement, BP will release its claims against Anadarko for approximately $6.1 billion of outstanding invoices received to date, as well as to forego reimbursement for any future costs related to the event. In addition, BP will fully indemnify Anadarko for damage claims arising under the Oil Pollution Act, claims for natural resource damages and associated damage-assessment costs, and any claims arising under the relevant Joint Operating Agreement. Anadarko also will transfer its 25-percent interest in Mississippi Canyon block 252 (Macondo) to BP.
"This settlement agreement with BP is the right action for our stakeholders, as it removes significant uncertainty regarding future liabilities and associated risks," Anadarko Chairman and CEO Jim Hackett said. "With this issue resolved, we believe focus will return to the tremendous value embedded in our asset base and the company's operational and exploration success that have been under-valued during the last 18 months. Importantly, BP has committed to use the funds to pay the claims of individuals and entities affected by the Deepwater Horizon event."
According to its public filings, BP has recorded a charge in excess of $40 billion for total estimated costs associated with the event. To date, BP has invoiced Anadarko an aggregate of $6.1 billion for what BP considers to be Anadarko's 25-percent proportionate share of BP's actual and near-term costs.
"The settlement amount, equivalent to approximately $5 per share after tax, eliminates all significant exposure to historical and future claims," said Hackett. "Though the agreement does not provide indemnification against fines and penalties, punitive damages or certain other potential claims, we do not consider these items to represent a significant financial risk to Anadarko. This confidence stems from recent court decisions that released Anadarko from punitive damages and personal injury claims, combined with the findings of various investigations that have confirmed the company had no direct involvement in the drilling of the Macondo well."
Anadarko will record a $4.0 billion liability associated with this settlement in its third-quarter 2011 financials. The company will remit the settlement amount to BP within 45 days and plans to fund the payment with a combination of cash on hand and drawing down funds from its $5.0 billion credit facility. Anadarko expects to receive in excess of $163 million of net proceeds from its insurance providers and plans to repay borrowings under its credit facility with a portion of the proceeds from a possible monetization of its Brazilian subsidiary. The company expects to open a data room for its Brazilian properties later this year, with anticipated closing of a sale in 2012, subject to the terms achieving the company's desired value thresholds and regulatory approval.
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation's mission is to deliver a competitive and sustainable rate of return to shareholders by exploring for, acquiring and developing oil and natural gas resources vital to the world's health and welfare. As of year-end 2010, the company had approximately 2.42 billion barrels-equivalent of proved reserves, making it one of the world's largest independent exploration and production companies. For more information about Anadarko, please visit .
www.anadarko.com
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Anadarko believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this news release, including Anadarko's ability to successfully monetize select assets, collect insurance proceeds, draw on its secured credit facility, reduce debt, defend itself against any remaining claims (including, but not limited to, fines, penalties and punitive damages) and BP's ability to fulfill its indemnification obligations to Anadarko. See "Risk Factors" in the company's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other public filings and press releases. Anadarko undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
A C
NADARKO
ONTACTS
:
M
EDIA
John Christiansen, , 832.636.8736
john.christiansen@anadarko.com
:
I
NVESTORS
John Colglazier, , 832.636.2306
john.colglazier@anadarko.com
Clay Gaspar, , 832.636.2541
clay.gaspar@anadarko.com
Wayne Rodrigs, , 832.636.2305
wayne.rodrigs@anadarko.com


