FILE:APC/APC-8K-20120521151838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The proposals voted upon at the 2012 Annual Meeting and the final voting results are indicated below. For additional information on these proposals, please see the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2012.
1. Each of the twelve nominees for director was elected to serve a one-year term expiring at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Votes regarding the persons elected as directors were as follows:
 
2. The appointment of KPMG LLP as the Company's independent auditor for 2012 was ratified. The voting results were as follows:
 
3. The stockholders approved the Company's 2012 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan. The voting results were as follows:
 
4. The stockholders approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation for the Company's named executive officers. The voting results were as follows:
 
5. A stockholder proposal regarding adoption of a policy providing that the Chairman of the Board be an independent director did not pass. The voting results were as follows:
 
6. A stockholder proposal regarding an amendment to the Company's Non-Discrimination Policy did not pass. The voting results were as follows:
 
7. A stockholder proposal regarding adoption of a policy on accelerated vesting of equity awards did not pass. The voting results were as follows:
 
8. A stockholder proposal regarding a report on political contributions did not pass. The voting results were as follows:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


