FILE:FFIV/FFIV-8K-20050720161147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 20, 2005, F5 Networks, Inc. issued a press release regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended June 30, 2005. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c)     Exhibits:
     99.1     Press Release of F5 Networks, Inc. announcing quarterly earnings dated July 20, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
For the third quarter of fiscal 2005, F5 Networks announced revenue of $73.1 million, up 8 percent sequentially over revenue of $67.7 million in the second quarter and 65 percent over revenue of $44.2 million in the third quarter a year ago. Net income for the quarter was $14.0 million ($0.35 per diluted share), compared to $12.1 million ($0.31 per diluted share) in the prior quarter of fiscal 2005.
SEATTLE, WAJuly 20, 2005
For the third quarter of fiscal 2004 the company reported net income of $7.4 million ($0.20 per diluted share). However, during the fourth quarter of 2004, F5 became subject to income taxes on U.S. income, and to present the results for prior periods on a tax-affected basis that is comparable to the current period, the company's financial statements include pro forma earnings for the third quarter of fiscal 2004. On a pro forma basis, net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2004 would have been $4.9 million ($0.13 per diluted share) if the company had recorded a comparable provision for income taxes.
"During the third quarter, the company's revenue growth reflected strong demand for our products in Europe and North America," said John McAdam, F5 president and chief executive officer. "Compared to the prior quarter, revenue grew 19 percent in Europe and 25 percent in North America. Year over year, revenue in Europe and North America increased 78 percent and 69 percent respectively. The strength in these regions and solid performance in Asia-Pacific more than offset a slowdown in Japan that is typical of Japan's first fiscal quarter."
With continued revenue growth, stable gross margins, and further improvement in its expense ratio, the company's operating margin was 27 percent in the third quarter, up from 16 percent in the third quarter of last year. Record cash flow of $21.2 million from operations contributed to a quarter-end balance of $329 million in cash and investments, a net increase of $36 million during the quarter.
 
F5 Networks Announces Fiscal Third Quarter Results
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, ending September 30, McAdam said management has set a revenue target of $76 million to $78 million. Effective July 1, the company has voluntarily adopted the provisions of SFAS 123R, which would have required it to begin expensing the cost of stock-based compensation in the quarter beginning October 1. Accordingly, McAdam said, earnings for the fourth quarter are expected to be $0.29 to $0.30 per diluted share, including the charge for stock-based compensation. Excluding the compensation charge, the anticipated earnings range would have been $0.37 to $0.38 per diluted share. A reconciliation of the company's expected GAAP and pro forma earnings is provided in the following table:
About F5 Networks
F5 enables organizations to successfully deliver business-critical applications and gives them the greatest level of agility to stay ahead of growing business demands. As the pioneer and global leader in Application Traffic Management, F5 continues to lead the industry by driving more intelligence into the network to deliver advanced application agility. F5 products ensure the secure and optimized delivery of applications to any user  anywhere. Through its flexible and cohesive architecture, F5 delivers unmatched value by dramatically improving the way organizations serve their employees, customers and constituents, while lowering operational costs. The company is headquartered in Seattle, Washington with offices worldwide. For more information go to www.f5.com.
Forward Looking Statements
Statements in this press release concerning revenue and earnings targets for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others: customer acceptance of our new traffic management and security offerings; the timely development, introduction and acceptance of additional new products and features by F5 or its competitors; competitive pricing pressures; increased sales discounts; F5's ability to sustain, develop and effectively utilize distribution relationships; F5's ability to attract, train and retain qualified product development, marketing, sales, professional services and customer support personnel; F5's ability to expand in international markets;
 
F5 Networks Announces Fiscal Third Quarter Results
and the unpredictability of F5's sales cycle. F5 has no duty to update any guidance provided or other matters discussed in this press release. More information about potential risk factors that could affect F5's business and financial results is included in the Company's annual report on Form 10K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 


