FILE:FFIV/FFIV-8K-20051031165629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02     Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
(c)         On October 25, 2005, F5 Networks, Inc. ("F5") announced the promotion of Andy Reinland, 41, to the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Finance Officer, and John Rodriguez, 45, to the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. These two newly created positions will be responsible for the functions and organizations previously managed by the office of Chief Financial Officer, which has been vacant since August 2005. As Senior Vice President and Chief Finance Officer, Mr. Reinland will be responsible for F5's financial planning and analysis functions, and will also oversee F5's investor relations and information technology operations. As Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, Mr. Rodriguez will be responsible for F5's worldwide accounting operations, financial, accounting and SEC reporting; he will also oversee F5's human resources department and corporate facilities. Each of these promotions is effective as of October 25, 2005.
     Mr. Reinland joined F5 in 1998, serving as Director of Finance until January 1, 2004, and more recently as Vice President of Finance. As Vice President of Finance, Mr. Reinland reported to F5's Chief Financial Officer and was primarily responsible for F5's financial planning and forecasting.
     Mr. Rodriguez joined F5 as Controller in 2001, and was promoted to Vice President and Controller in January 1, 2004. In his most recent position, he has been responsible for the performance of all international and domestic accounting and reporting functions for F5. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Rodriguez served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CyberSafe, a security software solutions provider, where he was responsible for the performance of the company's international and domestic accounting functions and financial reporting activities.
     Mr. Reinland will continue to be an at-will employee at an annualized base salary of $173,800. As part of his promotion, Mr. Reinland is eligible for annual bonus compensation of up to $52,140 awarded quarterly upon achievement of F5's top and bottom line objectives, which amount has been increased from his prior annual bonus target of $34,760. Mr. Rodriguez will continue to be an at-will employee at an annualized base salary of $180,730. As part of his promotion, Mr. Rodriguez is eligible for annual bonus compensation of up to $54,219 awarded quarterly upon achievement of F5's top and bottom line objectives, which amount has been increased from his prior annual bonus target of $32,860.
     In connection with these promotions, each of Messrs. Reinland and Rodriguez will receive a one-time grant of 5,000 restricted stock units ("RSUs") under the terms of F5's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. These RSUs will vest quarterly over two years. Messrs. Reinland and Rodriguez will each continue to receive customary executive benefits, including health, dental, vision, 401(k) and vacation benefits.
 
     A copy of the press release F5 issued on October 25, 2005 announcing the promotion of Messrs. Reinland and Rodriguez is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01         Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)       Exhibits
The information in this report shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore or hereafter filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such information is superseded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into such registration statement.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 31, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
-F5 Networks, Inc. (NASDAQ: FFIV) today announced that Andy Reinland and John Rodriguez have been promoted to the rank of senior executive with individual responsibility for functions and organizations formerly managed by the company's chief financial officer.
SEATTLE, WA-October 25, 2005
As senior vice president and chief finance officer, Reinland will assume responsibility for financial planning and analysis, investor relations and information technology. Rodriguez, as senior vice president and chief accounting officer, will be responsible for worldwide accounting, reporting, human resources and corporate operations. Both have held senior positions in the company's finance department for over four years and have played key roles in shaping and managing the company's financial organization and business infrastructure.
Reinland joined F5 in 1998, serving as director of finance and most recently vice president of finance. In that capacity he reported to the company's chief financial officer and held primary responsibility for F5's financial planning and forecasting and for providing direct financial support to the company's business functions. Prior to joining F5, Reinland was chief financial officer for RTIME, Inc., a developer of real-time 3D software for Internet applications, which was acquired by Sony.
Rodriguez joined the company as corporate controller in 2001. In his most recent position as vice president and corporate controller, he has been responsible for the performance of all international and domestic accounting and reporting functions, including SEC compliance. Before coming to F5, Rodriguez was vice president and chief financial officer of CyberSafe, a security solutions company and senior director of finance and operations at Lucent Technologies. Prior to that, he held senior accounting positions in two other Seattle-area high tech companies.
Both Reinland and Rodriguez began their careers as CPA's in public accounting.
John McAdam, F5 president and chief executive officer, said that after an exhaustive national search for a candidate to replace the company's former chief financial officer, the decision to divide responsibility for managing the finance department between Reinland
 
and Rodriguez was an easy one. "For the past four years, Andy and John have worked collaboratively to build an efficient and highly effective finance organization that has been instrumental in driving F5's growth and profitability. As head of planning and analysis, Andy has played a key role in shaping a business model that has enabled the company to more than double our revenue during the past two years and post consecutive quarterly improvements in profitability. In his role as corporate controller, John has had primary responsibility for all regulatory and compliance issues, including worldwide implementation of Sarbanes-Oxley, and for managing F5's cash and investments, which increased to $350 million in the fiscal year just ended. In their former roles, they worked closely with me and all the members of our executive team. In their new positions as members of that team, I'm confident they will provide both the leadership and support necessary to drive F5's continuing growth and improving profitability."
About F5 Networks
F5 enables organizations to successfully deliver business-critical applications and gives them the greatest level of agility to stay ahead of growing business demands. As the pioneer and global leader in Application Traffic Management, F5 continues to lead the industry by driving more intelligence into the network to deliver advanced application agility. F5 products ensure the secure and optimized delivery of applications to any user  anywhere. Through its flexible and cohesive architecture, F5 delivers unmatched value by dramatically improving the way organizations serve their employees, customers and constituents, while lowering operational costs. The company is headquartered in Seattle, Washington with offices worldwide. For more information go to http://www.f5.com/.


