FILE:FFIV/FFIV-8K-20060420160550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 20, 2006, F5 Networks, Inc. issued a press release regarding its financial results for the second quarter ended March 31, 2006. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The attached press release presents certain financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation expense which would otherwise be required by GAAP. We believe providing these measures exclusive of the impact of stock-based compensation expense, both on a historical basis and with respect to the our guidance, allows investors to compare results and expected results with results for prior periods that did not include stock-based compensation expense. Our management uses these various non-GAAP measures to monitor and evaluate ongoing operating results and trends and to gain an understanding of our comparative operating performance.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information presented in compliance with GAAP, and non-GAAP financial measures we report may not be comparable to similarly titled items reported by other companies. We have provided reconciliation between our GAAP measures and our non-GAAP measures in the press release.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits: 99.1 Press Release of F5 Networks, Inc. announcing quarterly earnings dated April 20, 2006.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
For the second quarter of fiscal 2006, F5 Networks announced revenue of $94.1 million, up 7 percent from $88.1 million in the prior quarter and 39 percent from $67.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. Net income was $16.1 million ($0.39 per diluted share), compared to $15.2 million ($0.37 per diluted share) in the prior quarter and $12.1 million ($0.31 per diluted share) in the second quarter a year ago.
SEATTLE, WAApril 20, 2006
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the company began expensing stock-based compensation. To facilitate a comparison of this quarter's results with the results of prior quarters, the company is presenting pro forma net income for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2006. Excluding stock compensation expense, net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 was $20.3 million ($0.49 per diluted share) compared to pro forma net income $19.0 million ($0.47 per diluted share) in the prior quarter.
A reconciliation of reported net income to pro forma net income is included on the attached Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
F5 president and chief executive officer John McAdam said revenue during the second quarter grew sequentially in all international regions and across all product categories, including the company's security offerings and its recently acquired WAN optimization and application acceleration products. "As expected, we saw strong growth in Japan, which achieved its highest quarterly revenue to date. In addition, both EMEA and Asia Pacific delivered solid sequential growth.
"The one area where we saw marked softness during the quarter was in our North American business, which was down sequentially due to a slowdown in our US Federal business during the last few weeks of the quarter. Excluding US Federal revenue, North American revenue was up sequentially from the prior quarter."
 
During the third quarter, McAdam said he expects continued sequential growth tempered by seasonal softness that characterizes the first quarter of Japan's fiscal year. Accordingly, management has set a revenue target of $96 million to $98 million and an earnings target of $0.40 to $0.41 per diluted share, including charges for stock-based compensation. Excluding the compensation charges, the anticipated earnings range is expected to be $0.50 to $0.51 per diluted share. A reconciliation of the company's expected reported and pro forma earnings is provided in the following table:
About F5 Networks
F5 Networks is the global leader in Application Delivery Networking. F5 provides solutions that make applications secure, fast, and available for everyone, helping organizations get the most out of their investment. By adding intelligence and manageability into the network to offload applications, F5 optimizes applications and allows them to work faster and consume fewer resources. F5's extensible architecture intelligently integrates application optimization, protects the application and the network, and delivers application reliability  all on one universal platform. The company is headquartered in Seattle, Washington with offices worldwide. For more information, go to .
www.f5.com
Forward Looking Statements
Statements in this press release concerning revenue and earnings target ranges, with and without the charge for stock-based compensation, and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others: customer acceptance of our new traffic management, security, application delivery and WAN optimization offerings; the timely development, introduction and acceptance of additional new products and features by us or our competitors; competitive pricing pressures; increased sales discounts; our ability to sustain, develop and effectively utilize distribution relationships; our ability to attract, train and retain qualified product development, marketing, sales, professional services and customer support personnel; our ability to expand in international markets and the unpredictability of our sales cycle.
 
We have no duty to update any guidance provided or other matters discussed in this press release. More information about potential risk factors that could affect our business and financial results is included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 


