FILE:FFIV/FFIV-8K-20081020155330.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
Our board of directors amended sections 3.3 and 3.4 of our bylaws, effective October 17, 2008, to provide for majority voting in non-contested elections of our directors. In contested elections, plurality voting continues to apply. A copy of the amendment is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
3.1 Amendment to sections 3.3 and 3.4 of the Bylaws of F5 Networks, Inc.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
Sections 3.3 and 3.4 of the Bylaws of F5 Networks, Inc. are amended and restated in their entirety as follows:
     3.3 ELECTION. At each annual shareholders' meeting the shareholders shall elect the directors to hold office until the next annual meeting of the shareholders and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. If, for any reason, the directors shall not have been elected at any annual meeting, they may be elected at a special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose in the manner provided by these Bylaws.
     Except as provided in Section 3.4 and in this paragraph, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast. A majority of votes cast means that the number of shares cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director. The following shall not be votes cast: (a) a share whose ballot is marked as withheld; (b) a share otherwise present at the meeting but for which there is an abstention; and (c) a share otherwise present at the meeting as to which a shareholder gives no authority or direction. In a contested election, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast. A contested election is one in which the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected.
     The following procedures apply in a non-contested election. A nominee who does not receive a majority vote shall not be elected. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, an incumbent director who is not elected because he or she does not receive a majority vote shall continue to serve as a holdover director until the earliest of (a) ninety (90) days after the date on which an inspector determines the voting results as to that director pursuant to RCW 23B.07.035(2); (b) the date on which the Board of Directors appoints an individual to fill the office held by such director, which appointment shall constitute the filling of a vacancy by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 3.4; or (c) the date of the director's resignation. Any vacancy resulting from the non-election of a director under this Section 3.3 may be filled by the Board of Directors as provided in Section 3.4. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee will consider promptly whether to fill the office of a nominee failing to receive a majority vote and make a recommendation to the Board of Directors about filling the office. The Board of Directors will act on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation and within ninety (90) days after the certification of the shareholder vote will disclose publicly its decision. Except as provided in the next sentence, no director who failed to receive a majority vote for election will participate in the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee recommendation or Board decision about filling his or her office. If no director receives a majority vote in an uncontested election, then the incumbent directors (a) will nominate a slate of directors and hold a special meeting for the purpose of electing those nominees as soon as practicable, and (b) may in the interim fill one or more offices with the same director(s) who will continue in office until their successors are elected.
 
     3.4 VACANCIES. Unless otherwise provided by the Washington Business Corporation Act, in case of any vacancy in the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors or non-election of a director pursuant to Section 3.3, the remaining directors, whether constituting a quorum or not, may fill the vacancy.


