FILE:FFIV/FFIV-8K-20100408151812.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On April 5, 2010, F5 Networks, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Second Amended and Restated Lease Agreement with CLPF-Elliott West, L.P. ("Amended Lease Agreement") extending the term of the Amended and Restated Office Lease Agreement dated April 3, 2000 through July 2022. Pursuant to the Amended Lease Agreement, the Company has the right to occupy or sublease up to approximately 300,000 square feet of office space in the Elliott West project (Buildings 351, 401 and 501 on Elliott Avenue West) in Seattle, Washington.
     The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Amended Lease Agreement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.39 to the Current Report on Form 8-K and which is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.39
 
          This Second Amended and Restated Office Lease Agreement (the "") amends and restates in its entirety that certain Amended and Restated Office Lease Agreement, dated April 3, 2000, for premises located at 401 Elliott West, Seattle, Washington, and as further amended by that First Amendment to Amended and Restated Lease, dated September 30, 2004.
Lease
 
          .     
j
Rent Adjustment(s):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that JOHN RODRIGUEZ is the person who appeared before me, and said persons acknowledged that they signed this instrument, on oath stated that they were authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the SVP and CAO on behalf of F5 Networks to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.
     GIVEN under my hand and notarial seal this 25 day of March, 2010.
th
     I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that MICHAEL J. DUFFY is the person who appeared before me, and said persons acknowledged that they signed this instrument, on oath stated that they were authorized to execute the instrument and acknowledged it as the Authorized Signatory on behalf of CLPF-Elliott West to be the free and voluntary act of such party for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.
     GIVEN under my hand and notarial seal this 5 day of April, 2010.
th
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARCEL A:
Lots 1 and 2, Block 156, Supplemental Plat of Seattle Tidelands, in King County, Washington, as shown on the official maps on file in the Office of the Commissioner of Public Lands at Olympia, Washington; except that portion thereof lying within the railroad right of way.
PARCEL B:
Lots 3, 4, 5 and 6, Block 156, and Lots 1 and 2, Block 157, Supplemental Plat of Seattle Tidelands, in King County, Washington, as shown on the official maps on file in the Office of the Commissioner of Public Lands at Olympia, Washington; except that portion thereof lying within the railroad right of way.
TOGETHER WITH all that portion of Portland Street lying between Block 156 and Block 157, vacated by Ordinance Number 57725 of the City of Seattle; except that portion of said vacated street as conveyed to Northern Pacific Railroad Company for a right of way by deed recorded under Recording Number 3777400, lying Southwesterly of the following described line:
Beginning at a point in the Southeasterly line of Lot 2, Block 158, Map of Seattle Tidelands, filed with the Board of State Land Commissioners at Olympia on March 15, 1895, a distance of 1.75 feet Northeasterly from the Southmost corner of said Lot 2; thence Northwesterly to a point in the Southeasterly line of Block 156, Map of Seattle Tidelands, filed with the Board of State Land Commissioners at Olympia on March 15, 1895, a distance of 2.57 feet Northeasterly from the Southmost corner of said Block 156.
PARCEL C:
Lots 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, Block 158, Supplemental Plat of Seattle Tidelands, in King County, Washington, as shown on the official maps on file in the Office of the Commissioner of Public Lands at Olympia, Washington; except that portion thereof lying within railroad right of way.
Together with that portion of West Harrison Street vacated by Ordinance Number 119174, of the City of Seattle and recorded under Recording Number 9811210440.
PARCEL D:
The vacated portion of West Republican Street lying between Lot 7 in Block 155, SEATTLE TIDE LANDS, and Lot 1, Block 156, SEATTLE TIDE LANDS, and between Elliott Avenue West and Railroad Avenue West, except the Northern Pacific Railroad Company's right-of-way.
 
 
This Exhibit D is a supplement to Section 37 of the certain lease (the "Lease") between 401 Elliott West LLC (the "Landlord") and F5 Networks, Inc. (the "Tenant"). This Exhibit further clarifies the criteria for the signage provided for in Section 37 of the Lease. As stated in the Lease, Tenant shall have the following signage opportunities. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event that Tenant subleases a portion of the Premises, Tenant may offer its signage rights under this Lease to the subtenant, provided that such subtenant occupies at least two full floors of the respective Building. The criteria for these signs is more specifically delineated as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Buildings will be serviced five (5) days per week in the following areas: Corridors, Elevators, Entry, Hallways, Lobby, Lunch Rooms, Coffee Stations, Office Cubicles, Office Suites, Parking, Restrooms and Stairways.
SERVICE SPECIFICATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
F5 Networks, Inc. (hereinafter called "Tenant") and CLPF Elliott West, LP (hereinafter called "Landlord") are executing simultaneously with this Tenant Work Letter (the "Work Letter") a Second Amended and Restated Lease (the "Lease") for space in the buildings known as 401 Elliott West, Seattle, Washington 98119. As further consideration to entering into the Lease, Landlord and Tenant mutually agree to the following terms and conditions.
 
 
          The term "Landlord Delay" shall mean those construction events within the reasonable control of Landlord (i.e. excluding force majeure and actions for which Landlord is not responsible under this Exhibit F) to the extent such event causes a material and unexpected interference with Tenant's construction of the Tenant Refurbishment and Tenant Improvement Work and resulting delay in substantial completion of the Tenant Refurbishment and Tenant Improvement Work.
 
          Tenant shall make commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate the effect of any event that would otherwise cause Landlord Delay, provided that Tenant shall not be required to expend additional funds to mitigate Landlord Delay unless Landlord agrees in writing to reimburse Tenant for such costs.
 
 
 
 
     is made as of , 20, by CLPF-Elliott West, LP (""), and F5 Networks, Inc.(""), who agree as follows:
This Declaration of Commencement Date
                    
     
Landlord
Tenant
1. Landlord and Tenant entered into that certain Second Amended and Restated Office Lease Agreement dated , 2010 (the ""), in which Landlord leased to Tenant and Tenant leased from Landlord certain Premises described therein and located in the Project known as 401 Elliott West in Seattle, Washington. All capitalized terms herein are as defined in the Lease.
     
Lease
2. Pursuant to the Lease, Landlord and Tenant hereby confirm the following matters as of the Commencement of the Term:
c. The provisions of this Declaration of Commencement Date shall inure to the benefit of, or bind, as the case may require, the parties and their respective successors and assigns, subject to the restrictions on assignment and subleasing contained in the Lease, and are hereby attached to and made a part of the Lease.
 


