FILE:FFIV/FFIV-8K-20100913161811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
5.02(d)  On September 9, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of F5 Networks, Inc. (the "Company") elected John Chapple as a Class I director. In connection with his services as a director, Mr. Chapple will be entitled to the customary compensation arrangements for the Company's non-employee directors; an annual retainer in the amount of $40,000, $1,500 for each in-person board meeting, $750 for each telephonic board meeting, $1,000 for each in-person committee meeting and $750 for each telephonic committee meeting. In addition, Mr. Chapple will be awarded 2,089 restricted stock units ("RSUs") under the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, which grant shall be issued on November 1, 2010, and would fully vest on the day prior to the annual meeting of shareholders for fiscal year 2010. No arrangement or understanding exists between Mr. Chapple and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director.
On September 13, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Chapple's election. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 13, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 (NASDAQ: FFIV), the global leader in Application Delivery Networking, today announced the appointment of John Chapple, President of Hawkeye Investments LLC, to its board of directors. Chapple brings over 25 years of experience in the wireless communications and cable television industries to this position.
SEATTLE, SEPTEMBER 13, 2010
F5 Networks, Inc.
"John's successful track record, particularly in the service provider market, makes him a great addition to our board," said John McAdam, President and Chief Executive Officer of F5. "We believe his deep understanding of the wireless carrier market will help increase the value that F5 solutions deliver to service providers and beyond."
"We are very pleased that John has agreed to join F5's board," said Alan J. Higginson, Chairman of F5. "John's background and perspectives will be a significant asset to our executive leadership team."
Previously in his career, Chapple served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Nextel Partners and its subsidiaries, prior to the company's acquisition by Sprint Communications in 2006. He was also Executive Vice President of Operations for McCaw Cellular Communications and thereafter AT&T Wireless Services, following a merger between the companies. He also held the position of Senior Vice President of Operations at American Cablesystems.
Chapple is the past Chairman of Cellular One Group and the Personal Communications Industry Association (PCIA), and past Vice-Chairman of the Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA). In addition, from 1995 to 1997, he was the President and Chief Operating Officer for Orca Bay Sports and Entertainment in Vancouver, B.C., which owned and operated Vancouver's National Basketball Association and National Hockey League sports franchises.
He currently serves on the Board of Directors at (NASDAQ: LEAP), (NASDAQ: CBEY), , a maritime services company, and , a private VoIP company operating in 45 states. In addition, Chapple is on the advisory board of
Leap Wireless
Cbeyond, Inc.
SeaMobile
Telesphere
 
Diamond Castle Holdings, a private equity firm; the Daniel J. Evans School of Public Affairs at University of Washington Visiting Committee; and the Apostle Islands Historic Preservation Conservancy in Wisconsin.
Chapple is a graduate of Syracuse University and Harvard University's Advanced Management Program. He is the current Chairman of the Syracuse University Board of Trustees, and serves on the Advisory Board for the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs.
About F5 Networks
F5 Networks is the global leader in Application Delivery Networking (ADN), focused on ensuring the secure, reliable, and fast delivery of applications. F5's flexible architectural framework enables community-driven innovation that helps organizations enhance IT agility and dynamically deliver services that generate true business value. F5's vision of unified application and data delivery offers customers an unprecedented level of choice in how they deploy ADN solutions. It redefines the management of application, server, storage, and network resources, streamlining application delivery and reducing costs. Global enterprise organizations, service and cloud providers, and Web 2.0 content providers trust F5 to keep their business moving forward. For more information, go to .
www.f5.com
F5 and F5 Networks are trademarks or service marks of F5 Networks, Inc., in the U.S. and other countries. All other product and company names herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
This press release may contain forward-looking statements relating to future events or future financial performance that involve risks and uncertainties. Such statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," or "continue," or the negative of such terms or comparable terms. These statements are only predictions and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements based upon a number of factors including those identified in the company's filings with the SEC.


