FILE:FFIV/FFIV-8K-20110815170024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
5.02(d)  On August 12, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of F5 Networks, Inc. (the "Company") elected Jonathan Chadwick as a Class I director. In connection with his services as a director, Mr. Chadwick will be entitled to the customary compensation arrangements for the Company's non-employee directors; an annual retainer in the amount of $40,000, $1,500 for each in-person board meeting, $750 for each telephonic board meeting, $1,000 for each in-person committee meeting and $750 for each telephonic committee meeting. Mr. Chadwick will serve as a member of the Board's Audit Committee. In addition, Mr. Chadwick will be awarded 2,442 restricted stock units ("RSUs") under the Company's 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, which grant shall be issued on November 1, 2011, and would fully vest on the day prior to the annual meeting of shareholders for fiscal year 2011.
On August 15, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing Mr. Chadwick's election and the authorization of an additional $200 million for the Company's common stock share repurchase program. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: August 15, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 (NASDAQ: FFIV), the global leader in Application Delivery Networking, today announced the appointment of Jonathan Chadwick, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Skype, Inc., to its board of directors.
SEATTLE, AUGUST 15, 2011
F5 Networks, Inc.
"Jonathan's expertise and success as a finance executive make him a great addition to our board," said John McAdam, President and Chief Executive Officer of F5. "In addition, his experience in the computer networking and security software industries will be tremendously valuable as F5 continues the expansion of the vital solutions we offer our customers throughout the world."
"We are very pleased that Jonathan has agreed to join F5's board," said Alan J. Higginson, Chairman of F5. "His background in high growth enterprises will bring a valuable perspective to F5's board."
Chadwick joined Skype from McAfee, the world's largest dedicated security technology company, where he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. McAfee was acquired by Intel Corporation in March 2011. Prior to McAfee, Chadwick spent 13 years in various finance roles at Cisco systems, Inc. He oversaw Cisco's finance teams for the service provider, enterprise, commercial, small business, and consumer customer segments. In addition, he headed teams that lead business architecture planning and new business model introduction across Cisco.
Chadwick is a Chartered Accountant in England and holds an honors degree in electrical and electronic engineering from the University of Bath, UK.
Share Repurchase Program
The company also announced that its board of directors had authorized an additional $200 million for its common stock share repurchase program. This new authorization is incremental to the existing $200 million program, previously announced as authorized in October 2010.
 
Acquisitions for the share repurchase program will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The program may be modified or discontinued at any time.
About F5 Networks
F5 Networks, Inc., the global leader in Application Delivery Networking (ADN), helps the world's largest enterprises and service providers realize the full value of virtualization, cloud computing, and on-demand IT. F5 solutions help integrate disparate technologies to provide greater control of the infrastructure, improve application delivery and data management, and give users seamless, secure, and accelerated access to applications from their corporate desktops and smart devices. An open architectural framework enables F5 customers to apply business policies at "strategic points of control" across the IT infrastructure and into the public cloud. F5 products give customers the agility they need to align IT with changing business conditions, deploy scalable solutions on demand, and manage mobile access to data and services. Enterprises, service and cloud providers, and leading online companies worldwide rely on F5 to optimize their IT investments and drive business forward. For more information, go to .
www.f5.com
F5 and F5 Networks are trademarks or service marks of F5 Networks, Inc., in the U.S. and other countries. All other product and company names herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
This press release may contain forward-looking statements relating to future events or future financial performance that involve risks and uncertainties. Such statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," or "continue," or the negative of such terms or comparable terms. These statements are only predictions and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements based upon a number of factors including those identified in the company's filings with the SEC.


