FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20040128093114.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     On January 28, 2004, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing its operating results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is hereby incorporated into this Item 12 by reference.
     In its press release Allergan included historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three month period and year ended December 31, 2003, as well as the corresponding periods for 2002. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
     In the press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted diluted earnings." Allergan uses adjusted diluted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted diluted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted diluted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted diluted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
     In the press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
     Allergan is also holding a webcast and investor conference beginning at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time on January 28, 2004 to disclose its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2003. The webcast can be accessed live through the Allergan website, www.allergan.com. Replays of the webcast will also be available from January 28, 2004 at 11:00 a.m. Pacific Time until January 30, 2004 at 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and can be accessed through or by calling 1-800-879-5510 for domestic locations, or 1-402-220-4733 for international locations. A passcode will not be required.
www.allergan.com
     The information in this section shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
For Immediate Release
ALLERGAN REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER OPERATING RESULTS
(IRVINE, Calif., January 28, 2004) Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2003. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.09 per share, payable on March 18, 2004 to stockholders of record on February 18, 2004.
For the quarter ended December 31, 2003:
Operating Results
 
2-2-2
"We are very pleased with the many accomplishments of 2003, including several key product approvals and launches, the acquisition of Oculex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and sales growth in excess of earnings growth," said David E.I. Pyott, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer.
After more than 20 years of distinguished service to Allergan, Dr. Lester Kaplan, Executive Vice President of Research & Development has decided to take early retirement from the Company once a successor is in place. Dr. Kaplan has agreed to be available as an advisor to the CEO on R&D matters until the summer of 2005. David Pyott, Chairman, President & CEO commented: "Dr. Kaplan's contribution to the Company has been significant as Allergan's R&D team, under his leadership, has produced a rich stream of world class innovative products, particularly in the last 5 years as our R&D organization has undergone massive expansion. As our R&D group has rapidly evolved, Les has built up a strong leadership team both in clinical development and discovery. His ability to choose winning compounds and to assemble a first class portfolio of projects has been among his greatest and consistent achievements." Allergan is in the process of evaluating a number of internal candidates as well as external applicants for this critical role for ensuring Allergan's long term success. Dr. Lester Kaplan commented: "With a very strong and accomplished R&D management team in place and a pipeline which is the most exciting in our history, I believe this is an excellent time for an orderly transition of R&D leadership at Allergan. Therefore, I have decided to take this opportunity to pursue personal interests outside the sphere of the full time corporate environment."
For full year 2003, therapeutic sales accounted for approximately 60% of total  sales and therapeutic sales grew at approximately 25% in constant currency. For full year 2003, cosmetic sales accounted for approximately 40% of total  sales and cosmetic sales grew at approximately 25% in constant currency.
Botox
Botox
During the fourth quarter of 2003:
Product and Pipeline Update
 
3-3-3
Following the end of the fourth quarter of 2003:
Partnering Activities
For the first quarter of 2004, Allergan estimates:
Outlook
For the second and third quarters of 2004, Allergan estimates diluted earnings per share growth between 17 percent and 19 percent compared to the second and third quarters of 2002.
For the full year of 2004, Allergan estimates:
 
4-4-4
 
In this press release, the statements regarding the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, and statements from Mr. Pyott, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Forward-Looking Statements
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including among other things, changing competitive market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction and consumer and physician acceptance of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning these and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2002 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26, 2003. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available on the World Wide Web at or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
www.allergan.com
 
5-5-5
 
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global health care company providing eye care and specialty pharmaceutical products worldwide. Allergan develops and commercializes products in the eye care, neuromodulator, skin care and other specialty markets that deliver value to our customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
About Allergan, Inc.
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Stephanie Fagan (714) 246-5232 (media)
Allergan Contacts
 
6-6-6
 
7-7-7
 
8-8-8
 
9-9-9
 
10-10-10


