FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20041101093106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 1, 2004, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing its operating results for the third quarter ended September 24, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
In its press release Allergan included historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and nine month periods ended September 24, 2004, as well as the corresponding periods for 2003. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In the press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
In the press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by Allergan may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
Allergan is also holding a webcast and investor conference beginning at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time on Monday, November 1, 2004 to disclose its financial results for the quarter ended September 24, 2004. The webcast can be accessed live through the Allergan website, www.allergan.com. Replays of the webcast will also be available from Monday, November 1, 2004 at 11:00 a.m. Pacific Time until Thursday, November 4, 2004 at 9:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and can be accessed through www.allergan.com or by calling 1-866-466-0581 for domestic locations, or 1-203-369-1440 for international locations. A passcode will not be required.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
                      -  Pharmaceutical Sales Increased 15% Percent for the Third Quarter            -  Board of Directors Declares Third Quarter Dividend
ALLERGAN REPORTS THIRD QUARTER OPERATING RESULTS
(IRVINE, Calif., November 1, 2004) Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the third quarter ended September 24, 2004. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a third quarter dividend of $0.09 per share, payable on December 9, 2004 to stockholders of record on November 10, 2004.
For the quarter ended September 24, 2004:
Operating Results
"We are extremely pleased with the Company's results and performance in the third quarter. We continue to drive forward our key clinical programs, which are the fuel for our innovation and long-term sales growth," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer.
 
2-2-2
During the third quarter of 2004:
Product and Pipeline Update
Following the end of the third quarter of 2004:
Effective July 9, 2004, Ronald M. Cresswell retired as a member of Allergan's Board of Directors for personal health reasons.
On July 28, 2004, Allergan announced the appointments of Prof. Trevor M. Jones to the Company's Board of Directors and Dr. Scott Whitcup to the position of Executive Vice President, Research & Development.
 
3-3-3
Effective October 27, 2004, Allergan's Board of Directors approved certain restructuring activities related to the planned termination of Allergan's manufacturing and supply agreement with Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. Allergan anticipates that the pre-tax restructuring charges, expected to total between $24 million and $28 million, will be recorded beginning in the fourth quarter of 2004 up through the fourth quarter of 2005.
Outlook
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, and the statements from Mr. Pyott, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance, of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of
 
4-4-4
products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning these and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2003 Form 10-K and the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 25, 2004. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available on the World Wide Web at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
About Allergan, Inc.
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global health care company providing specialty pharmaceutical products worldwide. Allergan develops and commercializes products in the eye care, neuromodulator, skin care and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Ashwin Agarwal (714) 246-4582 (investors) Stephanie Fagan (714) 246-5232 (media)
 
5-5-5
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and nine months ended September 24, 2004 and September 26, 2003. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
6-6-6
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. See non-GAAP financial measures disclosure on previous page.
 
7-7-7
 
8-8-8
 
9-9-9
In this press release, Allergan reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.


