FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20050207090035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 7, 2005, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing its operating results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
In its press release Allergan included historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2004, as well as the corresponding periods for 2003. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In the press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
In the press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by Allergan may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
Allergan is also holding a webcast and investor conference beginning at 7:00 a.m. Pacific Time on Monday, February 7, 2005 to disclose its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. The webcast can be accessed live through the Allergan website, www.allergan.com. Replays of the webcast will also be available from Monday, February 7, 2005 at 10:00 a.m. Pacific Time until Friday, February 11, 2005 at 9:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and can be accessed through www.allergan.com or by calling 1-800-427-2733 for domestic locations, or 1-402-220-2265 for international locations. A passcode will not be required.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
 -  Pharmaceutical Sales Increased 16 Percent for the Fourth Quarter  -  Board of Directors Declares Increase of Quarterly Dividend
ALLERGAN REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER OPERATING RESULTS
(IRVINE, Calif., February 7, 2005) Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2004. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has increased the fourth quarter dividend to $0.10 per share, payable on March 10, 2005 to stockholders of record on February 14, 2005.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended December 31, 2004:
 
2-2-2
Allergan implemented EITF 04-8 and restated all prior periods affected by this new accounting principle. EITF 04-8 requires companies to calculate diluted earnings per share by including common stock underlying contingent convertible securities. EITF 04-8 changed the way Allergan accounts for the Senior Notes. As a result of implementing EITF 04-8:
A reconciliation of the adjustments made from reported diluted earnings per share to adjusted diluted earnings per share for 2003 and 2004 is contained in the financial tables of this document.
"We are pleased with our strong sales and earnings growth in 2004. During the year, we launched (Cosmetic) in southern Europe, for the hyperhidrosis indication in the United States and received our first approvals for in Brazil and Canada," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Deepening our long-term innovative pipeline, we also filed key Investigational New Drug Applications for the proton pump inhibitor pro drug to treat gastrointestinal disease and for an alpha adrenergic agonist to treat neuropathic pain."
Vistabel
Botox
Botox
Combigan
For full year 2004, therapeutic sales accounted for approximately 58% of total (botulinum toxin type A) sales and therapeutic sales grew at approximately 20%. For full year 2004, cosmetic sales accounted for approximately 42% of total sales and cosmetic sales grew at approximately 30%.
Botox
Botox
 
3-3-3
Product and Pipeline Update
During the fourth quarter of 2004:
Following the end of the fourth quarter of 2004:
On January 18, 2005, Allergan announced that its Board of Directors approved the initiation and implementation of plans to streamline Allergan's research and development and select commercial activities throughout Europe into Allergan's facilities in the United Kingdom, Ireland and United States.
On January 25, 2005, Allergan announced the appointment of Robert A. Ingram to the Company's Board of Directors.
 
4-4-4
Outlook
For the first quarter of 2005, Allergan estimates:
For the second and third quarters of 2005, Allergan estimates diluted earnings per share growth between 15% and 17% compared to the adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second and third quarters of 2004.
For the full year of 2005, Allergan estimates:
In April 2004, Allergan announced that it would begin expensing the cost of future stock options with its next full round stock option grant, which typically occurs during the first fiscal quarter of each year. However, in December 2004, FASB issued a new statement regarding the valuation and expensing of stock options that applies to Allergan beginning with Allergan's third fiscal quarter of 2005. Due to the complexities of FASB's recently issued statement and the significant differences from its prior statement on stock option expensing, Allergan believes it is in the best interests of Allergan's stockholders to delay implementation of stock option expensing until the third fiscal quarter of 2005 to ensure that Allergan's stock option expensing mechanism accurately reflects FASB's requirements and is consistent on a quarterly basis. Upon adoption, Allergan plans
 
5-5-5
to expense stock options using the modified prospective application method established by FASB's statement. Until Allergan implements its new stock option expensing method, Allergan will provide financial disclosure of the theoretical effect of stock option expensing under FASB's original FAS 123 statement.
pro forma
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding new product development, market potential, expected growth, efficiencies, costs and savings, as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance, of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
The information contained in this press release reflects preliminary financial results, as Allergan's 2004 audit has not yet been completed. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new integrated audit requirements will not be met until Allergan has completed all of the steps necessary to file its 2004 audited financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2003 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 24, 2004. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available on the World Wide Web at or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
www.allergan.com
 
6-6-6
About Allergan, Inc.
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global health care company providing specialty pharmaceutical products worldwide. Allergan develops and commercializes products in the eye care, neuromodulator, skin care and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Ashwin Agarwal (714) 246-4582 (investors) Stephanie Fagan (714) 246-5232 (media) Caroline VanHove (714) 246-5134 (media)
 
     
7-7-7
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
8-8-8
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. See non-GAAP financial measures disclosure on previous page.
 
9-9-9
 
10-10-10
 
11-11-11
In this press release, Allergan reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
 
12-12-12
 
13-13-13
 
14-14-14
 
15-15-15
 
16-16-16
 
17-17-17
 
18-18-18


