FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20051005171143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On September 30, 2005, Allergan, Inc. and its affiliates ("Allergan") entered into an arrangement with affiliates of GlaxoSmithKline plc ("Glaxo"). Under these agreements, Glaxo received a license to develop and sell Allergan's product BOTOX (botulinum toxin type A) in Japan and the People's Republic of China and Allergan received the right to co-promote AMERGE (naratriptan hydrochloride) and IMITREX STATdose System (sumatriptan succinate) in the United States. Allergan also agreed to supply BOTOX to Glaxo for clinical trials and sales in Japan and the People's Republic of China and to provide strategic marketing support for sales of BOTOX in those countries.
     Allergan and Glaxo entered into a long-term arrangement under which Allergan agreed to transfer certain rights to Glaxo to permit it to commercialize, and develop new indications for, BOTOX in Japan and the People's Republic of China, to conduct activities directed toward improving and enhancing BOTOX, and to participate with Glaxo in the management of the development and commercialization of BOTOX. Allergan also agreed to transfer existing regulatory approvals for BOTOX in Japan and the People's Republic of China to Glaxo and, in Japan, the transfer will be subject to a filing with the Japan Fair Trade Commission. Glaxo will pay to Allergan: (i) a substantial initial payment after clearance by the Japan Fair Trade Commission; (ii) on-going royalties based upon sales of BOTOX in Japan and the People's Republic of China; and (iii) payments for Allergan's activities directed toward improving and enhancing BOTOX. Glaxo will develop new indications for BOTOX in Japan and in the People's Republic of China. Allergan will assist Glaxo to begin commercializing and developing BOTOX in Japan and the People's Republic of China by providing assistance in obtaining the necessary regulatory licenses to commercialize BOTOX in those countries, consulting with employees of Glaxo, transferring materials and providing information concerning the development and commercialization of BOTOX. For a period of time following any expiration of the license agreements, Allergan will be obligated to pay royalties to Glaxo on sales of BOTOX by Allergan in Japan and the People's Republic of China.
     Allergan also entered into two supply agreements with Glaxo under which Allergan will supply, and Glaxo will purchase, all of Glaxo's clinical trial and commercial requirements of BOTOX in Japan and the People's Republic of China. Allergan will supply BOTOX to Glaxo through its manufacturing facility in Ireland. The supply price will be recalculated in the fourth quarter of each year, subject to defined limitations on price increases, which may result in credits against royalties otherwise payable under the license agreements, and will apply to all purchases made in the subsequent year.
     Under a BOTOX global strategic support agreement between Allergan and Glaxo, Allergan will provide strategic marketing support for sales of BOTOX in Japan and the People's Republic of China in coordination with its global marketing strategy for BOTOX. Glaxo will make semi-annual payments of fixed amounts so long as Allergan has delivered semi-annual progress reports demonstrating that the specified support services have been provided and Allergan has satisfied defined spending requirements.
     Under a co-promotion agreement between Allergan and Glaxo, Allergan received the right to co-promote AMERGE and IMITREX STATdose System to neurologists and select related specialty physicians in the United States. Both AMERGE and IMITREX are long acting triptans (serotonin receptor agonists) for the treatment of migraines. Allergan's co-promotion rights will continue through January 31, 2011. During the co-promotion period, Allergan will be required to provide a minimum number of qualified sales representatives, achieve minimum numbers of sales calls and incur additional promotional expense. Glaxo will pay Allergan a fixed amount each year so long as it meets minimum detail obligations specified in the co-promotion agreement. Glaxo will also pay to Allergan a percentage of net sales of those products as performance
Table of Contents
payments for achieving net sales above a defined baseline amount and residual percentage payments of net sales over the baseline after the expiration of the co-promotion period if Allergan has met minimum commitments specified in the co-promotion agreement.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
For Immediate Release
IRVINE, Calif.  October 3, 2005  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE:AGN) announced today that it has entered into a long-term agreement with GlaxoSmithKline (NYSE:GSK) to develop and promote Allergan's BOTOX (botulinum toxin type A) in Japan and China and to co-promote GSK's products IMITREX STATdose System (sumatriptan succinate) and AMERGE (naratriptan hydrochloride) in the United States.
Under the terms of the agreement, Allergan will license to GSK all clinical development and commercial rights to BOTOX in Japan and China, markets in which GSK has extensive commercial, regulatory and R&D resources, as well as expertise in neurology. Allergan believes that these additional resources should accelerate new indications for BOTOX and maximize the product's sales potential in those important markets. Allergan will receive an up-front payment, payments for research and development and marketing support, and royalties on Japan and China BOTOX sales. Allergan also will manufacture BOTOX for GSK as part of a long-term supply agreement and will work collaboratively to support GSK on new clinical development for BOTOX and strategic marketing in those markets.
In addition, Allergan has obtained the right to co-promote GSK's products IMITREX STATdose System and AMERGE in the U.S. to neurologists for a 5-year period. IMITREX STATdose System is approved for the treatment of acute migraine in adults and for the acute treatment of cluster headache episodes. AMERGE Tablets are approved for the acute treatment of migraine attacks with and without an aura in adults. Allergan will receive both fixed and performance payments from GSK.
The transaction is expected to be accretive to Allergan's earnings over the planning horizon, although much of that accretion will be reinvested into the business. Allergan intends to reinvest the income generated from the agreement primarily to double the size of its U.S. neurology sales organization, which will significantly expand its reach and presence within the neurology community, and to provide additional funding for Allergan's research and development pipeline. The agreement is subject to approval by the appropriate government entities.
Allergan currently estimates that it will incur pre-tax restructuring costs, consisting primarily of severance, contract termination and other costs of between approximately $6 million and $8 million, associated with a planned restructuring and streamlining of Allergan's ongoing business activities in Japan that are necessary to accommodate Allergan's recent third party licensing and distribution arrangements.
"The collaboration with GSK simultaneously fulfills two key strategic objectives for Allergan," said David E.I. Pyott, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Allergan, Inc. "First, Japan has unique regulatory requirements that are different from the rest of the world as well as
 
distinct reimbursement and commercialization challenges. The agreement should maximize the value of the BOTOX franchise in Japan where GSK has critical mass and extraordinary regulatory and marketing capabilities. In China, GSK will establish a presence for BOTOX as the product has not as of yet been commercially available in this market. Second, the co-promotion of GSK's IMITREX STATdose System and AMERGE in the U.S. fulfills our strategic goal of expansion in the key neurology market and allows us to gain valuable expertise in the headache/migraine segments as we enter into Phase III clinical trials exploring the use of BOTOX for the treatment of chronic daily headache." Pyott concluded, "We are delighted to be working with GSK and look forward to a very successful collaboration."
About BOTOX
With 2004 global sales of $705 million, BOTOX currently has 20 unique indications in more than 75 countries, and has treated millions of patients with serious or debilitating disorders as well as cosmetic needs. In Japan, BOTOX is currently approved to treat blepharospasm (uncontrollable blinking), hemifacial spasm and cervical dystonia (a movement disorder characterized by involuntary contractions of the neck muscles); in China, it is approved to treat blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm.
About IMITREX STATdose System
and AMERGE
IMITREX STATdose System is approved for the acute treatment of migraine with and without aura and for the treatment of cluster headaches in adults. Among all prescriptions of migraine-specific medications, IMITREX is the most prescribed treatment in the U.S. and was the first available migraine-specific medication, launching as an injection in 1993 and a tablet formulation in 1995. IMITREX has treated more than 764 million migraine attacks worldwide, more than 2 headaches a second for the past decade. IMITREX has a demonstrated tolerability profile in clinical trials with more than 100,000 patients taking IMITREX. IMITREX STATdose System, which launched in 1997 as an improvement to the original subcutaneous formulation, continues to offer onset of action in as fast as 10 minutes, and is an ideal treatment for specific types of migraine attacks that may require fast and effective non-oral therapy like morning migraine and migraines associated with nausea/vomiting. IMITREX STATdose System still treats about 5 million patient attacks worldwide each year.
AMERGE treats the pain and associated symptoms of migraine and is non-sedating and non-narcotic. AMERGE has been studied in clinical trials with nearly 4,500 patients in the original clinical trials for approval. AMERGE has a demonstrated clinical efficacy profile and may be taken anytime after a migraine starts. AMERGE provides long lasting all-day migraine relief and may be an appropriate treatment for patients with migraines that last 24 hours or longer and has a side effect profile comparable to placebo. AMERGEfirst became available in the U.S. in 2Q 1998 as the first long acting migraine medication. It is estimated that over 115 million migraine attacks worldwide have been treated with AMERGE 2.5mg or 1mg since launch.
About Allergan, Inc.
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global health care company providing specialty pharmaceutical products worldwide. Allergan develops and commercializes products in the eye care, neuromodulator, skin care and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
2
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," including, among other statements, the statements by Mr. Pyott, statements regarding research and development outcomes, efficacy, and market and product potential. These statements are based on current expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from Allergan's expectations and projections. Risks and uncertainties include general industry and pharmaceutical market conditions; general domestic and international economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; challenges inherent in product marketing such as the unpredictability of market acceptance for new pharmaceutical and biologic products and/or the acceptance of new indications for such products; domestic and foreign health care reforms; the timing and uncertainty of the research and development and regulatory processes; trends toward managed care and health care cost containment; and governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2004 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 24, 2005. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available on the World Wide Web at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 1-714-246-4636.
Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media) Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Ashwin Agarwal (714) 246-4582 (investors)
Allergan Contacts
3


