FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20050114171404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
We have previously, and may in the future, grant nonqualified stock options and restricted stock awards to our executive officers under our 1989 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), substantially in accordance with the terms of the Certificate of Stock Option Grant attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, the Nonqualified Stock Option Grant Terms and Conditions attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2, the Certificate of Restricted Stock Award attached hereto as Exhibit 10.3 and the Restricted Stock Grant Terms and Conditions attached hereto as Exhibit 10.4.
Terms of Nonqualified Stock Option Grants
The Certificate of Stock Option Grant and the Nonqualified Stock Option Grant Terms and Conditions (the "Option Terms and Conditions") evidence the grant by us of a nonqualified option to purchase shares of our common stock (the "Option") to an eligible participant under the Plan. The number of shares of our common stock subject to the Option, the exercise price of the Option, the date on which the Option vests and becomes exercisable and the date on which the Option expires are each established by the Organization and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors (the "Committee") and set forth in the Certificate of Stock Option Grant. An Option recipient has no right to exercise the Option until and to the extent such Option shares have vested as provided in the Certificate of Stock Option Grant. The Option Terms and Conditions provide that upon a change of control of our company, the Option will immediately become fully vested and exercisable. Pursuant to the Option Terms and Conditions, and subject to such discretion of the Committee as may be exercised from time to time under the Plan, the Option will also:
Following termination of the recipient's employment by us as a result of normal retirement or for any reason other than for cause, death, total disability or job elimination, the Option will be exercisable by the recipient (or the recipient's successor in interest in the event of the recipient's death after his or her employment terminates) only to the extent that shares subject to the Option had become exercisable on or prior to the date of such termination and had not expired and become unexercisable on or prior to such date.
We will not issue or deliver shares of our common stock upon exercise of the Option unless and until there has been compliance with all applicable requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, all applicable listing requirements of any market or securities exchange on which shares of our common stock are then listed and any other requirement of law or of any regulatory body having jurisdiction over such issuance and delivery.
Neither the recipient nor the recipient's estate or transferees by will or the laws of descent and distribution will be, or have any rights or privileges of, a stockholder of our company with respect to any shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the Option unless and until certificates representing such shares shall have been issued and delivered.
Table of Contents
Terms of Restricted Stock Grants
The Certificate of Restricted Stock Award and the Restricted Stock Grant Terms and Conditions (the "Restricted Stock Terms and Conditions") evidence the grant by us of shares of our restricted common stock (the "Restricted Stock") to an eligible participant under the Plan. The number of shares of Restricted Stock subject to the grant and the dates on which the shares of Restricted Stock vest are each established by the Committee from time to time and set forth in the Certificate of Restricted Stock Award.
The Restricted Stock Terms and Conditions provide that upon a change of control of our company, the Restricted Stock will immediately become fully vested. The Restricted Stock Terms and Conditions provide that shares of the Restricted Stock may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of or encumbered until they have become vested, and any additional requirements or restrictions contained in the Certificate of Restricted Stock Award or in the Plan have been satisfied, terminated or expressly waived by us in writing.
If the recipient's employment by us terminates for any reason other than death, total disability or job elimination, then the recipient will generally forfeit all shares of the Restricted Stock subject to the award that are, at the date of such termination, still subject to the vesting restrictions.
If the recipient's employment by us terminates by reason of the recipient's death or total disability, all of the restrictions imposed upon the Restricted Stock will lapse and be removed (and the Restricted Stock will become fully vested) as of the recipient's last date of employment.
If the recipient's employment by us terminates by reason of a job elimination, the restrictions will lapse and be removed with respect to the Restricted Stock in an amount equal to the number of shares of Restricted Stock subject to the grant multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full calendar months from the grant date as specified in the Certificate of Restricted Stock Award until the recipient's last day of employment and the denominator of which is the number of months during which the restrictions would have been in effect pursuant to the original grant. The recipient will generally forfeit all other shares of Restricted Stock subject to the award that are, at the date of such termination, still subject to the vesting restrictions.
During the period prior to the lapse and removal of the vesting and other restrictions placed on the Restricted Stock, the recipient will have all of the rights of a stockholder of our company with respect to all of the Restricted Stock not previously returned to us pursuant to the terms of the grant, including the right to vote such Restricted Stock and the right to receive all dividends or other distributions with respect to such Restricted Stock.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1

 
Exhibit 10.2
     1. . Capitalized terms used in this Grant but not otherwise defined shall have the same meanings as in the Allergan, Inc. 1989 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (the "Plan").
Definitions
     2. . You may, at your discretion and on the terms and conditions set forth herein, purchase all or any part of an aggregate of the shares of Common Stock at the price per share set forth in the Certificate of Stock Option Grant (the "Certificate").
The Option
     3. 
Terms of Exercise
.
     (a) Subject to the provisions of Sections 4 and 5 below, the Option shall vest and be exercisable at the option exercise price (the "Grant Price") and as to the specified number of shares (the "Optioned Shares") on and after the "Date of Vest" dates and on or before the "Last Date to Exercise" dates that apply to each installment of Optioned Shares as set forth in the Certificate. You have no right to exercise the Option with respect to any Optioned Shares covered by any installment until such installment vests as provided in the Certificate. The Option granted hereunder shall expire and be no longer exercisable as provided in the Plan and this Grant.
     (b) The Option may be exercised as to all or any portion of the Optioned Shares covered by an installment of the Option that has accrued and vested and that has not yet expired and become unexercisable as provided in the Plan or this Grant ("Accrued Installment"). Accrued Installments may be exercised, in whole or in part, by giving written notice of exercise to the Company's stock plan administrator, AST Stock Plan (www.aststockplan.com) or any successor administrator, which notice shall specify the number of Optioned Shares to be purchased and shall be accompanied by payment in full of the purchase price in cash or in whole or in part in shares of the Company's Common Stock owned by you valued at fair market value on the date of exercise. Payment of cash may be by personal check, Company Credit Union check or money market draft on your own account payable to the order of the Company or such other means as the Committee shall determine. An exercise is effective only upon receipt of both the written notice and the payment in full of the purchase price.
 
     4.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Grant, in the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan) the Option shall, as of the date of such Change in Control, immediately become vested and exercisable with respect to the full number of Optioned Shares.
Change in Control.
     5. 
Termination of Employment.
     (a) Except as otherwise provided in a written agreement between you and the Company, in the event of termination of your employment with the Company (and its subsidiaries) for Cause (as defined in the Plan), the Option shall become unexercisable as of the date of such termination and you shall thereafter have no further rights to purchase any of the Optioned Shares.
     (b) Except as otherwise provided in a written agreement between you and the Company, in the event of your termination of employment with the Company and its subsidiaries for:
     (i) Any reason other than for Cause, death, Total Disability (as defined in Paragraph (d) below), Normal Retirement (as defined in Paragraph (e) below), or Job Elimination (as defined in Paragraph (f) below), the Options shall become unexercisable as of the earlier of (A) the date the Accrued Installments expire in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(a) above or (B) three calendar months after the date of termination.
     (ii) Death or Total Disability, the Option shall vest in its entirety as of your last date of employment and shall expire and become unexercisable 12 months after the date of your termination, regardless of the date upon which the Accrued Installments would otherwise expire in accordance with provisions of Section 3(a) above.
     (iii) Normal Retirement, the Option shall expire and become unexercisable as of the earlier of (A) the date the Accrued Installments expire in accordance with the provisions at Section 3(a) above or (B) three years after the date of termination.
     (iv) Job Elimination, the Option shall vest in its entirety as of your last date of employment and shall expire and become unexercisable as of the earlier of (A) the date the Accrued Installments expire in accordance with the provisions at Section 3(a) above or (B) three calendar months after the date of termination.
     (c) In the event your employment terminates for Normal Retirement or for any reason other than for Cause, death, Total Disability or Job Elimination, the Option shall be exercisable by you (or your successor in interest in the event of your death after your employment terminates) following your termination of employment only to the extent that installments
 
thereof had become exercisable on or prior to the date of such termination and had not expired and become unexercisable on or prior to such date.
     (d) As used herein, "Total Disability" means the inability, by reason of mental or physical illness or accident, to perform any and every duty of the occupation at which you were employed when such disability commenced, which disability is expected to continue for a period of at least 12 months. Any determination as to the date and extent of any disability shall be made by the Committee (as defined in the Plan) upon the basis of such information as the Committee deems necessary or desirable.
     (e) As used herein "Normal Retirement" means any termination of employment (other than for Cause or death or Total Disability) after you have attained age 55 provided you have been employed by the Company and its subsidiaries for a minimum of five (5) years.
     (f) As used herein, "Job Elimination" occurs when you cease to be an Employee of the Company as a result of a reduction in force or transfer to a new organization outside of the Company as a result of a divestiture, other than a spin-off or other distribution to the Company's stockholders. A "reduction in force" occurs under the Plan when you are not offered an alternative job by the Company and there is a net headcount reduction (i.e. if you are replaced, there is no reduction in force, even if the duties of the position change).
     6. The Committee shall make such provisions and take such steps as it deems necessary or appropriate for the withholding of any taxes or other amounts required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over to such authority for your account with respect to the grant or exercise of the Option, including, but without limitation, the deduction of the amount of any such tax or other amounts from any compensation or other amounts payable to you by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Taxes
.
     7. As soon as practicable after any proper exercise of the Option (or any portion thereof) in accordance with the provisions of this Grant and the Plan, the Company (or the administrator of the Plan) shall deliver to you at the main office of the Company, or such place as shall be mutually acceptable, a certificate or certificates representing the shares of Common Stock to which you are entitled by reason of exercise of the Option (or portion thereof).
Delivery of Certificates
.
     8. No shares of Common Stock shall be issued or delivered upon exercise of the Option unless and until there shall have been compliance with all applicable requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, all applicable listing requirements of any market or securities exchange on which shares of Common Stock are then listed and any other requirement of law or of any regulatory body having jurisdiction over such issuance and delivery. The inability of the Company to obtain any required permits, authorizations or approvals
Restrictions on Issuance of Shares
.
 
necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of any shares of Common Stock hereunder on terms deemed reasonable by the Committee shall relieve the Company, the Board and the Committee of any liability in respect of the nonissuance or sale of such shares of Common Stock as to which such requisite permits, authorizations or approvals shall not have been obtained.
     9. . Each certificate representing shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option shall be endorsed with all legends, if any, required by applicable federal and state securities laws to be placed on the certificates. The determination of which legends, if any, shall be placed upon the certificates shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion and such decision shall be final and binding.
Legends on Stock Certificates
     10. Neither you nor your estate nor your transferees by will or the laws of descent and distribution shall be, or have any rights or privileges of, a stockholder of the Company with respect to any shares issuable upon exercise of the Option unless and until certificates representing such shares shall have been issued and delivered. No adjustment will be made for any dividends or other rights where the record date is prior to the date such stock certificates are issued.
No Rights in Shares Before Issuance and Delivery.
     11.  In the event of any recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares or any other like change affecting the common stock of the Company, appropriate adjustment shall be made in the number, price and kind of shares covered by the Option.
Stock Split, Reorganization, Merger, etc.
     12.  The grant of the Option evidenced hereby is made pursuant to all of the provisions of the Plan, and this Grant is intended, and shall be interpreted in a manner to comply therewith. Any provision of this Grant which is inconsistent with Plan shall be superseded by and governed by the Plan.
Grant Subject to Plan.
     13.  The Option is not assignable or transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. The Option shall not otherwise be transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or disposed of in any way, whether by operation of law or otherwise, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. The terms of the Option shall be binding upon your executors, administrators, heirs, successors and permitted assigns.
Nontransferability of Option.
     14.
No Employment Rights.
     (a) Nothing in the Plan or in this Grant shall be construed to create or imply any contract of employment between you and the Company (or any of its subsidiaries) or shall affect in any way the right of the Company (or any such subsidiary) to terminate your employment at any time.
     (b) Any question(s) as to whether and when there has been a termination of your employment, the reason (if any) for such termination, and/or the consequences thereof under the terms of the Plan or this Grant shall be determined
 
by the Committee in its sole discretion, and the Committee's determination thereof shall be final and binding.
     15.  Any dispute or disagreement which may arise under or as a result of or pursuant to this Grant shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and any interpretation by the Committee of the terms of this Grant shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Disputes and Disagreements.
     16.  All notices or other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be sufficient in all respects only if delivered in person or sent via certified mail or overnight delivery service such as Federal Express, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
Notices.

 
Exhibit 10.3

 
Exhibit 10.4
     1. Capitalized terms used in this Restricted Stock Grant (this "Grant") but not otherwise defined shall have the same meanings as in the Allergan, Inc. 1989 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (the "Plan").
Definitions
.
     2. The Company hereby grants to you the shares of its Common Stock (the "Granted Stock") set forth in the Certificate of Restricted Stock Award (the "Certificate") subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth below. Shares of Granted Stock that are not from shares of Common Stock held by by the Company as treasury shares shall be issued for consideration having a value not less than the par value thereof.
Basic Terms
.
     3. Any Granted Stock received by you shall be subject to the following restrictions:
Restrictions on the Stock
.
     (a) The shares of Granted Stock may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of, alienated or encumbered until the restrictions set forth in this Section 3 have lapsed and are removed, and any additional requirements or restrictions contained in this Grant or in the Plan have been satisfied, terminated or expressly waived by the Company in writing.
     (b) If your employment with the Company and its subsidiaries terminates for any reason other than your death or Total Disability (as defined herein) or by reason of a Job Elimination (as defined herein), then unless the Committee in its discretion determines otherwise, you shall forfeit all shares of Granted Stock granted hereunder which are, at the date of such termination of employment, still subject to the vesting restrictions imposed under this Section 3.
     (c) The restrictions imposed under Paragraphs (a) and (b) above upon the Granted Stock shall lapse and be removed (and the shares of Granted Stock granted to you under this Grant shall vest) in accordance with the following rules:
     (i) Except as provided in Subparagraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv) below, the restrictions imposed under Paragraphs (a) and (b) above with respect to the Granted Stock granted to you pursuant to this
 
Grant shall lapse and be removed on the Date of Expiration of Restriction indicated in the Certificate.
     (ii) In the event of a Change in Control, the restrictions imposed under Paragraphs (a) and (b) above upon the Granted Stock granted to you pursuant to this Grant shall lapse and be removed (and the Granted Stock granted to you pursuant to this Grant shall become fully vested) as of the date of such Change in Control.
     (iii) If your employment with the Company and its subsidiaries terminates by reason of your death or Total Disability, all of the restrictions imposed upon the Granted Stock granted to you pursuant to this Grant shall lapse and be removed (and the Granted Stock shall become fully vested) as of the last date of your employment. As used herein, "Total Disability" means the inability, by reason of mental or physical illness or accident, to perform any and every duty of the occupation at which you were employed when such disability commenced, which disability is expected to continue for a period of at least 12 months. Any determination as to the date and extent of any disability shall be made by the Committee upon the basis of such information as the Committee deems necessary or desirable.
     (iv) If your employment with the Company and its subsidiaries terminates by reason of a Job Elimination, the restrictions shall lapse and be removed with respect to the Granted Stock in an amount equal to the number of shares of Granted Stock multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full calendar months from Grant Date as specified in the Certificate until your last day of employment and the denominator of which is the number of months during which the restrictions would have been in effect pursuant to the original grant. As used herein, "Job Elimination" occurs when you cease to be an Employee of the Company as a result of a reduction in force or transfer to a new organization outside of the Company as a result of a divestiture, other than a spin-off or other distribution to the Company's stockholders. A "reduction in force" occurs under the Plan when you are not offered an alternative job by the Company and there is a net headcount reduction (i.e. if you are replaced, there is no reduction in force, even if the duties of the position change).
     (d) In order to enforce the vesting restrictions set forth in this Section 3, the Committee (i) shall cause a legend or legends to be placed on the certificates which make appropriate reference to the restrictions imposed on the Granted Stock issued to you pursuant to this Grant, and (ii) may require that the certificates representing the shares of such Granted Stock remain in the physical custody of an escrow holder or the Company until any or all of the restrictions expire or have been removed.
 
     4. You shall only be entitled to make any election pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or any successor thereto), or comparable provisions of any state tax law, to include any amount in your gross income in connection with your acquisition of the Granted Stock, if you shall first have (i) notified the Company of your intention to make such election and (ii) paid to the Company or its subsidiaries, in the form of cash or a certified or bank cashier's check, an amount sufficient to satisfy any taxes or other amounts required by any other governmental authority to be withheld or paid over to such authority for your account, or otherwise made arrangements satisfactory to the Committee for the payment of such amounts through withholding or otherwise. You should be aware that such election, if made, must be made within 30 days of the Grant Date specified in the Certificate and that you should consult with your own tax advisor.
Section 
83(b)
Election
.
     5. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, during the period prior to the lapse and removal of the restrictions set forth in Section 3 above, except as otherwise provided herein, you shall have all of the rights of a stockholder with respect to all of the Granted Stock not previously returned to the Company pursuant to the terms hereof, including without limitation the right to vote such Granted Stock and the right to receive all dividends or other distributions with respect to such Granted Stock. In connection with the payment of such dividends or other distributions, the Company or its subsidiaries shall be entitled to deduct any taxes or other amounts required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over to such authority for your account.
Voting and Other Rights
.
     6. As soon as practicable after the lapse and removal of the vesting restrictions applicable to all or or any portion of the Granted Stock as provided in Section 3 above, the Company shall release the certificates representing such Granted Stock to you, provided (i) you shall have paid to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy any taxes or other amounts required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over to such authority for your account, or otherwise made arrangements satisfactory to the Committee for the payment of such amounts through withholding or otherwise, in the form of cash, personal check, Company Credit Union check, money market draft on your own account, and subject to the Committee's approval, shares of Common Stock owned by you, tax withholding from the shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable have a fair market value on the date of withholding equal to the aggregate amount of such liabilities based on the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax income and payroll tax purposes that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income, or such other means as the Committee shall determine, and (ii) there shall have been compliance with all applicable requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, all applicable listing requirements of any market or securities exchange on which shares of Common Stock are then listed and any other requirement of law or of any regulatory body having jurisdiction over such issuance and delivery. The inability of the Company to obtain any required permits, authorizations or approvals necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of any shares of Common Stock hereunder on terms deemed reasonable by the Committee shall relieve the Company, the Board and the Committee of any liability in respect of the nonissuance
Expiration of Vesting Restrictions
.
 
or sale of such shares of Common Stock as to which such requisite permits, authorizations or approvals shall not have been obtained.
     7. . Each certificate representing shares of Granted Stock shall be endorsed with all legends, if any, required by applicable federal and state securities laws to be placed on the certificates. The determination of which legends, if any, shall be placed upon the certificates shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion and such decision shall be final and binding.
Legends on Stock Certificates
     8.  In the event of any recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares or any other like change affecting the Common Stock, appropriate adjustment shall be made in the number, price and kind of shares covered by this Grant; , that any shares received with respect to shares of Granted Stock as a result of such recapitalization, stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares or any other like change affecting the Common Stock shall also be subject to the restrictions set forth in the Plan and in Section 3 hereof.
Stock Split, Reorganization, Merger, etc.
provided, however
     9. . The grant of the Granted Stock evidenced hereby is made pursuant to all of the provisions of the Plan, and this Grant is intended, and shall be interpreted in a manner to comply therewith. Any provision of this Grant which is inconsistent with the Plan shall be superseded by and governed by the Plan.
Grant Subject to Plan
     10.
No Employment Rights
.
     (a) Nothing in the Plan or in this Grant shall be construed to create or imply any contract of employment between you and the Company (or any of its subsidiaries) or shall affect in any way the right of the Company (or any such subsidiary) to terminate your employment at any time.
     (b) Any question(s) as to whether and when there has been a termination of your employment, the reason (if any) for such termination, and/or the consequences thereof under the terms of the Plan or this Grant shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and the Committee's determination thereof shall be final and binding.
     11. Any dispute or disagreement which may arise under or as a result of or pursuant to this Grant shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and any interpretation by the Committee of the terms of this Grant shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Disputes and Disagreements
.
     12. All notices or other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be sufficient in all respects only if delivered in person or sent via certified mail or overnight delivery service such as Federal Express, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
Notices
.
 


