FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20050727093124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 27, 2005, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing its operating results for the second quarter ended June 24, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
In the press release, Allergan included historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and six month periods ended June 24, 2005, as well as the corresponding periods for 2004. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In the press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
In the press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by Allergan may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
Allergan is also holding a webcast and investor conference beginning at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time on Wednesday, July 27, 2005 to disclose its financial results for the quarter ended June 24, 2005. The webcast can be accessed live through the Allergan website, www.allergan.com. Replays of the webcast will also be available from Wednesday, July 27, 2005 at 10:00 a.m. Pacific Time until Tuesday, August 3, 2005 at 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time, and can be accessed through www.allergan.com or by calling 1-866-373-9229 for domestic locations, or 1-203-369-0281 for international locations. A passcode will not be required.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., July 27, 2005) Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the second quarter ended June 24, 2005. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a second quarter dividend of $0.10 per share, payable on September 7, 2005 to stockholders of record on August 12, 2005.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended June 24, 2005:
 
2-2-2
"We are very pleased with our continued strong sales and earnings growth during the second quarter as our business continues to perform better than was anticipated at the beginning of 2005," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition, we look forward to commencing with the key clinical trials for our exciting new indications, which include chronic daily headache and overactive bladder."
Botox
Product and Pipeline Update
During the second quarter of 2005:
On May 19, 2005, Allergan announced the appointment of Louis J. Lavigne, Jr. to Allergan's Board of Directors, effective as of the Board's July 2005 meeting.
On July 25, 2005, Allergan's Board of Directors approved a plan under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (The Act) to repatriate foreign earnings previously permanently reinvested outside of the United States and to reinvest those earnings domestically. The Act provides favorable tax treatment for repatriated earnings that are above a base amount determined based on a company's historical repatriation levels and not more than a specified threshold. Allergan anticipates repatriating approximately $759 million above the base amount. This includes $674 million under its repatriation and reinvestment plan that is equal to Allergan's specified threshold and is subject to a favorable tax treatment under The Act and an approximate $85 million of additional foreign earnings previously permanently reinvested outside of the United States.
 
3-3-3
Outlook
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding new product development, market potential, expected growth, efficiencies, costs and savings, as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
 
4-4-4
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance, of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2004 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 25, 2005. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available on the World Wide Web at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
About Allergan, Inc.
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global health care company providing specialty pharmaceutical products worldwide. Allergan develops and commercializes products in the eye care, neuromodulator, skin care and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Ashwin Agarwal (714) 246-4582 (investors) Caroline VanHove (714) 246-5134 (media) Heather Katt (714) 246-6224 (media)
 
5-5-5
(a) Restructuring charge and related inventory write-offs (b) Transition/duplicate operating expenses (c) Unrealized gain on the mark-to-market adjustment to derivative instruments (d) Total tax effect for non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments and dividend repatriation consists of the following amounts (in millions):
(e) Income tax benefit for previously paid state income taxes and tax effect for non-GAAP adjustments
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and six months ended June 24, 2005 and June 25, 2004. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
6-6-6
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. See non-GAAP financial measures disclosure on previous page.
(a) Restructuring charge and related inventory write-offs (b) Transition/duplicate operating expenses (c) Unrealized gain on the mark-to-market adjustment to derivative instruments (d) Total tax effect for non-GAAP pre-tax adjustments and dividend repatriation consists of the following amounts (in millions):
(e) Patent infringement settlement (f) Income tax benefit for previously paid state income taxes and tax effect for non-GAAP adjustments (g) ISTA Vitrase collaboration fee
 
7-7-7
 
8-8-8
*     Including inventory write-offs of $0.3 million for the three and six month periods ended June 24, 2005.
 
9-9-9
In this press release, Allergan reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
 
10-10-10
(a) GAAP diluted earnings per share guidance excludes any potential impact of future unrealized gains or losses on derivative instruments and future restructuring charges and transition / duplicate operating expenses associated with the Company's planned restructuring and streamlining of its European operations and the termination of the manufacturing and supply agreement with Advanced Medical Optics.


