FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20050118092247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
On January 18, 2005, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing a proposed restructuring of certain activities related to the Company's European operations. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Effective January 17, 2005, the Company's Board of Directors approved the initiation and implementation of a restructuring of certain activities related to the Company's European operations. The restructuring seeks to optimize operations, improve resource allocation and create a scalable, lower cost and more efficient operating model for the Company's European research and development ("R&D") and commercial activities. Specifically, the restructuring anticipates moving key European R&D and select commercial functions from the Company's Mougins, France and other European locations to the Company's Irvine, California, High Wycombe, U.K. and Dublin, Ireland facilities and streamlining functions in the Company's European management services group.
Under applicable law, the proposed restructuring requires consultations and, in certain cases, negotiations with European and national works councils, other management/labor organizations and local authorities. The restructuring steps to be implemented and their ultimate cost will depend in part on the outcome of such consultations and negotiations.
The Company anticipates incurring restructuring charges and charges relating to severance, relocation and one-time termination benefits, payments to public employment and training programs, implementation, transition, capital and other asset-related expenses, duplicate operating expenses and contract termination costs in connection with the restructuring. The Company currently estimates that the non-recurring pre-tax charges and capital expenditures resulting from the restructuring will be between $50 million and $60 million. This amount is expected to be incurred beginning in the first quarter of 2005 and continuing up through and including the second quarter of 2006. Of this amount, approximately $50 million to $58 million are expected to be cash expenditures. The Company also estimates that the restructuring will yield annual operating cost reductions of between $6 million and $9 million. The Company does not expect any impact from the restructuring on the Company's 2004 guidance, its ongoing financial guidance or on the number of its European sales force positions. The Company intends to principally reinvest any realized operating cost reductions into its businesses and into serving its customers.
The foregoing estimates are based on assumptions relating to, among other things, a reduction of R&D and general and administrative positions in the affected European locations and charges associated with the reduction. These workforce reduction activities are currently expected to begin in the second quarter of 2005 and to be completed by the close of the second quarter of 2006. Charges associated with the workforce reduction are currently expected to be recorded beginning in the first quarter of 2005 and to be completed by the close of the second quarter of 2006. As set forth above, the number of positions impacted and the final costs incurred will depend in part on the outcome of the above-referenced consultations and negotiations and certain employees' decisions with respect to transfer opportunities. The Company is unable at this time to estimate the ultimate cost of the workforce reduction, and will file an amended Form 8-K upon determining the total expense to be incurred.
Estimated restructuring charges also include approximately $2 million to $7 million for contract and lease termination costs and asset write-offs (primarily for leasehold improvements in facilities to be exited). These costs are currently expected to be recorded beginning in the second quarter of 2005 and are expected to be completed by the close of the second quarter of 2006.
Estimated implementation and transition related expenses include, among other things, legal, consulting, recruiting, information system implementation costs and taxes. These costs are currently expected to total approximately $9 million to $11 million, and are expected to be recorded beginning in the first quarter of 2005 and continuing up through and including the second quarter of 2006. The Company also expects to incur duplicate operating expenses during the transition period to ensure that job knowledge and skills are properly transferred to new employees. These duplicate operating expenses are currently expected to total between $1 million and $2 million, and are expected to be recorded beginning in the second quarter of 2005 and continuing up through and including the first quarter of 2006.
Table of Contents
The Company also expects to incur additional capital expenditures for leasehold improvements (primarily at the Company's High Wycombe, U.K. facility or a new facility in the U.K. to accommodate increased headcount). These capital expenditures are currently estimated to be between $5 million and $7 million, and are expected to be recorded beginning in the second quarter of 2005 and continuing up through and including the fourth quarter of 2005.
Statements made by us in this report on Form 8-K, including but not limited to statements regarding our restructuring plans (including the anticipated costs and timing of such actions), our anticipated reduction in force, and our future operating cost reductions, that are not historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of senior management and include comments that express our opinions about trends and factors that may impact future operating results. Disclosures that use words such as we "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "intend," "could," "plan," "expect" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements rely on a number of assumptions concerning future events, many of which are outside of our control, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from opinions and expectations, including but not limited to the outcome of the required consultations and negotiations with European and national works councils, other management/labor organizations and local authorities, our ability to implement the restructuring plan according to the timetable and to the extent currently anticipated, unanticipated expenditures incurred in connection with the restructuring plan, and our ability to project accurately cost savings and changes from the plan. More information about potential factors that could affect our business and financial results is included in the section entitled "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 24, 2004. We do not plan to update any such forward-looking statements and expressly disclaim any duty to update the information contained in this filing except as required by law.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
(IRVINE, Calif., January 18, 2005)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) announced today plans to streamline its Research and Development (R&D) and select commercial activities throughout Europe into Allergan's facilities in the United Kingdom, Ireland and United States. The Company's decision to streamline these operations is in keeping with its long-term strategic plan to focus its resources on developing new products with high-market potential and to continue its significant growth and increase its competitiveness as a global specialty pharmaceutical company.
Further integration of Allergan's European R&D programs is expected to result in:
"The streamlining of our European R&D operations should enable us to further integrate and strengthen our global R&D business model. The integration of our commercial activities is also expected to generate efficiencies and savings that we plan to re-invest into Allergan's businesses," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. "These activities will seek to optimize operations and improve resource allocation by creating a lower-cost business model."
Allergan currently estimates that it will incur non-recurring pre-tax charges and capital expenditures of between $50 million and $60 million in connection with the restructuring and related activities. This amount is expected to be incurred beginning in the first quarter of 2005 up through and including the second quarter of 2006. The annual operating cost reductions are currently estimated to be between $6 million and $9 million per year. Allergan does not expect any impact from this transaction on Allergan's 2004 guidance, its ongoing guidance or on the number of its European sales force positions. The savings realized from the transaction will be principally re-invested into Allergan's businesses and into serving Allergan's customers.
 
2-2-2
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding new product development, market potential, expected growth, competitiveness, efficiencies, costs, savings and reinvestment plans, as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, and the statements from Mr. Pyott, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance, of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Additional information concerning these and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2003 Form 10-K and the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 24, 2004. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available on the World Wide Web at or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
www.allergan.com
About Allergan, Inc.
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global health care company providing specialty pharmaceutical products worldwide. Allergan develops and commercializes products in the eye care, neuromodulator, skin care and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Ashwin Agarwal (714) 246-4582 (investors) Stephanie Fagan (714) 246-5232 (media)


