FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20060202093045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 2, 2006, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing its operating results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
In its press release, Allergan included historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2005, as well as the corresponding periods for 2004. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In the press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
In the press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by Allergan may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
Allergan is also holding a live webcast and investor conference beginning at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time on Thursday, February 2, 2006 to disclose its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. The webcast can be accessed live through the Allergan website, www.allergan.com. Replays of the webcast will also be available for one week following the call and can be accessed through www.allergan.com or by calling 1-866-397-1425 for domestic locations, or 1-203-369-0532 for international locations. A passcode will not be required.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
99.1     Allergan, Inc. press release dated February 2, 2006.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., February 2, 2006)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.10 per share, payable on March 14, 2006 to stockholders of record on February 17, 2006.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended December 31, 2005:
 
2-2-2
"We are extremely pleased with our sales growth and performance in 2005 and we believe Allergan is well-positioned for the future as we continue to build leadership positions in our specialties." said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Additionally, we continue to make excellent progress toward completing the Inamed acquisition and we look forward to offering the benefits of the transaction to our customers, patients, employees and our stockholders, as we create this leading global medical aesthetics franchise."
For full year 2005, therapeutic sales accounted for approximately 57% of total (botulinum toxin type A) sales and therapeutic sales grew at approximately 16%. For full year 2005, cosmetic sales accounted for approximately 43% of total sales and cosmetic sales grew at approximately 21%.
Botox
Botox
As a result of Allergan's development and promotion agreements with GSK, Allergan has provided 2005 and 2004 quarterly net sales in Japan, which are contained in the financial tables of this document. For full years 2005 and 2004, net sales in Japan were $38.8 million and $32.5 million, respectively.
Botox
Botox
Product and Pipeline Update
During the fourth quarter of 2005:
 
3-3-3
Following the fourth quarter of 2005:
Inamed Acquisition
On November 15, 2005, Allergan announced its proposal to acquire Inamed Corporation for a per share consideration of $84.00 in cash or 0.8498 of a share of common Allergan stock, subject to proration. Allergan and Inamed are continuing to work with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to obtain clearance of the transaction. Allergan is making good progress and will separately announce when the FTC has cleared the transaction.
Outlook
Allergan estimates 2006 diluted earnings per share, prior to the acquisition of Inamed, to be between $3.56 and $3.62, which includes a $0.20 negative impact related to the estimated effect of expensing stock options in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123R (FAS 123R). Consistent with the Securities and Exchange Commission's requirement, Allergan will begin implementing FAS 123R in the first fiscal quarter of 2006.
Allergan anticipates that the acquisition of Inamed will be neutral to its 2006 diluted earnings per share guidance which excludes the following non-GAAP adjustments:
The estimated pre-tax impact from expensing stock options under FAS 123R is approximately $44.0 million and the estimated allocation is as follows:
 
4-4-4
Allergan intends to provide additional 2006 guidance for the combined company following FTC clearance of the Inamed acquisition and the completion of the exchange offer.
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding new product development, market potential, expected growth, efficiencies, costs and savings, as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance, of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2004 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
Allergan has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 and a Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO in connection with the exchange offer. Inamed stockholders should read those filings, and any other filings made by Allergan with the SEC in connection with the proposed Inamed acquisition, as they contain important information. These SEC filings, as well as Allergan's other public SEC filings, can be obtained without charge at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov, and at www.Allergan.com.
 
5-5-5
About Allergan, Inc.
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global health care company providing specialty pharmaceutical products worldwide. Allergan develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Ashwin Agarwal (714) 246-4582 (investors) Caroline VanHove (714) 246-5134 (media) Heather Katt (714) 246-6224 (media)
 
6-6-6
 
7-7-7
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
8-8-8
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
See non-GAAP financial measures disclosure on previous page.
 
9-9-9
 
10-10-10
 
11-11-11
In this press release, Allergan reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts.
Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
 
12-12-12


