FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20060802091552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 2, 2006, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2006. In its press release, Allergan included historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, with respect to the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006, as well as the corresponding periods in 2005. Allergan also included estimated non-GAAP financial measures for the third fiscal quarter of 2006 and the full year 2006. Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings," "adjusted diluted earnings," "adjusted earnings per share" and "adjusted diluted earnings per share." These measures exclude expenses and costs associated with accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of inventory and in-process research and development, the amortization of acquired tangible assets, charges, duplicate operating expenses and transition expenses associated with internal restructurings, accrued costs related to a tax dispute and the effect of unrealized losses on the mark-to-market adjustment to foreign currency derivative instruments. Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of "adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales." Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales represents reported sales adjusted to exclude prior period net sales for Japan. Allergan shifted to a third party license and distribution business model for its operations in Japan in 2005 and accordingly has recorded no pharmaceutical product net sales for its Japan operations in 2006.
Allergan uses adjusted earnings, adjusted diluted earnings and adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings, adjusted diluted earnings and adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings, adjusted diluted earnings and adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales are some of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses these measures for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
In the press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by Allergan may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
The non-GAAP financial measures reported by Allergan have limited applicability because they exclude expenses actually incurred by Allergan. Allergan believes that an appropriate analysis of its profitability cannot be effectively considered without reporting these non-GAAP financial measures. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., August 2, 2006)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2006. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a second quarter dividend of $0.10 per share, payable on September 12, 2006 to stockholders of record on August 18, 2006.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended June 30, 2006:
 
2-2-2
"We are very pleased with our continued strong sales and earnings growth in the second quarter across a broad range of our key products," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Furthermore, we are making excellent progress in preparing for the launch of GANFORT in Europe and JUVDERM in the United States."
 
3-3-3
Product and Pipeline Update
During the second quarter of 2006:
Outlook
For the full year of 2006:
 
4-4-4
 
5-5-5
For the third quarter of 2006, Allergan estimates:
A reconciliation of the adjustments made from GAAP diluted earnings per share guidance to adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance is contained in the financial tables of this press release.
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding new product development, market potential, expected growth, efficiencies, costs and savings, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance, of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
 
6-6-6
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2005 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
With more than 55 years of experience providing high-quality, science-based products, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, discovers, develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics, obesity intervention and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
About Allergan, Inc.
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
Allergan Contacts
Marks owned by Allergan, Inc.
ACULAR, a trademark of Roche Palo Alto LLC
JUVEDERM is a trademark of LEA Derm
 
7-7-7
 
8-8-8
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three months ended June 30, 2006 and June 24, 2005. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
9-9-9
 
10-10-10
 
11-11-11
 
12-12-12
Product net sales, as reported
 
13-13-13
Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales
In this press release, Allergan reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales. Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales represents reported sales adjusted to exclude prior period net sales for Japan. Allergan shifted to a third party license and distribution business model for its operations in Japan in 2005 and accordingly has recorded no current period pharmaceutical product net sales for the Japan operations. Allergan uses adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of net sales of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
14-14-14
 
15-15-15


