FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20061101093109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 1, 2006, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the third quarter ended September 29, 2006. In its press release, Allergan included historical and future estimated non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, with respect to the three and nine month periods ended September 29, 2006, as well as the corresponding periods in 2005. Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings," "adjusted diluted earnings," "adjusted earnings per share" and "adjusted diluted earnings per share." These measures exclude purchase accounting adjustments related to inventory and in-process research and development and integration, transition costs and income taxes associated with the acquisition of Inamed; amortization of acquired intangible assets associated with the acquisition of Inamed; restructuring activities and transition and duplicate operating expenses; a contribution to The Allergan Foundation; the reversal of interest expense related to resolution of uncertain tax positions; an unfavorable income tax adjustment for a previously filed income tax return currently under examination; a decrease in the amount of income taxes previously estimated for the 2005 repatriation of foreign earnings that had been permanently re-invested outside the United States; the reversal of the valuation allowance against a deferred tax asset that Allergan has determined is now realizable: the resolution of uncertain tax positions due to completion of an IRS examination for tax years 2000 through 2002; the favorable recovery of previously paid state income taxes; the reversal of estimated interest income and expense related to previously paid state income taxes and tax settlements; the incurrence of accrued costs for a previously disclosed contingency involving non-income taxes in Brazil related to a longstanding administrative matter for the payment of certain sales taxes for years prior to 2000, for which Allergan management determined it is probable that Allergan could sustain a liability for unpaid taxes, including interest and penalties; and the effect of the unrealized gain/loss on the mark-to-market adjustment to foreign currency derivative instruments.
Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of "adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales." Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales represents reported sales adjusted to exclude prior period net sales for Japan. Allergan shifted to a third party license and distribution business model for its operations in Japan in 2005 and accordingly has recorded no pharmaceutical product net sales for its Japan operations in 2006.
Allergan uses adjusted earnings and adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings, adjusted diluted earnings and adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales provide consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings, adjusted diluted earnings and adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales are some of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses these measures for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
In the press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by Allergan may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
The non-GAAP financial measures reported by Allergan have limited applicability because they exclude expenses actually incurred by Allergan, Allergan believes that an appropriate analysis of its profitability cannot be effectively considered without reporting these non-GAAP financial measures. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Table of Contents
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., November 1, 2006)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the third quarter ended September 29, 2006. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a third quarter dividend of $0.10 per share, payable on December 7, 2006 to stockholders of record on November 10, 2006.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended September 29, 2006:
 
2-2-2
The items above included in diluted earnings per share total $38.4 million, which consist of $81.5 million pre-tax, less $43.1 million related to the provision for income taxes.
 
3-3-3
"Strong organic double digit sales growth continues on a broad basis in our ophthalmology and BOTOX businesses," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Furthermore, we are pleased with the progress and completion of a substantial part of the integration of Inamed which is now part of our newly established Allergan Medical division. The Inamed products have even greater potential than we had originally estimated."
Product and Pipeline Update
During the third quarter of 2006:
Following the end of the third quarter of 2006:
 
4-4-4
On September 20, 2006, Allergan stockholders approved an amendment to Allergan's restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to increase the authorized number of shares of common stock from 300 million to 500 million.
Outlook
For the full year of 2006:
 
5-5-5
 
6-6-6
For the fourth quarter of 2006, Allergan estimates:
A reconciliation of the adjustments made from GAAP diluted earnings per share guidance to adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance is contained in the financial tables of this press release.
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding new product development, market potential, expected growth, efficiencies, costs and savings, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. This press release also contains forward-looking statements regarding the proposed business combination between Allergan and Groupe Corneal Laboratoires, and the anticipated consequences and benefits of such transaction. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician
 
7-7-7
acceptance, of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can materially affect Allergan's results. Risks and uncertainties relating to the proposed transaction between Allergan and Groupe Corneal Laboratoires include: that required regulatory approvals will not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all; that the anticipated benefits and synergies of the transaction will not be realized; that the integration of Groupe Corneal Laboratoires' operations with Allergan will be materially delayed or will be more costly or difficult than expected; and that the proposed transaction will not be consummated. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2005 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
About Allergan, Inc.
With more than 55 years of experience providing high-quality, science-based products, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, discovers, develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics, obesity intervention and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
Marks owned by Allergan, Inc.
JUVEDERM is a trademark of LEA Derm
 
8-8-8
 
 
9-9-9
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three months ended September 29, 2006 and September 30, 2005. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
10-10-10
 
 
11-11-11
 
12-12-12
 
13-13-13
 
14-14-14
 
15-15-15
 
16-16-16
Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales
 
In this press release, Allergan reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales. Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales represents reported sales adjusted to exclude prior period net sales for Japan. Allergan shifted to a third party license and distribution business model for its operations in Japan in 2005 and accordingly has recorded no current period pharmaceutical product net sales for the Japan operations. Allergan uses adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of net sales of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
17-17-17
 
 
18-18-18


