FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20061204163042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") announced that, effective December 4, 2006, Dr. Deborah Dunsire has been appointed to Allergan's Board of Directors (the "Board"). Dr. Dunsire will serve as a Class I director and her term on the Board will expire at Allergan's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. Dr. Dunsire will serve as a member of the Corporate Governance Committee and the Science and Technology Committee of the Board.
     For her Board service, Dr. Dunsire will receive an annual cash retainer of $40,000 (beginning January 1, 2007), $2,000 for each Board meeting attended and $1,000 for each Board committee meeting attended. Dr. Dunsire will participate in the Allergan, Inc. 2003 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan (the "Director Plan") and, effective at Allergan's 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, will receive a grant of 4,800 shares of restricted stock, which restricted stock shall vest at a rate of 2,400 shares per year for the remainder of Dr. Dunsire's term on the Board. Under the Director Plan, Dr. Dunsire will also receive an option to purchase 5,700 shares of Allergan common stock on the date of Allergan's 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, with a per share exercise price equal to the fair market value of a share of Allergan common stock on the date of grant. In addition, Dr. Dunsire will be eligible to participate in the Deferred Directors' Fee Program, which permits Allergan's directors to defer all or a portion of their Board retainer and Board meeting fees until termination of their status as a Board member. Dr. Dunsire will also be entitled to indemnification pursuant to a standard director Indemnity Agreement with Allergan.
     There are no understandings or arrangements between Dr. Dunsire and any other person pursuant to which Dr. Dunsire was selected to serve as a director of Allergan. There are no family relationships between Dr. Dunsire and any director, executive officer or person nominated or chosen by Allergan to become a director or executive officer, and there are no transactions between Dr. Dunsire or any immediate family member and Allergan or any of its subsidiaries.
     The full text of the press release relating to Dr. Dunsire's Board appointment is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., December 4, 2006)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE:AGN) today announced the appointment of Dr. Deborah Dunsire to the Company's Board of Directors. Dr. Dunsire will initially serve as a member of the Corporate Governance Committee and the Science and Technology Committee.
Dr. Dunsire is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., an oncology and inflammation-focused biopharmaceutical company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Dr. Dunsire joined Millennium in July 2005 with nearly 20 years of experience in the commercial, operational, clinical and scientific aspects of the pharmaceutical industry.
Prior to joining Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Dr. Dunsire led the Novartis U.S. Oncology Business, playing a critical role in the broad development and successful launch of a number of products, including Zometa, Femara and Gleevec. Dr. Dunsire was also responsible for managing the merger and significant growth of the combined Sandoz Pharmaceuticals and Ciba-Geigy oncology businesses and evaluated and implemented key business development initiatives. Dr. Dunsire served on the U.S. pharmaceutical executive committee at Novartis, and was a member of the operating committee charged with defining corporate strategy, managing operations and assessing executive performance. Dr. Dunsire is currently a board member of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA).
Earlier in her career, Dr. Dunsire was a clinical researcher responsible for the implementation of global phase II and phase III studies across multiple therapeutic areas such as immunology, endocrinology, neurology, dermatology, oncology and transplantation. At Novartis, Dr. Dunsire held various positions with increasing responsibility in South Africa, Switzerland and the United States. Prior to joining the pharmaceutical industry, Dr. Dunsire was a practicing physician.
"Allergan is very excited that Dr. Dunsire has chosen to join our Board. Dr. Dunsire's global experience, her extensive knowledge of the pharmaceutical industry and her insights as both a clinical researcher and a physician are invaluable," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "I am confident that Dr. Dunsire's unique and broad background will be an asset to Allergan as we continue to expand our research and development programs and build out our areas of therapeutic interest."
 
2-2-2
Dr. Dunsire was the 2001 recipient of the American Cancer Society Excalibur Award and the 2000 recipient of the Health Care Business Women's Association Rising Star Award. Dr. Dunsire is a graduate of the medical school of the University of the Witwatersrand, South Africa.
Statements regarding future plans, forecasts, and events, including the statements from Mr. Pyott above, are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and intentions only. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the Company's expectations. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law. Information concerning risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2005 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 2006. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan are available on the World Wide Web at www.allergan.com, or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 1-714-246-4636.
Forward-Looking Statements
With more than 55 years of experience providing high-quality, science-based products, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, discovers, develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics, obesity intervention and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
About Allergan, Inc.
SOURCE: Allergan, Inc.
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
Allergan Contacts


