FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20060503093100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 3, 2006, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006.
In its press release, Allergan included historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, with respect to the three month period ended March 31, 2006, as well as the corresponding period for 2005. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In the press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
In the press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measures of constant currency sales and adjusted total net sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Adjusted total net sales represents reported sales adjusted to exclude prior period net sales for Japan and other sales, primarily consisting of sales to Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO) pursuant to a manufacturing and supply agreement entered into as part of the AMO spin-off. This manufacturing and supply agreement terminated in 2005. Allergan shifted to a third party license and distribution business model for its operations in Japan in 2005 and accordingly has recorded no current period product net sales for the Japan operations. Allergan uses adjusted total net sales to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted total net sales provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of net sales of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted total net sales is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted total net sales for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes. Constant currency sales and adjusted total net sales as defined and presented by Allergan may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
99.1 Allergan, Inc. press release dated May 3, 2006.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
(IRVINE, Calif., May 3, 2006)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a first quarter dividend of $0.10 per share, payable on June 13, 2006 to stockholders of record on May 19, 2006.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended March 31, 2006:
 
"I am extremely pleased with the very strong sales growth across a broad range of products, regions and businesses in the first quarter, driven by our strong investments in sales and marketing programs as well as R&D." said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Furthermore, we are making excellent progress in integrating Inamed's operations and are successfully establishing ourselves as the leading specialist company in medical aesthetics, providing a wide range of innovative products to plastic surgeons and dermatologists."
On March 23, 2006, Allergan announced that it completed its acquisition of Inamed Corporation. The acquisition of Inamed expands Allergan's global position as a premier specialty pharmaceutical and medical device company in high-growth markets and creates a world-leading medical aesthetics franchise, providing a broad, complementary portfolio of pharmaceutical and medical device products and offerings to physicians and patients.
Inamed Acquisition
As previously discussed, the first quarter net sales reported by Allergan exclude sales of products acquired in the Inamed acquisition. Total Inamed net sales were $99.4 million for the first quarter of 2006. Actions to reduce in-channel inventory affected ex-factory sales. Based upon second quarter run rates, we are confirming the Inamed sales guidance provided on March 27, 2006.
 
Product and Pipeline Update
During the first quarter of 2006:
On February 2, 2006, Allergan announced that F. Michael Ball assumed the position of President, Allergan effective February 1, 2006. Additionally, Allergan announced the appointment of Raymond Diradoorian to Executive Vice President, Global Technical Operations. With the appointment of Mr. Ball to President, David E.I. Pyott maintained his positions as Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.
Following the end of the first quarter, Allergan completed the concurrent private placements of $750 million aggregate principal amount of 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026, and $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due 2016. Allergan also announced that it will redeem the entire outstanding principal amount of its Zero Coupon Senior Convertible Notes due 2022 on May 15, 2006.
Outlook
For the full year of 2006:
 
For the second quarter of 2006, Allergan estimates:
In this press release, the statements regarding new product development, market potential, expected growth, efficiencies, costs and savings, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Forward-Looking Statements
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance, of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of
 
advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2005 Form 10-K. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global specialty pharmaceutical and medical device company that develops and commercializes innovative products for the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics and other specialty markets. Allergan is dedicated to delivering value to its customers, satisfying unmet medical needs, and improving people's lives.
About Allergan, Inc.
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Caroline VanHove (714) 246-5134 (media) Heather Katt (714) 246-6224 (media) Crystal Cienfuegos (714) 246-5842 (media)
Allergan Contacts
 
 
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three months ended March 31, 2006 and March 25, 2005. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
 
 
 
Net sales, as reported
Adjusted total net sales
In this press release, Allergan reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted total net sales. Adjusted total net sales represents reported sales adjusted to exclude prior period net sales for Japan and other sales, primarily consisting of sales to Advanced Medical Optics, Inc. (AMO) pursuant to a manufacturing and supply agreement entered into as part of the AMO spin-off. This manufacturing and supply agreement terminated in 2005. Allergan shifted to a third party license and distribution business model for its operations in Japan in 2005 and accordingly has recorded no current period product net sales for the Japan operations. Allergan uses adjusted total net sales to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted total net sales provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of net sales of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted total net sales is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted total net sales for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
 
 


