FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20060925153917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
This form 8-K/A is filed as a further amendment (Amendment No. 3) to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") on March 23, 2006 under Items 1.01, 2.01, 2.03 and 9.01, amended by Allergan on a Form 8-K/A filed on June 6, 2006 under Items 2.01 and 9.01 and on a Form 8-K/A filed on July 21, 2006 under Item 9.01. This Amendment No. 3 is being filed by Allergan to provide certain updated pro forma financial information.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.2
     The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of earnings for the six months ended June 30, 2006 combines the historical consolidated statements of earnings of Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan" or the "Company") for the six months ended June 30, 2006 as presented in its Form 10-Q and Inamed Corporation ("Inamed") for the period from January 1, 2006 through March 23, 2006 (date of acquisition), giving effect to Allergan's acquisition of Inamed as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2006.
     On March 23, 2006, Allergan completed the acquisition of Inamed, a global healthcare company that develops, manufactures, and markets a diverse line of products, including breast implants, a range of dermal products to correct facial wrinkles and products for the treatment of obesity. The acquisition has been treated as a purchase business combination for accounting purposes, and as such, the Inamed assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded at their respective fair values. The purchase price for the acquisition, including transaction costs, has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition (March 23, 2006). The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill. The Company expects that all such goodwill will not be deductible for tax purposes.
     The allocation of purchase price for acquisitions requires extensive use of accounting estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values. The purchase price for Inamed was allocated to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date (March 23, 2006). The Company engaged an independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining the estimated fair values of in-process research and development, identifiable intangible assets and certain tangible assets. Such a valuation requires significant estimates and assumptions, including but not limited to: determining the timing and estimated costs to complete the in-process projects, projecting regulatory approvals, estimating future cash flows, and developing appropriate discount rates. The Company believes the fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, respectively, are based on reasonable assumptions. The fair value estimates for the purchase price allocation may change if additional information becomes available.
     Certain reclassifications have been made to conform Inamed's historical amounts to Allergan's presentation.
     The unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of earnings is provided for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of earnings is not necessarily and should not be assumed to be an indication of the results that would have been achieved had the transaction been completed as of the dates indicated or that may be achieved in the future. Furthermore, no effect has been given for synergistic benefits that may be realized through the combination of the two companies or the costs that may be incurred in integrating their operations. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of earnings should be read in conjunction with the respective historical financial statements and the notes thereto that Allergan and Inamed have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
See Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Statement of Earnings
 
Note 1 Basis of Presentation
     On March 23, 2006, Allergan completed the acquisition of Inamed. The acquisition was completed pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger, dated as of December 20, 2005, and subsequently amended as of March 11, 2006, by and among Allergan, its wholly-owned Delaware subsidiary Banner Acquisition, Inc. ("Banner"), and Inamed (the "Merger Agreement"). The acquisition was accomplished through an exchange offer made by Banner to exchange all outstanding Inamed shares for either $84.00 in cash per Inamed share or 0.8498 of a share of Allergan common stock per Inamed share, subject to proration so that 45% of the aggregate Inamed shares tendered were exchanged for cash and 55% of the aggregate Inamed shares tendered were exchanged for shares of Allergan common stock. In the exchange offer, Allergan paid approximately $1.31 billion in cash and issued 16,194,051 shares of common stock for Banner to acquire approximately 93.86% of Inamed's outstanding common stock. Following the exchange offer, the remaining outstanding shares of Inamed common stock were acquired for approximately $81.7 million in cash and 1,010,576 shares of Allergan common stock through the merger of Banner with and into Inamed in a merger in which Inamed survived as Allergan's wholly-owned subsidiary. As a final step in the plan of reorganization, Allergan merged Inamed into Inamed, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Allergan, with Inamed, LLC surviving the merger.
     The consideration paid in the Inamed acquisition does not include shares of Allergan common stock and cash that were paid to former Inamed option holders for outstanding options to purchase shares of Inamed common stock, which were cancelled in the Inamed acquisition and converted into the right to receive an amount of cash equal to 45% of the "in the money" value of the option and a number of shares of Allergan common stock with a value equal to 55% of the "in the money" value of the option. Subsequent to the Inamed acquisition, Allergan issued 237,066 shares of common stock and paid $17.9 million in cash to satisfy its obligations to the Inamed option holders. The fair value of these shares of Allergan common stock and cash paid to option holders of Inamed common stock were included in the calculation of the purchase price.
     The allocation of the purchase price for acquisitions requires extensive use of accounting estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price to the identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values. The purchase price for the Inamed acquisition was allocated to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date (March 23, 2006). Allergan engaged an independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining the estimated fair values of in-process research and development, identifiable intangible assets and certain tangible assets. Such a valuation requires significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: determining the timing and estimated costs to complete the in-process projects, projecting regulatory approvals, estimating future cash flows, and developing appropriate discount rates. Allergan believes the fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, respectively, are based on reasonable assumptions. The fair value estimates for the purchase price allocation may change if additional information becomes available.
     The Inamed acquisition has been treated as a purchase business combination for accounting purposes, and as such, the Inamed assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded at fair value. The purchase price for the Inamed acquisition, including transaction costs, has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired was allocated to goodwill. Allergan expects that all such goodwill will not be deductible for tax purposes.
     The amount allocated to acquired in-process research and development represents an estimate of the fair value of purchased in-process technology for research projects that, as of the date of the closing of the Inamed acquisition (March 23, 2006), had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use. The values of the research projects were determined based on analyses using cash flows to be generated by the products that result from the in-process projects. These cash flows were estimated by forecasting total revenues expected from these products and then deducting appropriate operating expenses, cash flow adjustments and contributory asset returns to
 
establish a forecast of net cash flows arising from the in-process technology. These cash flows were substantially reduced to take into account the time value of money and the risks associated with the inherent difficulties and uncertainties given the projected stage of development of these projects at closing. An estimated amount of $579.3 million of the total purchase price has been allocated to acquired in-process research and development, which includes the estimated value of Inamed's silicone gel filled breast implant technology for use in the United States ($405.8 million), Juvderm, a non-animal based, cross-linked hyaluranic-acid dermal filler technology for use in the United States ($41.2 million) and Inamed's BioEnterics Intragastric Balloon (BIB) technology for use primarily in the United States ($132.3 million). All of these assets had not received approval by the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") as of the Inamed acquisition date of March 23, 2006. Because the in-process research and development assets had no alternative future use, they were charged to expense on the Inamed acquisition date. The amounts allocated to in-process research and development are reflected in Allergan's historical statement of earnings for the six months ended June 30, 2006, which is the period the acquisition was consummated.
     As of the Inamed acquisition date, the silicone breast implants, Model 410 and Round Responsive implants, were expected to be approved by the FDA in mid-2006 for the Round Responsive model and approximately six to twelve months thereafter for the Model 410. The Company's management estimated that the projects were approximately 90 percent complete as the patient data had been collected and submitted to the FDA, with remaining efforts focused on responding to FDA questions and compiling additional data regarding clinical trials and other information necessary to answer any additional FDA requests. Subject to final negotiations between the Company and the FDA, the Company expects that it will be required, as a condition of approval, to conduct extensive sets of ongoing studies (committed patient breast implant follow-up, or "BIF," studies) for both the Model 410 and Round Responsive breast implants extending out 10 years after FDA approval.
     As of the Inamed acquisition date, the Juvderm dermal filler technology was expected to be approved by the FDA in mid-2006. As of the acquisition date, all clinical trial patient data had been filed with the FDA, and the FDA had recently completed its inspection of the manufacturing process. Remaining efforts focused on meetings with the FDA and responding to FDA questions and requests. Subsequently on June 5, 2006, Juvderm received approval by the FDA.
     As of the Inamed acquisition date, the BioEnterics Intragastric Balloon (BIB) technology was expected to be approved in late 2008. Remaining efforts will be focused on completing discussions with the FDA regarding study design and performing a future clinical trial to pursue a PMA approval in the United States.
     Allergan funded part of the cash portion of the purchase price by borrowing $825 million under a bridge credit facility. In April 2006, Allergan issued $800 million in 5.75% Senior Notes due 2016 and used the proceeds from this issuance to repay the borrowings under the bridge credit facility. For purposes of the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of earnings, the Senior Notes were assumed to have been issued on the date the Inamed acquisition was completed and no borrowings were assumed under the bridge credit facility.
     In connection with the acquisition, Inamed divested its exclusive U.S. sales rights to Reloxin, a botulinum toxin Type A product that has not yet been approved for sale in the United States. The gain on the sale of Reloxin is reflected in Inamed's historical statement of earnings as a reduction of merger expense.
Note 2 Pro Forma Adjustments
 
 


