FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20060303170739.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 3, 2006, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing revised operating results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to operating results furnished on the Form 8-K filed by Allergan with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on February 2, 2006. The updated operating results are due to a settlement reached by Allergan with the United States Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") regarding certain tax disputes associated with Allergan's acquisition of Allergan Specialty Therapeutics, Inc. ("ASTI") in 2001. The updated operating results will be reflected in Allergan's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Based on the settlement, the previously released financial information for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005, as furnished on the Form 8-K filed by Allergan with the SEC on February 2, 2006, should not be relied on. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
In its press release, Allergan included historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC, with respect to the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2005, as well as the corresponding periods for 2004. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In the press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
In the press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by Allergan may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
99.1 Allergan, Inc. press release dated March 3, 2006.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
IRVINE, Calif., March 3, 2006 - - Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced that on March 1, 2006, after the publication of Allergan's fourth quarter and full year earnings release but before the filing of Allergan's 2005 Form 10-K, Allergan and the United States Internal Revenue Service entered into an agreement resolving certain tax disputes and permitting Allergan to release a valuation allowance taken in the fourth quarter of 2005 and certain tax contingencies established in prior periods. As a result of the settlement with the Internal Revenue Service and the reversal of these allowances and contingencies, the Company's fourth quarter and full year 2005 GAAP diluted earnings per share ("EPS") reported in the yet-to-be-filed 2005 Form 10-K will increase 13 cents from $0.90 and $2.88 as was reported in the Company's February 2, 2006 earnings release to $1.03 and $3.01, respectively.
In the fourth quarter of 2005, Allergan determined that it was required to record a valuation allowance against a deferred tax asset associated with the 2001 acquisition of Allergan Specialty Therapeutics, Inc. ("ASTI"). After the close of the fourth quarter of 2005, but prior to the filing of Allergan's 2005 Form 10-K, Allergan held a settlement conference with the Internal Revenue Service and negotiated a settlement with respect to the issue underlying the requirement to record the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. As a result of the settlement, Allergan determined that it is no longer required to record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset, which has the effect of increasing the Company's reported GAAP diluted EPS by 9 cents. Likewise, because the Company's current written policy for determining adjusted EPS does not contemplate an intra-quarter tax adjustment such as this, the reversal of the allowance has the effect of increasing adjusted diluted EPS by 9 cents as well. Due to this settlement, adjusted diluted EPS in 2005 grew by 23% in comparison to 2004.
Had the Company not obtained this settlement, and thus maintained the established valuation allowance, 2005 adjusted diluted EPS would have been $3.29, a 20% increase over 2004 adjusted diluted EPS; likewise, the Company's projected 2006 EPS guidance of $3.76 to $3.82, which excludes a $0.20 negative impact related to the expensing of stock options in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), , represents a 14%-16% increase over the pre-settlement EPS number for 2005.
Share-Based Payment
In addition, as part of the settlement noted above, the Company will be releasing $5.9 million of accrued reserves for income tax contingencies related to certain other related issues associated with the acquisition of ASTI. The diluted EPS impact of 4 cents for this adjustment will be reflected in the Company's GAAP earnings reported in the 2005 Form 10-K, but will not have an impact on the Company's adjusted diluted EPS.
 
2-2-2
About Allergan, Inc.
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global health care company providing specialty pharmaceutical products worldwide. Allergan develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" regarding Allergan's earnings for 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2005. These statements are based on current expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from Allergan's expectations and projections. Risks and uncertainties include additional adjustments that may be required to be made to historical operating results and management's judgments regarding contingencies reflected in Allergan's financial statements. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2004 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available on the World Wide Web at or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 1-714-246-4636.
www.allergan.com
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Ashwin Agarwal (714) 246-4582 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
Allergan Contacts:
 
3-3-3
 
4-4-4
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. Allergan believes that its presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted earnings provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of results of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
5-5-5
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
See non-GAAP financial measures disclosure on previous page.
 
6-6-6
 
7-7-7
(a) Including inventory adjustments reported in cost of sales of $(0.1) million and $0.2 million for the three and twelve month periods ending December 31, 2005, respectively.
 
8-8-8
(a) Including inventory adjustments reported in cost of sales of $(0.1) million and $0.2 million for the three and twelve month periods ending December 31, 2005, respectively.


