FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20060412172128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On April 6, 2006, Allergan, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a purchase agreement with Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the initial purchasers named therein (the "Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement"). Under the Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement, the Company agreed to sell $750 million aggregate principal amount (including the over-allotment option that was granted to the initial purchasers and subsequently exercised by them) of its 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the "Convertible Notes") to the initial purchasers named therein (the "Convertible Notes Initial Purchasers"). Concurrently with entering into the Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement, the Company entered into a purchase agreement with Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (the "Senior Notes Purchase Agreement" and, together with the Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement, the "Purchase Agreements") under which it agreed to sell $800 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.75% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "Senior Notes") to the initial purchasers named therein (the "Senior Note Initial Purchasers" and, together with the Convertible Notes Initial Purchasers, the "Initial Purchasers"). The Company estimates that the net proceeds from these two offerings will be approximately $1.53 billion after deducting discounts, commissions and estimated expenses. Copies of the Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement and the Senior Notes Purchase Agreement are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The descriptions of the Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement and the Senior Notes Purchase Agreement in this Current Report on Form 8-K are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the Convertible Notes Purchase Agreement and Senior Notes Purchase Agreement, as applicable.
     The closings of the sales of the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes occurred on April 12, 2006. The Senior Notes, Convertible Notes and the shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), issuable in certain circumstances upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Convertible Notes and Senior Notes were offered in private placement transactions to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act and the Senior Notes were also offered to non-U.S. persons in offshore transactions pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Company relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the Initial Purchasers in the respective Purchase Agreements.
     The Convertible Notes and Senior Notes are the Company's general unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with the Company's existing and future unsubordinated debt. The Convertible Notes and Senior Notes will be effectively subordinated to any secured debt the Company incurs to the extent of the collateral securing such indebtedness, and will be structurally subordinated to all future and existing obligations of the Company's subsidiaries.
     The Convertible Notes are governed by an indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "Convertible Notes Indenture"), between the Company and Wells Fargo, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). A copy of the Convertible Notes Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Senior Notes are governed by an indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "Senior Notes Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee. A copy of the Senior Notes Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2 and is incorporated herein by reference. The descriptions of the Convertible Notes Indenture, the Senior Notes Indenture, the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes in this Current Report on Form 8-K are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the Convertible Notes Indenture, the Senior Notes Indenture, the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes, as applicable.
     The Convertible Notes will bear interest at a rate of 1.50% per year and the Senior Notes will bear interest at a rate of 5.75% per year, in each case payable semiannually in arrears in cash on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on October 1, 2006. The Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes will mature on April 1, 2026 and April 1, 2016, respectively.
     The Convertible Notes will be convertible into cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock based on an initial conversion rate of 7.8952 shares of Common Stock per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $126.66 per share), subject to adjustment, only under the following circumstances: (i) during any fiscal quarter beginning after June 30, 2006 (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the closing price of the Common Stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is more than 120% of the applicable conversion price per share, which is $1,000 divided by the then applicable conversion rate; (ii) the Company calls the Convertible Notes for redemption; (iii) if specified distributions to holders of the Common Stock are made, or specified corporate transactions occur; or (iv) at any time on or after February 1, 2026 through the business day immediately preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, a holder will receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) the principal amount of the Convertible Note or (ii) the conversion value, determined in the manner set forth in the Convertible Notes Indenture. If the conversion value exceeds the principal amount of the Convertible Note on the conversion date, the Company will also deliver, at its election, cash or Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock for the conversion value in excess of $1,000. Holders who convert their
 
Convertible Notes in connection with a change in control may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. In the event of a change of control, in lieu of paying holders a make whole premium, if applicable, the Company may elect, in some circumstances, to adjust the conversion rate and related conversion obligations so that the Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of the acquiring or surviving company. On April 1, 2011, April 1, 2016 and April 1, 2021, or upon specified change of control events, holders of the Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase any outstanding Convertible Note for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being offered plus accrued and unpaid interest up to but excluding the purchase date.
     The Senior Notes may be redeemed by the Company at any time and from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of Senior Notes to be redeemed, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments on such Senior Notes, as further detailed in the Senior Notes Indenture. The Company may, at any time and from time to time, without notice to or consent of the holders of the Senior Notes, create and issue additional notes having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms of the Senior Notes in all respects (or in all respects except for the payment of interest accruing prior to the issue date of the new notes or except for the first payment of interest following the issue date of the new notes) so that the new notes may be consolidated and form a single series of notes with, and have the same terms as to status, redemption or otherwise as, the Senior Notes.
     In connection with the sale of the Convertible Notes, the Company entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of April 12, 2006, with the Convertible Notes Initial Purchasers (the "Convertible Notes Registration Rights Agreement"). Under the Convertible Notes Registration Rights Agreement, the Company has agreed to use its reasonable efforts to cause to become effective within 180 days after the closing of the offering of the Convertible Notes, a shelf registration statement with respect to the resale of the Convertible Notes and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. The Company will use its reasonable efforts to keep the shelf registration statement effective until the earlier of (i) two years after the last date of the original issuance of any of the Convertible Notes, (ii) the sale pursuant to the shelf registration statement of all the Convertible Notes or the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes or (iii) the date when the holders of the Convertible Notes and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof are able to sell all such securities immediately without restriction pursuant to the volume limitation provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The Company will be required to pay additional interest, subject to some limitations, to the holders of the Convertible Notes if it fails to comply with its obligations to register the Convertible Notes and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. A copy of the Convertible Notes Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.3 and is incorporated herein by reference; the description of the Convertible Notes Registration Rights Agreement in this Current Report on Form 8-K is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Convertible Notes Registration Rights Agreement.
     In connection with the sale of the Senior Notes, the Company entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of April 12, 2006, with the Senior Notes Initial Purchasers (the "Senior Notes Registration Rights Agreement") in which the Company agreed to: (i) file a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the Senior Notes for a new issue of substantially identical notes registered under the Securities Act on or prior to 120 days after the issue date of the Senior Notes; (ii) use the Company's reasonable best efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective on or prior to 180 days after the issue date of the Senior Notes; (iii) commence the exchange offer promptly after the effectiveness of the registration statement; (iv) keep the exchange offer open for not less than 20 business days and not more than 30 business days after notice of the exchange offer is mailed to holders of the Senior Notes; (v) complete the exchange offer within 210 days after the issue date of the Senior Notes; and (vi) file a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the Senior Notes if the Company cannot effect an exchange offer within the time periods listed above and under certain other circumstances. The Company will be required to pay additional amounts, subject to some limitations, to the holders of the Senior Notes if it fails to comply with its obligations to register the Senior Notes. A copy of the Senior Notes Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.4 and is incorporated herein by reference; the description of the Senior Notes Registration Rights Agreement in this Current Report on Form 8-K is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Senior Notes Registration Rights Agreement.
     The Company has agreed that for a period of 90 days following April 12, 2006, without the prior written consent of certain of the Initial Purchasers, it will not (i) directly or indirectly, offer, sell or contract to sell, or otherwise dispose of, or announce the offering of, any debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company (other than the Convertible Notes and the Senior Notes) or (ii) dispose of or hedge any debt securities with terms substantially similar to the Convertible Notes, or any shares of its Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for its Common Stock. The Company may, however, issue and sell its common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of its common stock (i) pursuant to employee stock option plans, stock ownership plans or dividend reinvestment plans, (ii) upon the exercise of options or warrants outstanding on the date of the purchase agreement, or (iii) in connection with acquisition or business combination transactions.
     The Initial Purchasers and their affiliates have performed various financial advisory, investment banking and commercial banking services from time to time for the Company and its affiliates for which they received customary fees and expenses.
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     The information included in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
     The information included in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.02.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1 ================================================================================ ALLERGAN, INC. 1.50% CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTES DUE 2026 ---------- INDENTURE DATED APRIL 12, 2006 ---------- WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, AS TRUSTEE ================================================================================
CROSS REFERENCE TABLE* * Note: This Cross Reference Table shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be part of the Indenture. i
N.A. means Not Applicable. ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
ARTICLE 4 REPURCHASE AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER Section 4.01. Purchase of Securities at Option of the Holder On Specified Dates........................................... 29 Section 4.02. Purchase of Securities at Option of the Holder upon Change in Control................................................ 32 Section 4.03. Effect of Change in Control Purchase Notice............... 36 Section 4.04. Deposit of Change in Control Purchase Price............... 37 Section 4.05. Securities Purchased in Part.............................. 37 Section 4.06. Repayment to the Company.................................. 38 ARTICLE 5 COVENANTS Section 5.01. Payment of Securities..................................... 38 Section 5.02. SEC and Other Reports..................................... 39 Section 5.03. Compliance Certificate.................................... 39 Section 5.04. Further Instruments and Acts.............................. 39 Section 5.05. Maintenance of Office or Agency........................... 39 Section 5.06 Tax Payments.............................................. 40 ARTICLE 6 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION Section 6.01. When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets................. 40 Section 6.02. Successor Corporation Substituted......................... 41 ARTICLE 7 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES Section 7.01. Events of Default......................................... 41 Section 7.02. Acceleration.............................................. 42 Section 7.03. Other Remedies............................................ 43 Section 7.04. Waiver of Past Defaults................................... 43 Section 7.05. Control by Majority....................................... 43 Section 7.06. Limitation on Suits....................................... 43 Section 7.07. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment...................... 44 Section 7.08. Collection Suit by Trustee................................ 44 Section 7.09. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.......................... 44 Section 7.10. Priorities................................................ 45 Section 7.11. Undertaking for Costs..................................... 45 Section 7.12. Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws................... 46
ii
ARTICLE 8 TRUSTEE Section 8.01. Duties of Trustee......................................... 46 Section 8.02. Rights of Trustee......................................... 47 Section 8.03. Individual Rights of Trustee etc.......................... 47 Section 8.04. Trustee's Disclaimer...................................... 47 Section 8.05. Notice of Defaults........................................ 48 Section 8.06. Reports by Trustee to Holders............................. 48 Section 8.07. Compensation and Indemnity................................ 48 Section 8.08. Replacement of Trustee.................................... 48 Section 8.09. Successor Trustee by Merger............................... 49 Section 8.10. Eligibility; Disqualification............................. 49 Section 8.11. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company......... 49 ARTICLE 9 DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE Section 9.01. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture................... 50 Section 9.02. Application Of Trust Funds; Indemnification............... 51 Section 9.03. Repayment to the Company.................................. 51 ARTICLE 10 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES Section 10.01. Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Holders........ 51 Section 10.02. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders........... 52 Section 10.03. Compliance with Trust Indenture Act....................... 52 Section 10.04. Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions.... 52 Section 10.05. Notation on or Exchange of Securities..................... 53 Section 10.06. Trustee to Sign Supplemental, Indentures.................. 53 Section 10.07. Effect of Supplemental Indentures......................... 53 ARTICLE 11 CONVERSION Section 11.01. Conversion Privilege...................................... 53 Section 11.02. Conversion Procedure...................................... 56 Section 11.03. Fractional Shares......................................... 58 Section 11.04. Effect of Conversion...................................... 58 Section 11.05. Taxes on Conversion....................................... 58 Section 11.06. Company to Provide Stock.................................. 58
iii
Section 11.07. Adjustment for Change In Capital Stock.................... 59 Section 11.08. Adjustment for Rights Issue............................... 60 Section 11.09. Adjustment for Other Distributions........................ 61 Section 11.10. Adjustment for Cash Dividends............................. 63 Section 11.11. Adjustment for Tender Offer............................... 64 Section 11.12. Adjustment to Conversion Rate Upon Change in Control Transactions.............................................. 65 Section 11.13. Adjustment to Conversion Rate After a Public Acquirer Change in Control......................................... 65 Section 11.14. When Adjustment May Be Deferred........................... 67 Section 11.15. When No Adjustment Required............................... 67 Section 11.16. Notice of Adjustment...................................... 68 Section 11.17. Voluntary Increase........................................ 69 Section 11.18. Notice of Certain Transactions............................ 69 Section 11.19. Reorganization of Company; Special Distributions.......... 69 Section 11.20. Company Determination Final............................... 70 Section 11.21. Trustee's Adjustment Disclaimer........................... 70 Section 11.22. Simultaneous Adjustments.................................. 70 Section 11.23. Successive Adjustments.................................... 71 Section 11.24. Rights Issued in Respect of Common Stock Issued Upon Conversion................................................ 71 Section 11.25. Withholding Taxes for Adjustments in Conversion Rate...... 71 ARTICLE 12 PAYMENT OF INTEREST Section 12.01. Interest Payments......................................... 71 Section 12.02. Defaulted Interest........................................ 72 Section 12.03. Interest Rights Preserved................................. 73 ARTICLE 13 MISCELLANEOUS Section 13.01. Trust Indenture Act Controls.............................. 73 Section 13.02. Notices................................................... 73 Section 13.03. Communication by Holders with Other Holders............... 74 Section 13.04. Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent........ 74 Section 13.05. Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion............. 74 Section 13.06. Separability Clause....................................... 74 Section 13.07. Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar.............. 74
iv
Section 13.08. Legal Holidays............................................ 74 Section 13.09. Governing Law............................................. 74 Section 13.10. No Recourse Against Others................................ 75 Section 13.11. Successors................................................ 75 Section 13.12. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.................. 75 Section 13.13. Benefits of Indenture..................................... 75 Section 13.14. Multiple Originals........................................ 76
Exhibit A Form of Security Exhibit B Assignment Form Exhibit C Form of Conversion Notice Exhibit D Form of Repurchase Notice Exhibit E Form of Change in Control Purchase Notice v
INDENTURE dated as of April 12, 2006 between ALLERGAN INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association, as trustee ("Trustee"). Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities: ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE SECTION 1.01. Definitions. "Additional Interest" means all additional interest then owing pursuant to Section 8 of the Registration Rights Agreement. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agent" means any Registrar and Paying Agent. "Applicable Conversion Rate" means the Conversion Rate as adjusted in accordance with Article 11 on any Trading Day. For purposes of determining the Conversion Value, the Applicable Conversion Rate means the Conversion Rate on the Conversion Date. "Applicable Price" in connection with a Change in Control, means (i) if the consideration (excluding cash payment for fractional shares or pursuant to statutory rights) to be paid to holders of the common stock in connection with such transaction consist exclusively of cash, the amount of such cash per share of the common stock; and (ii) in all other cases, the average of the Sale Prices for the five consecutive Trading Days immediately preceding, but not including, the related effective date of such transaction. "Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper, in the English language or, at the option of the Company, in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in the place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different Authorized Newspapers meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day. "Average Closing Price" means (1) with respect to distributions of rights, warrants or options, the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for the five (5) 1
consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first public announcement of the distribution and (2) with respect to other distributions, the average of the Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for the five (5) consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the Time of Determination. "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar Federal or state law for the relief of debtors. "Beneficial Ownership" means (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) more than 50% of the total voting power of all shares of the respective entity's capital stock that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such board. "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee. "Business Day" means any weekday that is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated to close. "Capital Stock" for any corporation means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation. "Cash Percentage" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.01. "Cash Percentage Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.01. "Cash Settlement Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.01. "Cash Settlement Notice Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.01. "Certificated Security" means a certificated Security registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.02(d) hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto except that such security shall not bear the Global Securities Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto. "Change in Control" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02. "Change in Control Effective Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.12. "Change in Control Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02. 2
"Change in Control Purchase Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02. "Change in Control Purchase Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02. "Change in Control Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.02. "Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking, Societe Anonyme. "Closing Price" of the Common Stock on any date means the closing per share sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and average ask prices) on such date as reported in composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, (i) as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated, or (ii) if such bid and ask prices are not reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated, in a manner to be determined by the Company on the basis of such quotation as the Company considers appropriate in its sole and absolute discretion. "Common Equity" of any Person means capital stock of such person that is generally entitled to (1) vote in the election of directors of such person or (2) if such person is not a corporation, vote or otherwise participate in the selection of the governing body, partners, managers or others that will control the management or policies of such person. "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share, as it exists on the date hereof and any shares of any class or classes of capital stock of the Company resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company and which are not subject to redemption by the Company; provided, however, that if at any time there shall be more than one such resulting class, the shares of each such class then so issuable on conversion of the Securities shall be substantially in the proportion which the total number of shares of such class resulting from all such reclassifications bears to the total number of shares of all such classes resulting from all such reclassifications. "Company" means the party named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. "Company Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.01. "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, its President or a 3
Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee. "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed, that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities. "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date. "Conversion Agent" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.04. "Conversion Date" means the date on which the Holder has complied with all requirements under this Indenture to convert such Security. "Conversion Obligation" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.12. "Conversion Price" means the result obtained by dividing $1,000 by the Applicable Conversion Rate. "Conversion Rate" means the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a Security per $1,000 of Principal Amount thereof, subject to adjustment pursuant to Article 11. "Conversion Reference Period" means the 20 consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Conversion Date or, if we elect to pay cash to Holders in lieu of all or a portion of the Net Share Amount, the third Trading Day after the Conversion Retraction Period ends. "Conversion Retraction Period" means if the Company timely elects to pay cash for any portion of the Net Share Amount, a holder may retract his or her Conversion Notice at any time during the two Business Day period immediately following the Cash Settlement Notice Period. "Conversion Trigger Price" means, with respect to any fiscal quarter, if the Sale Price for at least 20 Trading Days in a period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than 120% of the Conversion Price on the last day of such preceding fiscal quarter. "Conversion Value" means the product of (1) the Applicable Conversion Rate multiplied by (2) the average of the Sale Prices on each of the Trading Days during the Conversion Reference Period. "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time this Indenture shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 4 New York Plaza, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10004, Attention: Worldwide 4
Securities Services, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company). "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law. "Daily Share Amounts" means, for each Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period and each $1,000 Principal Amount of Securities surrendered for conversion, a number of shares of Common Stock (but in no event less than zero) determined by the following formula:
(Sale Price per share of Common Stock for Conversion Rate in effect on the such Trading Day x Conversion Date) - $1,000 - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Sale Price per share of Common Stock for such Trading Day x 20
The Conversion Rate in effect on the Conversion Date, for the purposes of this definition of Daily Share Amounts, will be appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence on or before such Trading Day of any event which would require an anti-dilution adjustment. "Default" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default. "Depositary" means, with respect to the Securities issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, the person designated as Depositary by the Company, which Depositary shall be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act; and if at any time there is more than one such person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Securities shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities. "Distribution Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.01. "Dividend Threshold Amount" means that distributions of cash to all holders of the Common Stock (excluding any quarterly cash dividend on our common stock to the extent that the aggregate cash dividend per share of the common stock in any fiscal quarter does not exceed $0.10. "Dollar" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts. "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company. "Euro-clear" means the operator of the Euro-clear System, an international securities clearing house. 5
"Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear Clearance System. "Event of Default" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.01. "Ex-Dividend Date" means the first date on which shares of the Common Stock trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive such issuance or distribution. "Ex-Dividend Time" the time immediately prior to the commencement of "ex-dividend" trading for such rights, warrants or options or distribution on the Nasdaq National Market or such other national or regional exchange or market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. "Ex-Dividend Time" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.01. "Funded Debt" means all indebtedness maturing one year or more from the date of the creation thereof, all indebtedness directly or indirectly renewable or extendable, at the option of the debtor, by its terms or by the terms of any instrument or agreement relating thereto, to a date one year or more from the date of the creation thereof, and all indebtedness under a revolving credit or similar agreement obligating the lender or lenders to extend credit over a period of one year or more. "Global Security Holder" means Cede & Co., the nominee of the Depository Trust Company. "Global Securities" the Securities offered hereby will be issued in the form of one or more fully registered Global Securities. "Global Security" means a permanent Global Security substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto that bears the Global Security Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto, and that represents all or part of the Securities and is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary. "Holder" is defined in the definition of Securityholder below. "Indebtedness" means with respect to the Company at any date, without duplication, obligations (other than nonrecourse obligations) for borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments. "Indenture" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof. 6
"Initial Conversion Price" means the result obtained by dividing $1,000 by the then Initial Conversion Rate. "Initial Conversion Rate" means 7.8952 shares of Common Stock per Principal Amount of $1,000, subject to adjustment pursuant to Article 11. "Interest Payment Date," when used with respect to any Security, means the date an installment of interest is due and payable on such Security. "Issue Date" of any Security means the date on which the Security was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Security. "Legal Holiday" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.08. "Legend" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.13. "Make-Whole Shares" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.12. "Market Disruption Event" means the occurrence or existence for more than one half hour period in the aggregate on any scheduled trading day of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the U.S. national securities exchange or The Nasdaq National Market (at such time that the Nasdaq National Market is not a U.S. national securities exchange) on which the Common Stock is listed) in the Common Stock or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day. "Market Price" means the average of the Sale Prices for the 10 consecutive Trading-Day period ending on the third Business Day (if the third Business Day prior to the applicable date is a Trading Day or, if not, then on the last Trading Day) prior to such date, appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence, during the period commencing on the first of such trading days during such 10 Trading-Day period and ending on such date, of certain events with respect to the Common Stock that would result in an adjustment of the Conversion Rate. "Maturity," means the date on which the Principal of a Security becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise. "Maturity Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01. "Net Share Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.01. "Notice of Default" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.01. "Notice of Redemption" means that the Company shall give Holders not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice of any optional redemption. 7
"Notice of Withdrawal" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.01. "Officer" means the chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Secretary, any Assistant Treasurer or any Assistant Secretary of the Company. "Officers' Certificate" means a written certificate signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee. "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 12.04 and 12.05, from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company or the Trustee. "Outstanding Securities" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.09. "Paying Agent" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.04. "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "Principal" or "Principal Amount" of a Security, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, means the outstanding principal of the Security. "Private Placement Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 2.13(g) to be placed on all Securities issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture. "Public Acquirer Change in Control" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.13. "Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.13. "Public Acquirer Common Stock" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.13. "Purchase Agreement" means the Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 6, 2006, by and among the Company, and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time. "Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.02. "QIB" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A. "Redemption Date" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, shall mean the date specified for redemption of such Security in accordance with the terms of such Security and this Indenture. 8
"Redemption Price" shall mean the price specified for redemption of such Security in accordance with the terms of such Security and this Indenture. "Reference Treasury Dealer" means Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, and any successor firm; provided that, if any of Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, the Company will substitute another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer. "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding that Redemption Date. "Registrar" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.04. "Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 12, 2006, by and among the Company, and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time. "Regular Record Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01. "Repurchase Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.01. "Repurchase Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.01. "Repurchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.01. "Required Cash Amount" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.01. "Restricted Certificated Security" means a Certificated Security bearing the Private Placement Legend. "Rule 144" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 144A Global Security" means a Global Security bearing the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Securities initially sold in reliance on Rule 144A. "Sale Price" means the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such Trading Day as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or, 9
if the common stock is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, as reported on the Nasdaq National Market (at such time that the Nasdaq National Market is not a U.S. national securities exchange). "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Securities" means the $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 issued and authenticated pursuant to this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Securityholder" or "Holder," when used with respect to any Security, means, in the case of a Certificated Security, a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books. "Settlement Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.01. "Significant Subsidiary" means a subsidiary that would constitute a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Article 1 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act as in effect on the date of the indenture. "Subsidiary" means a corporation of which a majority of the Capital Stock having voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the board of directors of such corporation is owned by (i) the Company, (ii) the Company and one or more Subsidiaries or (iii) one or more Subsidiaries. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture, except as provided in Section 9.03. "Time of Determination" means the time and date of the earlier of (i) the determination of stockholders entitled to receive rights, warrants or options or a distribution, in each case, to which Section 11.07, 11.08 or 11.10 applies and (ii) the Ex-Dividend Time. "Trading Day" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the U.S. national securities exchange or The Nasdaq National Market (at such time that the Nasdaq National Market is not a U.S. national securities exchange) on which the Common Stock is listed, admitted for trading or quoted, is open for trading or, if the Common Stock is not so listed, admitted for trading or quoted, any Business Day. A "Trading Day" only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system. "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Securities, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the third Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date. 10
"Trust Officer" means any officer of the Trustee assigned by the Trustee to administer its corporate trust matters. "Trustee" means the party named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. "United States" or "U.S." means the United States of America, its territories, its possessions (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico), and other areas subject to its jurisdiction. "Unrestricted Certificated Security" means one or more Certificated Securities that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend. "Unrestricted Global Security" means a permanent Global Security substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto that bears the Global Securities Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Security" attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of Securities that do not bear the Private Placement Legend. "Voting Stock" means, with respect to any corporation, association, company or business trust, stock or other securities of the class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of such corporation, association, company or business trust, provided that, for the purposes hereof, stock or other securities which carry only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered Voting Stock whether or not such event shall have happened. SECTION 1.02. Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act. If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties that would be imposed by any of Sections 310 to 317 of the TIA through operation of Section 318(c) thereof on any person if this Indenture were qualified under the TIA, such imposed duties shall control. Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings: "Commission" means the SEC. "indenture securities" means the Securities. "indenture security holder" means a Securityholder. "indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture. "indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee. "obligor" on the indenture securities means the Company and any successor obligor upon the Notes. 11
All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions. SECTION 1.03. Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires: (A) a term has the meaning assigned to it; (B) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time; (C) "or" is not exclusive; (D) "including" means including, without limitation; and (E) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular. ARTICLE 2 THE SECURITIES SECTION 2.01. Terms of the Securities. The entire outstanding principal of the Securities will mature on April 1, 2026 (the "Maturity Date"). The Securities shall be in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Securities shall be denominated in U.S. dollars and all payments of principal and interest on the Securities shall be made in U.S. dollars. The Securities shall bear interest at a rate of 1.50% per annum; the date from which interest shall accrue shall be April 12, 2006; the Interest Payment Dates for the Securities on which interest shall be payable shall be April 1 and October 1 in each year, beginning October 1, 2006; the Regular Record Dates for the interest payable on the Securities on any Interest Payment Date shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (each a "Regular Record Date"). Interest shall accrue on the basis of a 360-day year, consisting of twelve 30-day months. Interest on any Security shall be payable only to the Person in whose name that Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest payment. If any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity Date of the Securities is not a Business Day, then payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day. No interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity Date, as the case may be, to the date payment is made. The place of payment where the principal of and interest on the Securities shall be payable and the Securities may be surrendered for the registration of transfer or exchange shall 12
be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The place where notices or demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served shall be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The Securities will be redeemable at the option of the Company pursuant to Article III. SECTION 2.02. Form and Dating. The Securities shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A, which is a part of this Indenture. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement required by usage is in a form acceptable to the Company). The Company shall provide any such notations, legends or endorsements to the Trustee in writing. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. (a) Restricted Global Securities. All of the Securities are initially being offered and sold to QIBs in reliance on Rule 144A and shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Rule 144A Global Securities, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the securities represented thereby with the Trustee, at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the Depositary, which shall initially be DTC, and registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co. (or any successor thereto), for the accounts of participants in the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. (b) Global Securities in General. Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate Principal Amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate Principal Amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3, repurchases at the option of the Holders pursuant to Article 4 and conversions pursuant to Article 11. Except as provided in this Section 2.02, or in Sections 2.07 or 2.13 hereof, owners of beneficial interests in Global Securities will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Certificated Securities. Any adjustment of the aggregate Principal Amount of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the Principal Amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.13 hereof and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary, subject in each case to compliance with applicable procedures. (c) Book-Entry Provisions. This Section 2.02(c) shall apply only to Global Securities deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary. The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.02(c), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Securities that (a) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary, (b) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary 13
or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (c) shall bear legends substantially to the following effect: "UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS, IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF." (d) Certificated Securities. Securities not issued as interests in the Global Securities will be issued in certificated form substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto. SECTION 2.03. Execution and Authentication. (a) The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any Officer by manual or facsimile signature. (b) Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of an individual who was at the time of the execution of the Securities the proper Officer of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individual has ceased to hold such office prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such office at the date of authentication of such Securities. (c) No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for substantially in the form set forth on the form of Security attached as Exhibit A hereto duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized officer of the Trustee, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. 14
(d) The Securities shall be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 of Principal Amount and any integral multiple thereof. (e) The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any securities under this Section if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not be lawfully taken or if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders. SECTION 2.04. Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent. (a) The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange for other Securities ("Registrar"), an office or agency where Securities may be presented for purchase or payment ("Paying Agent") and an office or agency where Securities may be presented for conversion into Common Stock ("Conversion Agent"). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their registration of transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents, and one or more additional conversion agents. (b) The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar or co-registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent (other than the Trustee). The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 8.07. The Company or any Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, or Conversion Agent or co-registrar. (c) The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Conversion Agent and Paying Agent in connection with the Securities. SECTION 2.05. Paying Agent to Hold Money and Securities in Trust. Except as otherwise provided herein, by no later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on or prior to each due date of payments in respect of any Security, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) or Common Stock sufficient to make such payment when so becoming due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Securityholders or the Trustee all money and Common Stock held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Securities and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such default, the Paying Agent shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money and Common Stock so held in trust. If the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money and Common Stock held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money and Common Stock held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds and Common Stock disbursed by it. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money or Common Stock. 15
SECTION 2.06. Securityholder Lists. The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Securityholders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall cause to be furnished to the Trustee at least semiannually on March 15 and September 15 a listing of Securityholders dated within 15 days of the date on which the list is furnished and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Securityholders. SECTION 2.07. Transfer and Conversion. Subject to Section 2.13 hereof, (a) upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the Company designated as Registrar or co-registrar pursuant to Section 2.04, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate Principal Amount. The Company shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company or the Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the registration of transfer or exchange of the Securities from the Securityholder requesting such registration of transfer or exchange. At the option of the Holder, Certificated Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate Principal Amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Securityholder or such Securityholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. The Company shall not be required to make, and the Registrar need not register, and Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Securities to be purchased in part, the portion thereof not to be purchased.) (b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, so long as a Global Security remains outstanding and is held by or on behalf of the Depositary, transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.13 and this Section 2.07(b). Transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of such Global 16
Security in whole, or in part, to nominees of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or such successor's nominee. (c) Successive registrations and registrations of transfers and exchanges as aforesaid may be made from time to time as desired, and each such registration shall be noted on the register for the Securities. (d) Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.04 hereof shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery of Securities by such Registrar upon registration of transfer or exchange of Securities. (e) No Registrar shall be required to make registrations of transfer or exchange of Securities during any periods designated in the text of the Securities or in this Indenture as periods during which such registration of transfers and exchanges need not be made. SECTION 2.08. Replacement Securities. (a) If a mutilated Security is surrendered to the Registrar or if the Holder of a Security claims that the Security has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Security if the requirements of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York are met and the Holder satisfies any other reasonable requirements of the Trustee. If required by the Trustee or the Company, such Holder shall furnish an affidavit of loss and indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, the Trustee, any Agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Security is replaced, and, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and Principal Amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. (b) In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3 hereof, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay or purchase such Security, as the case may be. (c) Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section 2.08, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) in connection therewith. (d) Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section 2.08 in exchange for any mutilated Security, or in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and any other obligor upon the Securities, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder. 17
(e) The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities. SECTION 2.09. Outstanding Securities; Determinations of Holders' Action. (a) Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it, those paid pursuant to Section 2.08 and delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section 2.09 as not outstanding (the "Outstanding Securities"). A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate thereof holds the Security; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Principal Amount of Securities have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time of such determination shall be considered in any such determination (including, without limitation, determinations pursuant to Articles 6 and 8). (b) If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.08, the replaced Security ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to each of them that the replaced Security is held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Security is a valid obligation of the Company. (c) If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Purchase Date Change in Control Purchase Date, or a Maturity, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay Securities payable on that date, then immediately after such date, such Securities shall cease to be outstanding and interest on such Securities shall cease to accrue whether or not the Security is delivered to the Paying Agent. (d) If a Security is converted in accordance with Article 10, then from and after the time of conversion on a Conversion Date, such Security shall cease to be outstanding and interest shall cease to accrue on such Security. SECTION 2.10. Temporary Securities. (a) Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities. 18
(b) If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.04, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities, the Company shall execute and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like Principal Amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities. SECTION 2.11. Cancellation. All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption or purchase by the Company pursuant to Article 4, conversion or registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article 10. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedure. SECTION 2.12. Persons Deemed Owners. Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of the Security or the payment of any Change in Control Purchase Price in respect thereof, and interest thereon, for the purpose of conversion, and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. SECTION 2.13. Legend; Additional Transfer and Exchange Requirements. (a) If Securities are issued upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Securities subject to restrictions on transfer and bearing the legends set forth in Section 2.13(g) (collectively, the "Legend"), or if a request is made to remove the Legend on a Security, the Securities so issued shall bear the Legend, or the Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company and the Registrar such satisfactory evidence, which shall include an Opinion of Counsel, as may be reasonably required by the Company and the Registrar, that neither the Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the Securities Act or that such Securities are not "restricted" within the meaning of Rule 144 under 19
the Securities Act; provided that no such evidence need be supplied in connection with the sale of such Security pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale. Upon (1) provision of such satisfactory evidence if requested, or (2) notification by the Company to the Trustee and Registrar of the sale of such Security pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale, the Trustee, upon Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver a Security that does not bear the Legend. If the Legend is removed from the face of a Security and the Security is subsequently held by an Affiliate of the Company, the Legend shall be reinstated. (b) Subject to Sections 2.13(c)(i) and 2.13(f) and in compliance with Section 2.13(d), every Security shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in the Legend. Whenever any Restricted Security other than a Restricted Global Security is presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or in exchange for a Security registered in a name other than that of the Holder, such Security must be accompanied by a certificate, dated the date of such surrender and signed by the Holder of such Security, as to compliance with such restrictions on transfer. The Registrar shall not be required to accept for such registration of transfer or exchange any Security not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate. (c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, (A) transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.07 and Section 2.13(c)(i), (B) transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security for a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.07 and Section 2.13(c)(ii) below, and (C) transfers of a Certificated Security shall comply with Section 2.07 and Section 2.13(c)(iii) and (iv) below. (i) Transfer of Global Security. A Global Security may not be transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee or any successor thereof, and no such transfer to any such other Person may be registered; provided that this clause (i) shall not prohibit any transfer of a Security that is issued in exchange for a Global Security but is not itself a Global Security. No transfer of a Security to any Person shall be effective under this Indenture or the Securities unless and until such Security has been registered in the name of such Person. Nothing in this Section 2.13(c)(i) shall prohibit or render ineffective any transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security effected in accordance with the other provisions of this Section 2.13(c). (ii) Restrictions on Transfer of a Beneficial Interest in a Global Security for a Certificated Security. A beneficial interest in a Global Security may not be exchanged for a Certificated Security except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below. Upon receipt by the Trustee of a request for transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Security in accordance with applicable procedures for a Certificated Security in the form satisfactory to the Trustee including any information necessary to ensure compliance with the Securities Act, together with written instructions to the Trustee to make, or direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Security to reflect a decrease in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities represented by the Global Security, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary 20
account to be credited with such decrease, then the Trustee shall cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate Principal Amount of Securities represented by the Global Security to be decreased by the aggregate Principal Amount of the Certificated Security to be issued, shall authenticate and deliver such Certificated Security and shall debit or cause to be debited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Security equal to the Principal Amount of the Certificated Security so issued. (iii) Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Securities. When Certificated Securities are presented to the Registrar with a request: (x) to register the transfer of such Certificated Securities; or (y) to exchange such Certificated Securities for an equal Principal Amount of Certificated Securities of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transaction are met including any information necessary to ensure compliance with the Securities Act; provided, however, that the Certificated Securities surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing. (iv) Restrictions on Transfer of a Certificated Security for a Beneficial Interest in a Global Security. A Certificated Security may not be exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Global Security except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below. Upon receipt by the Trustee of a Certificated Security, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, together with written instructions directing the Trustee to make, or to direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Security to reflect an increase in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities represented by the Global Security, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary account to be credited with such increase, then the Trustee shall cancel such Certificated Security and cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate Principal Amount of Securities represented by the Global Security to be increased by the aggregate Principal Amount of the Certificated Security to be exchanged, and shall credit or cause to be credited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Security equal to the Principal Amount of the Certificated Security so cancelled. If no Global Securities are then outstanding, the Company shall issue and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate a new Global Security in the appropriate Principal Amount. 21
(d) The restrictions imposed by the Legend upon the transferability of any Security shall cease and terminate when such Security has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or, if earlier, upon the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision). Any Security as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or shall have terminated may, upon a surrender of such Security for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.13 (accompanied, in the event that such restrictions on transfer have terminated by reason of a transfer in compliance with Rule 144 or any successor provision, by an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Registrar and addressed to the Company and the Registrar, to the effect that the transfer of such Security has been made in compliance with Rule 144 or such successor provision), be exchanged for a new Security, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the restrictive Legend. The Company shall inform the Trustee of the effective date of any registration statement registering the offer and sale of the Securities under the Securities Act. The Trustee or the Registrar shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the aforementioned Opinion of Counsel or registration statement. As used in Sections 2.13(b) and (d), the term "transfer" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer, hypothecation or other disposition of any Security. (e) The provisions of clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) below shall apply only to Global Securities: (i) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, except as provided in Section 2.13(c)(ii), a Global Security shall not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Security registered in the name of any Person other than the Depositary or one or more nominees thereof, provided that a Global Security may be exchanged for Securities registered in the names of any person designated by the Depositary in the event that (i) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or such Depositary has ceased to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, (ii) the Company decides to discontinue use of the system of book-entry transfer through DTC (or any successor depositary); or (iii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities. Any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part, and any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (iii) above may be exchanged in whole or from time to time in part as directed by the Depositary. Any Security issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be a Global Security; provided that any such Security so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Security. (ii) Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest 22
coupons, shall have an aggregate Principal Amount equal to that of such Global Security or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and shall bear the applicable legends provided for herein. Any Global Security to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Trustee, as Registrar. With regard to any Global Security to be exchanged in part, either such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Security, the Principal Amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Security issuable on such exchange to or upon the order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof. (iii) Subject to the provisions of clause (5) below, the registered Holder may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members (as defined below) and persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities. (iv) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (1) above, the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Certificated Securities in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons. (v) Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary (collectively, the "Agent Members") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Security, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Security. (f) Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), any stock certificate representing Common Stock issued upon conversion of any Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, unless such Common Stock has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or such Common Stock has been 23
issued upon conversion of Securities that have been transferred pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or unless otherwise agreed by the Company in writing with written notice thereof to the transfer agent: THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY NOT BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (I) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST ISSUE DATE OF THE NOTE CONVERTED INTO THIS SECURITY AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS NOTE) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRANSFER AGENT'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS NOTE IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRANSFER AGENT. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE AND THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATES AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY. Any such Common Stock as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the foregoing legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such shares of Common Stock for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like number of shares of Common Stock, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this section. (g) Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), any certificate 24
representing any Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, unless (i) such Certificated Security or Global Security has been issued pursuant to Section 2.13(f) hereto, or (ii) such Security has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or unless otherwise agreed by the Company in writing with written notice thereof to the transfer agent: THIS SECURITY AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY, THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SECURITY) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE AND DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATE AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY. Any such Security as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the foregoing legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such Security for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent, be exchanged for 25
a new certificate or certificates for a like amount of Securities, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this section. SECTION 2.14. CUSIP Numbers. The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP numbers. SECTION 2.15. Additional Interest Under Registration Rights Agreements. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be obligated to pay Additional Interest to Holders, all as and to the extent set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. The terms thereof are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Additional Interest, if required to be paid, is deemed to be interest for purposes of this Indenture. ARTICLE 3 OPTIONAL REDEMPTION SECTION 3.01. Company's Right to Redeem; Notices to Trustee. (a) At any time on or after April 5, 2009, and until April 4, 2011 the Company may redeem the Securities, in whole or in part, for cash at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the Principal Amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, to but excluding the Redemption Date, if the Sale Price of Common Stock is equal to or greater than 130% of the Conversion Price then in effect for at least 20 Trading Days in the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day prior to the date of mailing of the Notice of Redemption. (b) Beginning on April 5, 2011 the Company may, at its option, redeem all or part of the Securities for cash at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the Principal Amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, to but excluding the Redemption Date. (c) If the Company elects to redeem Securities, it shall notify the Trustee in writing of the Redemption Date, the Principal Amount of Securities to be redeemed, the Conversion Price and the Redemption Price payable on the Redemption Date. The Company shall give such notice to the Trustee in accordance with Section 3.03. (d) In accordance with Section 13.04, in connection with any redemption, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, to the redemption have been complied with. 26
SECTION 3.02. Selection of Securities to Be Redeemed. If fewer than all of the outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall, upon 15 days' prior notice from the Company (unless the Trustee consents to a shorter period), select the Securities to be redeemed in Principal Amounts of $1,000 or integral multiples thereof. The Trustee may select the Securities by lot, pro rata or by any other method the trustee considers fair and appropriate or in any manner required by the Depositary. If a portion of a Holder's Securities is selected for partial redemption and the Holder thereafter surrenders a portion of such Securities for conversion before termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Security so selected for redemption, the portion of such Security surrendered for conversion shall be deemed (so far as may be), solely for purposes of determining the aggregate Principal Amount of Securities to be redeemed by the Company, to be the portion selected for redemption. Securities which have been converted during a selection of Securities to be redeemed may be treated by the Trustee as outstanding for the purpose of such selection. Nothing in this Section 3.02 shall affect the right of any Holder to convert any Security pursuant to Sections 11.01 before the termination of the conversion right with respect thereto. SECTION 3.03. Notice of Redemption. (a) At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall provide a notice of redemption (a "Notice of Redemption") to the Trustee and to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at such Holder's address kept by the Registrar. (b) The Notice of Redemption shall identify the Securities to be redeemed and shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the Redemption Price; (iii) the Applicable Conversion Rate as of the Trading Day prior to the date of the mailing of the Notice of Redemption; (iv) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent; (v) that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price; (vi) that the Securities called for redemption may be converted at any time before the close of business on the second Business Day prior to the Redemption Date; (vii) that Holders who wish to convert Securities must comply with the procedures in Section 11.02 and paragraph 8 of the Securities; (viii) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of the Redemption Price for the Securities called for redemption, interest on the 27
Securities will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date and the only remaining right of the Holder will be to receive payment of the Redemption Price upon presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent of the Securities; (ix) if fewer than all the outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the certificate number and Principal Amounts of the particular Securities to be redeemed; and (x) the CUSIP number or numbers for the Securities called for redemption. (c) At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the Notice of Redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense. SECTION 3.04. Effect of Notice of Redemption. Once a Notice of Redemption is given by the Company, Securities called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price stated in such notice, except for Securities that are converted in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.02. Upon their presentation and surrender to the Paying Agent, Securities called for redemption shall be paid at the Redemption Price. Failure to give notice or any defect in the notice to any Holder shall not affect the validity of the notice to any other Holder. SECTION 3.05. Deposit of Redemption Price. Prior to 11:30 a.m. (New York City time) on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or an Affiliate of the Company is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) an amount of money sufficient to pay the aggregate Redemption Price of all the Securities to be redeemed on the Redemption Date other than the Securities or portions thereof called for redemption which on or prior thereto have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation or have been converted. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall, as promptly as practicable, return to the Company any money not required to pay the aggregate Redemption Price because of conversion of the Securities in accordance with the provisions of Sections 11.02. If such money is then held by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company in trust and is not required for such purpose, it shall be discharged from such trust. SECTION 3.06. No Redemption Upon Acceleration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not redeem the Securities if the principal amount of Securities has been accelerated, and such acceleration has not been rescinded, on or prior to such Redemption Date (except in the case of an acceleration resulting from a default by the Company in the payment of the Redemption Price with respect to such Securities). SECTION 3.07. Partial Redemption Qualifications. In the event of any redemption of the Securities in part, the Company will not be required to: (a) issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities for redemption and ending at the close of business on the earliest date on which the relevant Notice of Redemption is deemed to have been given to all Holders of Securities to be so redeemed, or 28
(b) register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption, in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part. ARTICLE 4 REPURCHASE AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER SECTION 4.01. Purchase of Securities at Option of the Holder On Specified Dates. (a) Securities or portions thereof shall be purchased by the Company at the option of the holder for cash on April 1, 2011, April 1, 2016 and April 1, 2021 (each, a "Repurchase Date"), at a purchase price (the "Repurchase Price") equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be repurchased. The Company shall pay any accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional Interest, if any, thereon to but excluding such Repurchase Date to the holders of such Securities at the close of business on the Regular Record Date immediately preceding such Repurchase Date. (b) Holders may submit their Securities for purchase to the Paying Agent at any time from the opening of business on the date that is 20 Business Days prior to such Repurchase Date until the close of business on the Business Day before such Purchase Date. (c) Unless the Company has issued a Notice of Redemption, not later than 20 Business Days prior to any Repurchase Date, the Company shall mail a notice (the "Company Notice") by first class mail to the Trustee, to the Paying Agent and to each Holder (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). The Company Notice shall include a form of repurchase notice to be completed by a holder and shall state: (i) the last date on which a Securityholder may exercise its repurchase right pursuant to this Section 4.01; (ii) the Repurchase Date, the Repurchase Price and the Applicable Conversion Rate as of the Trading Day immediately prior to the mailing of the Company Notice; (iii) the name and address of the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent; (iv) that Securities as to which a Repurchase Notice has been given may be converted only in accordance with Article 11 hereof and the terms of the Securities if the applicable Repurchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture; (v) that Securities must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment; 29
(vi) that the Repurchase Price for any Security as to which a Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn will be paid promptly following the later of the Repurchase Date and the time of surrender of such Security as described in (v); (vii) the procedures the holder must follow to exercise its repurchase rights under this Section 4.01 and a brief description of those rights; (viii) briefly, the conversion rights with respect to the Securities; (ix) the procedures for withdrawing a Repurchase Notice; and (x) the CUSIP number of the Securities. (d) At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the Company Notice in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; provided, however, that, in all cases, the text of such Company Notice shall be prepared by the Company. (e) The Company will promptly publish a notice containing the information included in the Company Notice in a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or publish such information on the Company's website or through such other public medium as the Company may use at that time. (f) Purchases of Securities hereunder shall be made, at the option of the Holder thereof, upon: (i) delivery to the Paying Agent by the Holder of a written notice of repurchase substantially in the form set forth on the reverse of the Security as Exhibit D thereto (a "Repurchase Notice") during the period beginning at any time from the opening of business on the date that is 20 Business Days prior to the relevant Repurchase Date until the close of business on the second Business Day prior to the Repurchase Date stating: (A) if certificated Securities have been issued, the certificate numbers of the Securities that the Holder will deliver to be purchased, (B) the portion of the principal amount of the Securities to be purchased, which portion must be in principal amounts of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000, and (C) that such Securities shall be purchased by the Company as of the Repurchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Securities and in this Indenture; provided, however, that if the Securities are not in certificated form, the Repurchase Notice must comply with appropriate Depositary procedures; and 30
(ii) book-entry transfer or delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent at any time after delivery of the Repurchase Notice (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent, such delivery being a condition to receipt by the holder of the Repurchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Repurchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 4.01 only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof in the related Repurchase Notice. No Repurchase Notice with respect to any Securities may be tendered by a Holder thereof if such Holder has also tendered a Change in Control Repurchase Notice and not validly withdrawn such Change in Control Repurchase Notice in accordance with this Section 4.01. The Company shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 4.01, a portion of a Security, if the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Security also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Security. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Repurchase Notice contemplated by this Section 4.01 shall have the right to withdraw, in whole or in part, such Repurchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Repurchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 4.01 ("Notice of Withdrawal"). (g) The Notice of Withdrawal must state: (xi) the Principal Amount of Securities being withdrawn, which shall be $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000; (xii) if certificated, the certificate numbers of the Securities being withdrawn, and if certificated notes have not been issued, the notice must comply with appropriate Depositary procedures; and (xiii) the principal amount, if any, of the Securities that remain subject to the purchase notice, if any. In connection with any purchase offer pursuant to these provisions, the Company will: (i) comply with the provisions of Rule 13e-4, Rule 14e-1 and any other tender offer rules under the Exchange Act which may then be applicable; (ii) file Schedule TO or any other required schedule under the Exchange Act; and (iii) otherwise comply with the federal and state securities laws. The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Repurchase Notice or written Notice of Withdrawal thereof. 31
The Paying Agent has no duty of responsibility to verify the accuracy or compliance with such Notice of Withdrawal. (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Securities may be repurchased by the Company at the option of the Holders if the Principal Amount of the Securities has been accelerated, and such acceleration has not been rescinded, on or prior to the Repurchase Date (except in the case of an acceleration resulting from a default by the Company in the payment of the Repurchase Price with respect to such Securities). (e) Payment of the Repurchase Price for a Security for which a Repurchase Notice has been delivered and not validly withdrawn is conditioned upon the delivery of the Security, together with necessary endorsements, to the Paying Agent at any time after delivery of the Repurchase Notice. Payment of the Repurchase Price for the Security will be made promptly following the later of the Repurchase Date or the time of delivery of the Security. No Securities may be purchased at the option of Holders if there has occurred and is continuing an Event of Default, other than an Event of Default that is cured by the payment of the Repurchase Price of all such Securities. SECTION 4.02. Purchase of Securities at Option of the Holder upon Change in Control. (a) If prior to April 1, 2011, there shall have occurred a Change in Control, each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to require the Company to purchase for cash all or any portion of such Holder's Securities which have not been repurchased or called for redemption pursuant to Section 3.01, that is equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be repurchased (the "Change in Control Purchase Price") plus any accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional Interest, if any, thereon to, but excluding the date that is 20 Business Days after the date the Company sends to Holders a Change in Control Purchase Notice (the "Change in Control Purchase Date"), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 4.01(c). (A) "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as either of the following events shall occur: (1) any sale, lease or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company or its Subsidiaries to any Person (other than a Subsidiary); provided, however, that a transaction where the Holders of all classes of the Company's Common Equity immediately prior to such transaction own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all classes of the Common Equity of the continuing or surviving Person immediately after such transaction shall not be a Change in Control; (2) consummation of any share exchange, consolidation or merger of the Company pursuant to which the Common Stock will be 32
converted into cash, securities or other property or any sale, lease or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the Company's consolidated assets (considered together with its Subsidiaries) to any Person (other than one of the Company's Subsidiaries); provided, however, that a transaction where the Holders of all classes of the Company's Common Equity immediately prior to such transaction own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of all classes of Common Equity of the continuing or surviving corporation or transferee immediately after such event shall not be a Change in Control; (3) a "person" or "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act (other than the Company, the Company's Subsidiaries or the Company's employee benefit plans) files a Schedule 13D or a Schedule TO, disclosing that it has become the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of our Common Equity representing more than 50% of the voting power of Common Equity; or (4) the Company's stockholders approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; provided, however, that a liquidation or dissolution of the Company that is part of a transaction described in clause (1) above that does not constitute a Change in Control under the proviso contained in that clause shall not constitute a Change in Control. For purposes of defining a Change in Control: (x) whether a person is a "beneficial owner" will be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; and (y) a "person" includes any syndicate or group that would be deemed to be a person under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it will not constitute a Change in Control if 100% of the consideration for the Common Stock (excluding cash payments for fractional shares and cash payments made in respect of dissenter's appraisal rights, if any) in the transaction or transactions constituting the Change in Control consists of another Person's common stock or American Depositary Shares representing shares of another Person's common stock traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or quoted on The Nasdaq National Market (at such time as the Nasdaq National Market is not a U.S. National Securities Exchange), or which will be so traded or quoted when exchanged in connection with the Change in Control, and as a result of such transaction or transactions the Securities become convertible solely into such common stock or American Depositary Shares. 33
(b) Within 20 days after the Company knows or reasonably should know of the occurrence of the Change in Control transaction, the Company shall mail a written notice of Change in Control ("Change in Control Notice") by first-class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder at their address shown in the register of the Registrar (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). The notice shall include a form of Change in Control Purchase Notice to be completed by the Securityholder and shall state: (i) briefly, the events causing a Change in Control and the effective date or anticipated effective date of such Change in Control; (ii) the date by which the Change in Control Purchase Notice pursuant to this Section 4.02 must be given; (iii) the Change in Control Purchase Date; (iv) the Change in Control Purchase Price and, to the extent known at the time of such notice, the amount of interest that will be accrued and payable with respect to the Securities as of the Change in Control Purchase Date; (v) whether such Change in Control will also constitute a Public Acquirer Change in Control and the conversion rights available to the Holders in connection with such Public Acquirer Change in Control, including the period of conversion; (vi) the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent; (vii) the Conversion Rate and any adjustments thereto; (viii) that Securities as to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given may be converted pursuant to Article 11 hereof only if the Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture; (ix) that Securities must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price; (x) that the Change in Control Purchase Price for any Security as to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been duly given and not withdrawn, together with any accrued interest payable with respect thereto, will be paid on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of surrender of such Security; (xi) briefly, the procedures the Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 4.01; (xii) briefly, the conversion rights of the Securities; 34
(xiii) the procedures for withdrawing a Change in Control Purchase Notice; (xiv) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest due, if any, interest on Securities surrendered for purchase will cease to accrue on and after the Change in Control Purchase Date; and (xv) the CUSIP number of the Securities. (c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in Section 4.02(a) upon (i) delivery to the Paying Agent of a written notice of repurchase substantially in the form set forth on the reverse of the Security as Exhibit E thereto (a "Change in Control Purchase Notice") during the period beginning at any time from the opening of business on the date of the Change in Control Notice and ending 20 days thereafter: (A) if certificated Securities have been issued, the certificate number of the Notes that the Holder will deliver to be purchased; (B) the portion of the Principal Amount of the Securities to be purchased, which portion must be in Principal Amounts of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000; and (C) that such Securities shall be purchased by the Company as of the Change in Control Purchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Securities and in this Indenture; provided, however, that if the Securities are not in certificated form, the Change in Control Purchase Notice must comply with appropriate Depositary procedures; and (ii) book-entry transfer or delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent at any time after delivery of the Change in Control Purchase Notice (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent, such delivery being a condition to receipt by the holder of the Change in Control Purchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Change in Control Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 4.02(c) only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof in the related Change in Control Purchase Notice. (d) The delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Change in Control Purchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Change in Control Purchase Price therefor; provided, however, that such Change in Control Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 4.02 only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Change in Control Purchase Notice. 35
(e) The Company shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 4.02, a portion of a Security if the Principal Amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Security also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Security. (f) Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 4.02 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder (together with accrued and unpaid interest) on or prior to the third Business Day following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of delivery of the Security to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 4.02. (g) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Change in Control Purchase Notice contemplated by Section 4.02(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the Change in Control Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 4.03. (h) The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Change in Control Purchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof. (i) The Company shall not be required to comply with this Section 4.02 if a third party mails a written notice of Change in Control in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with this Section 4.02 and repurchases all Securities for which a Change in Control Purchase Notice shall be delivered and not withdrawn. (j) There shall be no purchase of any Securities pursuant to this Section 4.02 if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the Holders of such Securities, of the required Change in Control Purchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Securities (x) with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Indenture, or (y) held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price) in which case, upon such return, the Change in Control Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn. SECTION 4.03. Effect of Change in Control Purchase Notice. (a) Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Change in Control Purchase Notice specified in Section 4.02(c), the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Change in Control Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Change in Control Purchase Price and any accrued and unpaid interest, with respect to such Security. Such Change in Control Purchase Price and interest shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, on or prior to the third Business Day following the the Change in Control Purchase Date, with respect to such Security (provided the conditions in Section 4.02 have been satisfied). Securities in respect of which a Change in Control Purchase 36
Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article 11 hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Change in Control Purchase Notice unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs. A Change in Control Purchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the Change in Control Purchase Date specifying: (i) the principal amount of the Securities being withdrawn, which shall be $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000; (ii) if certificated, the certificate number of the Securities being withdrawn, and if certificated Securities have not been issued, the notice must comply with appropriate Depositary procedures, and (iii) the principal amount, if any, of Securities that remain subject to the Change in Control Purchase Notice, if any. A written Notice of Withdrawal of a Change in Control Purchase Notice may be in the form set forth in the preceding paragraph. The Paying Agent has no duty of responsibility to verify the accuracy or compliance with such Notice of Withdrawal. SECTION 4.04. Deposit of Repurchase or Change in Control Purchase Price. If the Paying Agent holds funds sufficient to pay the Repurchase Price or the Change of Control Purchase Price of a Security for which a Repurchase Notice or a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been delivered on the Business Day following the Repurchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture, then, immediately after the Repurchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be, the Security will cease to be outstanding and interest will cease to accrue, whether or not the Security is delivered to the Paying Agent. Thereafter, all other rights of such Holders shall terminate, other than the right to receive the Repurchase Price or Change of Control Purchase Price upon delivery of the Security. This will be the case whether book-entry transfer of the notes is made or whether the Securities are delivered to the Paying Agent. SECTION 4.05. Securities Purchased in Part. Any Security which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as 37
requested by such Holder in aggregate Principal Amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the Principal Amount of the Security so surrendered which is not purchased. SECTION 4.06. Repayment to the Company. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or Securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property laws, together with interest thereon (subject to the provisions of Section 8.01(f)), held by them for the payment of a Repurchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price; provided, however, that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 4.03 exceeds the aggregate Repurchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to, the Securities or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Repurchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, whether as a result of withdrawal or otherwise, then promptly after the Business Day following the Repurchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Date, the Trustee shall return any such excess to the Company together with interest thereon (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01(f)). After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or Securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person. ARTICLE 5 COVENANTS SECTION 5.01. Payment of Securities. The Company shall promptly make all payments of principal of, premium, if any, and interest in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner pursuant to this Indenture. All payments in respect of the Securities (including the payment of the principal of, premium, if any and interest) shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holder of the Securities. Any amounts to be given to the Trustee or Paying Agent, shall be deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent by 10:00 a.m., New York City time, by the Company. Principal Amount, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price, and interest, shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if on such date (or, in the case of a Purchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price, on or prior to the third Business Day following the applicable Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date) the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay all such amounts then due. All references in this indenture to "interest" shall include Additional Interest, if any. The Company shall pay all Additional Interest, if any, in the same manner on the dates set forth in the Securities and in the amounts set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. The Company shall, to the extent permitted by law, pay interest on overdue amounts at the rate per annum set forth in paragraph 1 of the Securities, compounded 38
semiannually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. SECTION 5.02. SEC and Other Reports. The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 15 days after it files such annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports with the SEC, copies of its annual report and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. In the event the Company is at any time no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, it shall continue to provide the Trustee with reports containing substantially the same information as would have been required to be filed with the SEC had the Company continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. In such event, such reports shall be provided at the times the Company would have been required to provide reports had it continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. The Company also shall comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of the same shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates). SECTION 5.03. Compliance Certificate. The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning with the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006) an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge. SECTION 5.04. Further Instruments and Acts. Upon request of the Trustee, the Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture. SECTION 5.05. Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Company will maintain an office or agency of the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange for other Securities, purchase or conversion for Common Stock and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Trustee's office 39
specified in Section 12.02 shall initially be such office or agency for all of the aforesaid purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency (other than a change in the location of the office of the Trustee). If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 12.02. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations. SECTION 5.06. Tax Payments The Company shall pay, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments and governmental levies, except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings. ARTICLE 6 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION SECTION 6.01. When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets. The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any other person or sell, lease, or otherwise transfer (in one transactions or series of transactions) all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any person, unless: (a) Either (1) the Company shall be the continuing corporation or (2) the person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the person which acquires by sale, lease or transfer the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation organized and validly existing under the laws of (x) the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, (y) any member country of the European Union, or (z) any other country if the organization and existence of the person formed by such consolidation in such country not impair the rights of Holders; (b) such Person shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture; and (c) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing. For purposes of the foregoing, the transfer (by lease, assignment, sale or otherwise) of the properties and assets of one or more Subsidiaries of the Company (other than to the Company or another Subsidiary of the Company), which, if such assets were owned by the Company, would constitute all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company, 40
shall be deemed to be the transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company. SECTION 6.02. Successor Corporation Substituted. Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor person has been named as the Company herein; provided, however, that the predecessor Company in the case of a sale, conveyance or other disposition (other than a lease) shall be released from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities. ARTICLE 7 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES SECTION 7.01. Events of Default. An "Event of Default" occurs, with respect to the Securities, if: (a) the Company defaults in the payment of the Principal Amount, a Redemption Price, a Repurchase Price or a Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to any Security when such becomes due and payable; (b) the payment of any interest due upon any Security when the same becomes due and payable and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; (c) the Company fails to deliver the Settlement Amount due in accordance with the terms of such Security and this Indenture upon conversion of the Securities, together with cash in respect of any fractional shares, upon conversion of any Securities and such default continues for a period of five days or more; (d) the Company fails to comply with any of its agreements, covenants or warranties in the Securities or this Indenture (other than those referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above) and such failure continues for 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default (as defined below); (e) the Company shall fail to (i) make any payment by the end of any applicable grace period of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $75,000,000 and continuance of such failure, or (ii) the acceleration of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $75,000,000 because of a default with respect to such Indebtedness without such Indebtedness having been discharged or such acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, in the case of subclause (i) of this clause (e), for a period of 30 days after written notice to us by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities then outstanding; provided, however, that if any such failure or acceleration referred to in (i) or (ii) above shall cease or be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof shall be deemed not to have occurred; or 41
(f) a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall have been entered adjudging the Company or any Significant Subsidiary as bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization of the company under any Bankruptcy Law, and such decree or order shall have continued undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; or a decree or order of a court having jurisdiction in the premises for the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company or of its property, or for the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs, shall have been entered, and such decree or order shall have remained in force undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; and (g) the Company or any Significant Subsidiary shall institute proceedings to be adjudicated a voluntary bankrupt, or shall consent to the filing of a bankruptcy proceeding against it, or shall file a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization under any Bankruptcy Law, or shall consent to the filing of any such petition, or shall consent to the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency of it or of its property or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due. A Default under clause (d) above is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities notify the Company and the Trustee, of the Default and the Company does not cure such Default within 60 days after receipt of such notice. Any such notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "Notice of Default." SECTION 7.02. Acceleration. If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 7.01(f) or (g)) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities, by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the Principal Amount of the Securities, plus all accrued and unpaid interest through, but excluding, the date of such declaration, to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such Principal (or portion thereof), plus all accrued and unpaid interest through, but excluding, the date of such declaration, shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 7.01(f) or (g) occurs and is continuing, the Principal (or portion thereof), plus all accrued and unpaid interest through, but excluding, the date of such declaration, on all the Securities shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Securityholders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder) may rescind such acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree; and all existing Events of Default with respect to the Securities, have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the Principal (or portion thereof) and accrued and unpaid interest of Securities that has become due solely as a result of such acceleration and if all amounts due to the Trustee under Section 8.07 have been paid. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto. 42
SECTION 7.03. Other Remedies. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the whole amount then due and payable on the Securities for Principal and interest, with interest upon the overdue Principal and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, upon overdue installments of interest from the date such interest was due, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including amounts due the Trustee under Section 8.07 or (b) enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities or this Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if the Trustee does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of the Securities in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in, the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative. SECTION 7.04. Waiver of Past Defaults. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Holder), may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities waive an existing Default and its consequences except (1) an Event of Default described in Section 7.01(a) or (2) a Default in respect of a provision that under Section 10.02 cannot be amended without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Security. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right. SECTION 7.05. Control by Majority. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Securities. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or that the Trustee determines in good faith is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holder or would involve the Trustee in personal liability. SECTION 7.06. Limitation on Suits. A Holder of any Security may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Security unless: (a) the Holder gives to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default with respect to the Securities is continuing; (b) the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy; 43
(c) such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against any loss, liability or expense satisfactory to the Trustee; (d) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the notice, the request and the offer of security or indemnity; and (e) the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the outstanding Securities do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with such request during such 60-day period. A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Holder. SECTION 7.07. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right, which is absolute and unconditional, of any Holder of any Security to receive payment of the Principal of and interest on such Security on the Maturity Date (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities or any Redemption Date, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected adversely without the consent of each such Holder. SECTION 7.08. Collection Suit by Trustee. If an Event of Default described in Section 7.01(a) with respect to Securities occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount owing with respect to such Securities and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07. SECTION 7.09. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the Principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue Principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of Principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and any other amount due the Trustee under Section 8.07) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and 44
(b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; (c) and any Custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 8.07. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder of any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. SECTION 7.10. Priorities. If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 7, it shall pay out the money in the following order and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of Principal or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid: FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 8.07; SECOND: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid for the Principal and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for Principal and interest; and THIRD: the balance, if any, to the Company. The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 7.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Company shall mail to each Holder and the Trustee a notice that states the record date, the payment date and amount to be paid. SECTION 7.11. Undertaking for Costs. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit (other than the Trustee) of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit (other than the Trustee), having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 7.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 7.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. This Section 7.11 shall be in lieu of Section 45
315(e) of the TIA and such Section 315(e) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA. SECTION 7.12. Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws. The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the Principal Amount, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest in respect of Securities, or any interest on such amounts, as contemplated herein, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted. ARTICLE 8 TRUSTEE SECTION 8.01. Duties of Trustee. (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs. (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default: (i) the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and (ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions, which pursuant to this Indenture are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture. (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that: (i) this paragraph (c) does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 8.01; 46
(ii) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (iii) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 8.05. (d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of this Section 8.01. (e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power or extend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. (f) Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall not be liable for any interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may otherwise agree with the Company. SECTION 8.02. Rights of Trustee. (a) The Trustee may rely on any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document. (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. (c) The Trustee may act through agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care. (d) Subject to the provisions of Section 8.01(c), the Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers. SECTION 8.03. Individual Rights of Trustee etc. The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar or any other agent of the Company may do the same with like rights. However the Trustee must comply with Sections 8.10 and 8.11. SECTION 8.04. Trustee's Disclaimer. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities and, shall not be responsible for any statement in the registration statement for the Securities under the Securities Act, or in the Indenture or the Securities (other than its certificate of authentication) or for the determination as to which beneficial owners are entitled to receive any notices hereunder. 47
SECTION 8.05. Notice of Defaults. If a Default with respect to the Securities occurs and is continuing and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Holder notice of such Default in the manner set forth in TIA Section 315(b) within 90 days after it occurs. Except in the case of a Default described in Section 7.01(a) with respect to any Security, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Trust Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders. SECTION 8.06. Reports by Trustee to Holders. Within 60 days after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of such May 15 that complies with TIA Section 313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b) and (c). A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be filed with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Securities may be listed. The Company agrees to notify the Trustee whenever the Securities become listed on any stock exchange. SECTION 8.07. Compensation and Indemnity. The Company agrees: (a) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (b) to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses, advances and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and (c) to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 8.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay the Principal of or interest on any Security. The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this Section 8.07 shall survive the discharge of this Indenture. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in Section 7.01(3) or (4), the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law. SECTION 8.08. Replacement of Trustee. The Trustee may resign by so notifying the Company; provided, however, no such resignation shall be effective until a successor Trustee has accepted its appointment pursuant to this Section 8.08. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities may remove the Trustee 48
by so notifying the Trustee and may appoint a successor Trustee. The Company shall remove the Trustee if: (a) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 8.10; (b) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent; (c) a receiver or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or (d) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting. If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint, by resolution of its Board of Directors, a successor Trustee. Every successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 8.07. If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee. If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 8.10, any Holder of a Security may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of such Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee. SECTION 8.09. Successor Trustee by Merger. If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee. SECTION 8.10. Eligibility; Disqualification. The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Section 310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 310(b), including the optional provision permitted by the second sentence of TIA Section 310(b)(9). In determining whether the Trustee has conflicting interests as defined in TIA Section 310(b)(1), the provisions contained in the proviso to TIA Section 310(b)(1) shall be deemed incorporated herein. SECTION 8.11. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company. The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA 49
Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein. ARTICLE 9 DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE SECTION 9.01. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture. This Indenture shall upon Company Order cease to be of further effect (except as hereinafter provided in this Section 9.01), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when (a) either (i) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (A) Securities that have been destroyed, lost or stolen and that have been replaced or paid or (B) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited with the Trustee in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or otherwise discharged from such trust) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or (ii) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation (A) have become due and payable, whether at Maturity or upon any Redemption Date, Conversion Date, Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date or upon conversion or otherwise; or (B) and the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as cash trust funds or, if expressly permitted by the terms of the Securities, Common Stock in trust an amount sufficient for the purpose of paying and discharging the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for Principal Amount, the Redemption Price, Purchase Price, or Change in Control Purchase Price and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable on or prior to the date of such deposit) or to the Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be; (b) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and (c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with. Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 8.07, and, if money shall have been deposited with 50
the Trustee pursuant to clause (a) of this Section, the provisions of Sections 2.04, 2.07, 2.08, 8.01, 8.02 and 8.05 shall survive. SECTION 9.02. Application Of Trust Funds; Indemnification. Subject to the provisions of Section 9.03, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 9.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (other than the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the persons entitled thereto, of the amount for whose payment such money has been deposited with or received by the Trustee. SECTION 9.03 Repayment to the Company. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company on Company Request any money held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such return, may at the expense and direction of the Company cause to be published once in an Authorized Newspaper or mail to each such Holder notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication or mailing, any unclaimed money then remaining will be returned to the Company. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person. ARTICLE 10 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES SECTION 10.01. Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Holders. Without the consent of any Holders, the Company and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes: (a) cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency; (b) provide for the assumption by a successor corporation of the Company's obligations under this Indenture; (c) provide for uncertificated Securities in addition to certificated Securities (so long as any uncertificated Securities are in registered form for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code); (d) make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of the Securities; (e) make any change to comply with the TIA, or to comply with any requirement of the SEC in connection with the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA; or 51
(f) add to the Company's covenants or obligations under this Indenture or surrender any right, power or option conferred by the Indenture on the Company. No amendment to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency in this Indenture will be deemed to adversely affect the interests of the Holders. SECTION 10.02. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders. With the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Securities, the Company and the Trustee may amend this Indenture or the Securities or may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders; provided, however, that no such amendment or supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of each Holder of Outstanding Securities: (a) reduce the Principal Amount, reduce the rate or change the time of payment of interest on any Security, Redemption Price, Purchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to any Security, or extend the Maturity Date of any Security or mane any Security payable in money or securities other than stated in the Securities; (b) make any reduction in the principal amount of Securities whose Holders must consent to an amendment or any waiver under this Indenture or modify this Indenture provisions relating to such amendments or waivers; (c) make any change that adversely affects the right to convert any Security or the right to require the Company to purchase a Security; (d) impair the right to institute suit for enforcement of any payment with respect to, or conversion of, the Securities; or (e) make any amounts payable with respect to the Securities payable in currency other than that stated in the Securities. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 10.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment or supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After an amendment or supplemental Indenture under this Section 10.02 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing the amendment. SECTION 10.03. Compliance with Trust Indenture Act. Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA as then in effect. SECTION 10.04. Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions. Until an amendment or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it or any other action by a Holder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of that Security that evidences the same obligation as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent, waiver or action is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder 52
or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent, waiver or action as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the Company or an agent of the Company certifies to the Trustee that the consent of the requisite aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities has been obtained. After an amendment, waiver or action becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder. The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to consent to any amendment or waiver with respect to the Securities. If a record date is fixed, then notwithstanding the first two sentences of the immediately preceding paragraph, those persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those persons, shall be entitled to revoke any consent previously given, whether or not such persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 90 days after such record date. SECTION 10.05. Notation on or Exchange of Securities. Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities. SECTION 10.06. Trustee to Sign Supplemental, Indentures. The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 10 if the amendment does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign it. In signing such amendment the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 8.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. SECTION 10.07. Effect of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby. ARTICLE 11 CONVERSION SECTION 11.01. Conversion Privilege. (a) Subject to the conditions described in this Section 11.01, and upon compliance with the provisions of this Article 11, a Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert all or any portion (if the portion to be converted is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) of such Security at any time if one or more of the following conditions for conversion are satisfied: 53
(i) if the Sale Price for at least 20 Trading Days in a period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the last Trading Day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter of the Company exceeds 120% of the Conversion Price on the last day of such preceding fiscal quarter (the "Conversion Trigger Price") then the Holders may surrender their Securities for conversion in accordance with this Article 11 during and only during the fiscal quarter immediately following the fiscal quarter in which the Sale Price so exceeded the Conversion Trigger Price; (ii) the Company calls the Securities for redemption pursuant to and in accordance with Article 3, a Holder may surrender Securities for conversion from the date of the Notice of Redemption until the close of business on the second Business Day prior to the Redemption Date; or (iii) In the event that the Company: (1) elects to distribute to all holders of Common Stock rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, Common Stock at less than the average Sale Price for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the record date for such distribution; or (2) elects to distribute to all holders of Common Stock cash, debt securities (or other evidence of Indebtedness) or other assets (excluding dividends or distributions described in Sections 11.07(a) and (b)), which distribution has a per share value as determined by the Company's Board of Directors exceeding 15% of the average Sale Prices for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the record date for such distribution, or (3) is a party to a Change in Control, or, upon an event that would have been such a Change in Control but for the existence of one of the exceptions set forth in the last paragraph of Section 4.02(a) of the Indenture; a Holder may surrender Securities for conversion at any time from and after the date which is 15 days prior to the anticipated effective time of the Change of Control transaction until 15 days after the actual effective date of such Change of Control transaction (or, if such transaction also constitutes a Change in Control, until the Change in Control Purchase Date). After the effective time of the transaction, settlement of the Conversion Value will be based on the kind and amount of cash, securities or other assets of the Company or another Person that a holder of Common Stock received in such transaction (or, if such transaction provides for the holders of Common Stock the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock); provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Conversion Value will be paid in cash and at the Company's election, cash, Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. The Company will notify Holders and the Trustee as promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces such transaction (but in no event less than 20 days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction). (b) If the Company makes a distribution described in Section 11.01(a)(iii)(1) or Section 11.01(a)(iii)(2) the Company must notify Holders at least 20 days prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution ("Distribution Notice"). Once the Company has given a Distribution Notice, Holders may surrender their Securities for conversion at any time until (x) 54
the earlier of the close of business (x) on the Business Day prior to the Ex-Dividend Date or (y) the Company's announcement that such distribution will not take place, even if the Securities are not convertible at that time. No adjustment to Conversion Rate or the ability of Holders to convert will be made if Holders are entitled to participate in the distribution without conversion. (c) A Security for which a Holder has delivered a Repurchase Notice or a Change in Control Purchase Notice requiring the Company to purchase the Security may be converted only if such Repurchase Notice or Change in Control Purchase Notice is withdrawn in accordance with Section 4.01. The Company may not become party to any such transaction unless its terms are consistent with the foregoing. (d) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 11.01, Securities will not become convertible by reason of a merger, consolidation or other transaction effected with one of the Company's Subsidiaries for the purpose of changing the Company's state of incorporation to any other state within the United States or District of Columbia. (e) Holders may surrender their Securities for conversion at any time on or after February 1, 2026 until the close of business on the day immediately preceding the Maturity Date. (f) At any time when conversion of Securities is allowed in accordance with this Indenture, if a Holder surrenders its Securities for conversion, such holder will receive, in respect of each $1,000 of Principal Amount into the Conversion Value which shall be paid as follows: (i) Cash in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) $1,000 and (B) the Conversion Value (the "Required Cash Amount"); and (ii) If the Conversion Value is greater than $1,000, at the option of the Company, a number of shares of Common Stock, equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the 20 consecutive Trading Days in the Conversion Reference Period (the "Net Share Amount"), subject to the right of the Company to deliver cash in lieu of all or a portion of such Net Share Amount. (f) The Initial Conversion Rate is subject to adjustment in certain events described in Section 11.07. (g) A Holder may convert a portion of the Principal Amount of a Security if the portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to conversion of all of a Security also apply to conversion of a portion of a Security. (h) On any day prior to the date that is three Business Days following the receipt of a Holder's Notice of Conversion (the "Cash Settlement Notice Period"), the Company may specify an amount of the Net Share Amount that will be settled in cash (which must be expressed either as 100% of the Net Share Amount or as a fixed dollar amount) ("Cash Settlement Amount") and will notify the Holder of such Cash Settlement Amount through written notice to the Trustee ("Cash Settlement Notice"). If the Company timely elects to pay cash for any portion of the Net Share Amount, a Holder may retract his or her Notice of Conversion at any time during the two Business Day period immediately following the Cash Settlement Notice Period (the "Conversion Retraction Period"). If the Company does not make such an election, no retraction can be made 55
and the Notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable. If the Company does not specify a Cash Settlement Amount for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company must settle 100% of the Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period with shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that the Company will pay cash in lieu of fractional shares as described below. The Company may, at its option, revoke any Cash Settlement Notice by notifying the Trustee, provided that the Company revoke such notice prior to the start of the applicable Conversion Reference Period. At any time, the Company may irrevocably elect to deliver shares of Common Stock to satisfy all future Net Share Amount payments upon all subsequent conversions of Securities, terminating its right to deliver cash in payment of future Net Share Amounts. (i) The cash and any shares of Common Stock due upon conversion of the notes ("Settlement Amount") will be delivered through the Conversion Agent as promptly as practicable following the end of the Conversion Reference Period applicable to the Securities being converted. (j) The ability to surrender Securities for conversion will expire at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date. In the event that the Ex-Dividend Time (or in the case of a subdivision, combination or reclassification, the effective date with respect thereto) with respect to a dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification to which Section 11.07 applies occurs during the period applicable for calculating Average Closing Price pursuant to the definition in the preceding sentence, the Average Closing Price shall be calculated for such period in a manner determined by the Board of Directors to reflect the impact of such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification on the Closing Price of the Common Stock during such period. (k) The Company will determine at the beginning of each fiscal quarter commencing at any time after April 12, 2006, whether the Securities are convertible as a result of the price of the Common Stock satisfying the conditions in Section 11.01(a)(i) and notify the Conversion Agent and the Trustee. (l) All calculations and determinations required by this Article 11 shall be made by the Company pursuant to an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee. SECTION 11.02. Conversion Procedure. (a) To convert a Security that is represented by a Global Security, a Holder must convert by book-entry transfer to the Conversion Agent through the facilities of the DTC. The Trustee shall, within one Business Day upon receipt of a Holder's conversion by book-entry transfer, provide notice to the Company, as set forth in Section 11.02(b). (b) To convert a Security that is represented by a Certificated Security, a Holder must (1) complete and manually sign the conversion notice a form of which is on Exhibit C to this Indenture, the Form of Reverse Side of Security, (or complete and manually sign a facsimile of such notice) and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (2) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent, (3) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by 56
the Conversion Agent, the Company or the Trustee and (4) pay any transfer or similar tax, if required. (c) The person in whose name the certificate representing any shares is registered shall be treated as a stockholder of record on and after the date a Security is surrendered and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a Note are delivered (the "Settlement Date"); provided, however, that no surrender of a Security on any date when the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive the Net Share Amount upon such conversion as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock on such date, but such surrender shall be effective to constitute the person or persons entitled to receive such shares of Common Stock as the record holder or holders thereof for all purposes at the close of business on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open; such conversion shall be at the Conversion Rate in effect on the date that such Security shall have been surrendered for conversion, as if the stock transfer books of the Company had not been closed. Upon conversion of a Security, such person shall no longer be a Holder of such Security. (d) The ability to surrender Securities for conversion will expire at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date. (e) Holders of Securities at the close of business on a Regular Record Date will receive payment of the interest payable on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion of such Securities at any time after the close of business on the applicable Regular Record Date. Securities surrendered for conversion by a Holder after the close of business on any Regular Record Date but prior to the next Interest Payment Date must be accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the interest payment that is due on these Securities on that Interest Payment Date; provided, however, that no such payment need be made (1) if the Company has specified a Redemption Date that is after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the next Interest Payment Date, (2) if the Company has specified a Purchase Date following a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the next Interest Payment Date, or (3) only to the extent of overdue interest, of any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to such Securities. The Company will not be required to convert any Securities that are surrendered for conversion without payment of interest as required by this Article 11. (f) No payment or adjustment will be made for dividends on, or other distributions with respect to, any Common Stock except as provided in this Article 11. Holders of Common Stock issued upon conversion will not be entitles to receive any dividends payable to Holders of the Common Stock as of any Regular Record Date before the close of business on the settlement date of the conversion right. On conversion of a Security, accrued interest with respect to the converted Security shall not be cancelled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full to the Holder thereof through delivery of the Required Cash Amount and Net Share Amount, if any (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) in exchange for the Security being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof. (g) If the Holder converts more than one Security at the same time, the Required Cash Amount and Net Share Amount, if any (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) shall be based on the total Principal Amount of the Securities converted. 57
(h) If the last day on which a Security may be converted is a Legal Holiday, the Security may be surrendered on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday. (i) Upon surrender of a Security that is converted in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder, a new Security in an authorized denomination equal in Principal Amount to the unconverted portion of the Security surrendered. (j) Upon determining that the Holders are entitled to convert their Securities in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture, the Company will promptly (1) issue a press release and use its reasonable efforts to post such information on its website or otherwise publicly disclose this information or (2) provide notice to the Holders of the Securities in a manner contemplated by this Indenture, including through the facilities of DTC. SECTION 11.03. Fractional Shares. A Holder of a Security otherwise entitled to a fractional share of Common Stock will receive cash equal to such fraction multiplied by the average of the Sale Price for each of the 20 consecutive trading days in the Conversion Reference Period. SECTION 11.04. Effect of Conversion. The Company's delivery to the Holder of the Settlement Amount, will be deemed: (a) to satisfy the Company's obligation to pay the Principal Amount of the Security; and (b) to satisfy any obligation to pay all other amounts owed on the Securities including accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Accrued and unpaid interest will be deemed paid in full rather than canceled, extinguished or forfeited. The Company will not adjust the Conversion Rate to account for accrued interest. SECTION 11.05. Taxes on Conversion. If a Holder converts a Security, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of any shares of Common Stock upon the conversion. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests the shares to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which will be due because the shares are to be delivered in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any party from complying with any tax withholding required by law or regulations. SECTION 11.06. Company to Provide Stock. 58
The Company shall, prior to issuance of any Securities under this Article 11, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the payment of the Net Share Amount, if applicable, upon conversion of the Securities. All shares of Common Stock delivered upon payment of any Net Share Amount, if applicable, upon conversion of the Securities shall be newly issued shares or treasury shares, shall be duly and validly issued and fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim. The Company will comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the offer and delivery of shares of Common Stock upon payment of any Net Share Amount, if applicable, upon conversion of Securities, if any, and will list or cause to have quoted such shares of Common Stock on each national securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market or such other market on which the Common Stock is then listed or quoted. SECTION 11.07. Adjustment for Change In Capital Stock. The Conversion Rate will be adjusted in the event, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company: (a) pays a dividend or makes a distribution on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, shares of other Capital Stock or Subsidiaries' Capital Stock; (b) subdivides its shares of Common Stock; (c) combines its shares of Common Stock; (d) issues by reclassification of its Common Stock any shares of its Capital Stock (other than rights, warrants or options for its Capital Stock); (e) makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock of certain rights to purchase shares of its Common Stock for a period expiring within 60 days from the date of issuance of such rights at less than the average Sale Price for the five consecutive trading days immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution; (f) makes distributions to all holders of Common Stock of the Company's assets or debt securities or rights to purchase securities (excluding cash dividends or other cash distributions from current or retained earnings, those rights to purchase shares of Common Stock referred to in Section 11.07(e) and any dividend or distribution referred to in Section 11.07(a) above); (f) makes a distributions to all holders of Common Stock (excluding quarterly cash dividend on the Company's Common Stock to the extent that the aggregate cash dividend per share of the Common Stock in and fiscal quarter does not exceed $0.10 (the "Dividend Threshold Amount")); and 59
(g) makes a distribution of its or its Subsidiaries' cash or other consideration in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer for Common Stock, where such cash and the value of any such other consideration per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the Sale Price on the trading day following the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to the tender or exchange offer (in which case the adjustment will be made based on the amount by which the consideration exceeds the Sale Price on such trading day). For purposes of clause (f) above, the Dividend Threshold Amount is subject to adjustment according to Section 11.09. In no event will the Conversion Rate be adjusted to the extent the adjustment would reduce the Conversion Price below the par value per share of Common Stock. The "Market Price" of the Common Stock as of any date means the average of the Sale Prices for the 10 consecutive Trading Days ending on the third Business Day (if the third Business Day prior to the applicable date is a Trading Day or, if not, then on the last Trading Day) prior to such date, appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence, during the period commencing on the first of such Trading Days during such 10 Trading Days and ending on such date, of certain events with respect to the Common Stock that would result in an adjustment of the Conversion Rate. SECTION 11.08. Adjustment for Rights Issue. If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes any rights, warrants or options to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, to purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Average Closing Price, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula: (O + N) R' = R x ---------------- (O + (N x P) /M) where: R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate. R = the current Conversion Rate. O = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 11.07 is being applied. N = the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered pursuant to the distribution. P = the offering price per share of the additional shares. M = the Average Closing Price, minus, in the case of (i) a distribution to which Section 11.07(f) applies or (ii) a distribution to which Section 11.08 applies, for which, in each case, (x) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this 60
Section 11.08 applies and (y) the Ex-Dividend Time shall occur on or after the date of the first public announcement for the distribution to which this Section 11.08 applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 11.08 applies) of the (a) Capital Stock of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 11.07(f) distribution and (b) assets of the Company or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 11.08 distribution. The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 11.08. The adjustment shall become effective the trading day immediately prior to the date on which stockholders are no longer entitled to receive the rights, warrants or options to which this Section 11.08 applies whether by determination of a record date by the Company or by trading of "due bills" containing such rights, warrants or options as required by the U.S. National Securities Exchange or quotation market on which the Common Stock is traded. If all of the shares of Common Stock subject to such rights, warrants or options have not been issued when such rights, warrants or options expire, then the Conversion Rate shall promptly be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustment upon the issuance of such rights, warrants or options been made on the basis of the actual number of shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of such rights, warrants or options. No adjustment shall be made under this Section 11.07 if the application of the formula stated above in this Section 11.07 would result in a value of R' that is equal to or less than the value of R. SECTION 11.09. Adjustment for Other Distributions. (a) If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes to all holders of its Common Stock any of its assets (excluding distributions of Capital Stock or equity interests referred to in Section 11.07(b)), or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company (including securities or cash, but excluding (x) distributions of Capital Stock referred to in Section 11.07 and distributions of rights, warrants or options referred to in Section 11.08 and (y) cash dividends or other cash distributions referred to in Section 11.09, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted, subject to the provisions of Section 11.09(c), in accordance with the formula: R x M R' = ----- M - F where: R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate. R = the current Conversion Rate. 61
M = the Average Closing Price, minus, in the case of a distribution to which Section 11.07(f) applies, for which (i) the record date shall occur on or before the record date for the distribution to which this Section 11.08(a) applies and (ii) the Ex-Dividend Time shall occur on or after the date of the Time of Determination for the distribution to which this Section 11.09(a) applies, the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 11.09(a) applies) of any Capital Stock of the Company distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in such Section 11.07(f) distribution. F = the fair market value (on the record date for the distribution to which this Section 11.09(a) applies) of the assets, securities, rights, warrants or options to be distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock in the distribution to which this Section 11.09(a) is being applied (including, in the case of cash dividends or other cash distributions giving rise to an adjustment, all such cash distributed concurrently). The Board of Directors shall determine fair market values for the purposes of this Section 11.09(a). The adjustment shall become effective immediately after the date on which the shareholders are no longer entitled to receive the distribution to which this Section 11.09(a) applies whether by determination of a record date by the Company or by trading of "due bills" containing such rights, warrants or options as required by the U.S. National Securities Exchange or quotation market on which the Common Stock is traded. (b) If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company pays a dividend or makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock consisting of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit of the Company, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula: R' = R x (1 + F/M) R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate. R = the current Conversion Rate. M = the average of the Post-Distribution Prices of the Common Stock for the 11 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the date on which "ex-dividend trading" commences for such dividend or distribution on the principal United States exchange or market which such securities are then listed or quoted. F = the fair market value of the securities distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock for which this Section 11.08(b) shall mean the number of securities distributed in respect of each share of Common Stock multiplied by the average of the Post-Distribution Prices of those securities distributed for the 11 Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day after the date on which "ex-dividend trading" commences for such dividend or distribution on the principal United States exchange or market which such securities are then listed or quoted. 62
"Post-Distribution Price" of Capital Stock or any similar equity interest on any date means the closing per unit sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date for trading of such units on a "when issued" basis without due bills (or similar concept) as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which such Capital Stock or equity interest is traded or, if the Capital Stock or equity interest, as the case may be, is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated; provided that if on any date such units have not traded on a "when issued" basis, the Post-Distribution Price shall be the closing per unit sale price (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date for trading of such units on a "regular way" basis without due bills (or similar concept) as reported in the composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which such Capital Stock or equity interest is traded or, if the Capital Stock or equity interest, as the case may be, is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or by the National Quotation Bureau Incorporated. In the absence of such quotation, the Company shall be entitled to determine the Post-Distribution Price on the basis of such quotations which reflect the post-distribution value of the Capital Stock or equity interests as it considers appropriate. (c) In the event that, with respect to any distribution to which Section 11.09(a) would otherwise apply, the difference "M-F" as defined in the formula set forth in Section 11.09(a) is less than $1.00 or "F" is equal to or greater than "M", then the adjustment provided by Section 11.09(a) shall not be made and in lieu thereof the provisions of Section 11.16 shall apply to such distribution. SECTION 11.10. Adjustment for Cash Dividends. (a) If, after the Issue Date of the Securities, the Company distributes to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock any cash (excluding any dividend or distribution in connection with the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary), the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted, subject to the provisions of Section 11.09(b) in accordance with the formula: M R' = R x ------- (M - C) where, R' = the adjusted Conversion Rate; R = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the Time of Determination; 63
M = the average of the Closing Prices of the Common Stock for the five consecutive Trading Days prior to the Trading Day immediately preceding the Time of Determination; and C = the amount in cash per share the Company distributes to holders in excess of the Dividend Threshold Amount (and for which no adjustment has been made). SECTION 11.11. Adjustment for Tender Offer. If, after the Issue Date, the Company makes a payment of cash or other consideration to holders of Common Stock in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer, other than an odd-lot offer, for the Common Stock, and the value of the sum of (i) the aggregate cash and other consideration paid for such Common Stock, and (ii) the aggregate fair market value of any consideration paid for the purchase of Common Stock in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer, other than an odd-lot offer, within the twelve (12) months preceding the date of purchase of such shares of Common Stock in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to this Section 11.11 previously has been made, expressed as an amount per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged pursuant to such tender offer or exchange offer, exceeds the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately following the last time (the "Expiration Time") on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to the tender or exchange offer, then the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted in accordance with the formula: F + (P x O) R' = R x ----------- O' x P where, R = the Conversion Rate in effect on the Expiration Time; R' = the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Expiration Time; F = the fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors) of the aggregate value of all cash and any other consideration paid or payable for shares of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the Expiration Time (the "Purchased Shares"); O = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Expiration Time less any Purchased Shares; O' = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Expiration Time, including any Purchased Shares; and P = the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time. Such increase (if any) shall become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the Expiration Time. In the event that the Company is obligated to 64
purchase shares pursuant to any such tender offer, but the Company is prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made. If the application of this Section 11.11 to any tender or exchange offer would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate, no adjustment shall be made for such tender or exchange offer under this Section 11.11. SECTION 11.12. Adjustment to Conversion Rate Upon Change in Control Transactions. If, after the Issue Date and prior to April 1, 2011, a Change in Control occurs and a Holder elects to convert its Securities in connection with such Change in Control, the Company will increase the Applicable Conversion Rate for the Securities surrendered by conversion by a number of additional shares of Common Stock (the "Make-Whole Shares"), as described in this Section 11.12. A conversion of Securities will be deemed for the purposes of this Section 11.12 to be "in connection with" a Change in Control transaction if the notice of conversion of the Securities is received by the Conversion Agent from and including the date that is ten Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of the Change in Control, up to and including the Trading Day prior to the related purchase date. The number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by reference to the table below and is based on the date which such Change in Control transaction becomes effective (the "Change in Control Effective Date") and the price (the "Stock Price") paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction. If the holders of Common Stock receive only cash in the Change in Control transaction, the Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. Otherwise, the Stock Price shall be the average of the closing sale prices of the Common Stock on the ten consecutive Trading Days up to but excluding the Change in Control Effective Date. The Stock Prices set forth in the first column of the table below will be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices will equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Applicable Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Applicable Conversion Rate as so adjusted. If the exact Stock Prices and effective dates are not set forth in the table, then: (i) if the Stock Price is between two Stock Price amounts in the table or the effective date is between two dates in the table, the Make-Whole Shares issued upon conversion of the Securities will be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Stock Price amounts and the two dates in the table, based on a 65
365-day year, (ii) if the Stock Price exceeds $300.00 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Securities; and (iii) if the Stock Price is less than $105.55 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth herein, no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Securities. SECTION 11.13. Adjustment to Conversion Rate After a Public Acquirer Change in Control. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11.11, if, following the Issue Date, a Change in Control constituting a Public Acquirer Change in Control occurs, the Company may, in lieu of issuing additional shares of Common Stock upon conversion, elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and the related conversion obligation (the "Conversion Obligation") such that from and after the effective date of such Public Acquirer Change in Control (the "Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date"), Holders shall be entitled to convert their Securities into a number of shares of Public Acquirer Common Stock, still subject to the arrangements for payment upon conversion otherwise applicable pursuant to this Article 11, by adjusting the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before the Public Acquirer Change in Control by a fraction (i) the numerator of which will be (a) in the case of a consolidation, merger or binding share exchange pursuant to which the Common Stock is converted into cash, securities or other property, the average value of all cash and any other consideration (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company) paid or payable per share of Common Stock or (b) in the case of any other Public Acquirer Change in Control, the average Sale Price for the 10 consecutive Trading Days prior to but excluding the Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date; and (ii) the denominator of which will be the average of the last reported sales prices of the Public Acquirer Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Days commencing on the Trading Day next succeeding the Public Acquirer Change in Control Effective Date. A "Public Acquirer Change in Control" means a Change in Control in which the acquirer has a class of common stock traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or quoted on The Nasdaq National Market or which will be so traded or quoted when issued or exchanged in connection with such change in control (the "Public Acquirer Common Stock"). If an acquirer does not itself have a class of common stock satisfying the foregoing requirement, it will be deemed to have "public acquirer common stock" if a corporation that directly or indirectly owns at least a majority of the acquirer has a class of common stock satisfying the foregoing requirement, in such case, all references to public acquirer common stock shall refer to such class of common stock. Majority owned for these purposes means having "beneficial ownership" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act of more than 50% of the total voting power of all shares of the respective entity's capital stock that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. Upon a Public Acquirer Change in Control, at the election of the Company, Holders may convert their Securities at the adjusted Conversion Rate described in the second preceding paragraph in this Section 11.12 but shall not be entitled to receive additional shares upon conversion as described herein. The Company shall be required to notify Holders of its election in its notice to holders of such Public Acquirer Change in Control pursuant to Section 3.01. 66
Within 10 Trading Days prior to but not including the expected effective date of a Change in Control that is also a Public Acquirer Change In Control, the Company will provide to all Holders of the Securities and the Trustee and Paying Agent a notification stating whether the Company will: (a) elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and related Conversion Obligation, in which case the Holders will not have the right to receive additional shares upon conversion, as described in Section 11.11; or (b) not elect to adjust the Conversion Rate and related Conversion Obligation, in which case the Holders will have the right to convert Securities and, if applicable, receive additional shares upon conversion as described above described in Section 11.11. SECTION 11.14. When Adjustment May Be Deferred. No adjustment in the Conversion Rate will be required unless such adjustment would require a change of at least 1% of the Conversion Rate then in effect; provided that any adjustment that would otherwise be required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all such carried forward adjustments shall be made at the time notice of redemption is mailed and thereafter any Conversion Rate adjustment shall be made without regard to the 1% threshold described in the preceding sentence. No adjustment need be made if Holders may participate in the transaction (without exercising their conversion option) that would otherwise give rise to such an adjustment. In cases where the fair market value of assets, debt securities or certain rights, warrants or options to purchase our securities distributed to stockholders (a) equals or exceeds the Market Price of Common Stock, or (b) such Market Price exceeds the fair market value of such assets, debt securities or rights, warrants or options so distributed by less than $1.00, rather than being entitled to an adjustment in the Conversion Rate, the Holder will be entitled to receive upon conversion, in addition to the shares of Common Stock, the kind and amount of assets, debt securities or rights, warrants or options comprising the distribution that such Holder would have received if such Holder had converted such Holder's Securities immediately prior to the Regular Record Date for determining the stockholders entitled to receive the distribution. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article 11, in no event will the Conversion Rate exceed 7.8952 shares per $1,000 Principal Amount of the Securities, as adjusted, other than on account of Sections 11.07, 11.08, 11.09, 11.11, 11.12 and 11.13. All calculations under this Article 11 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest 1/1,000th of a share, as the case may be (with one-half cent and 5/10,000ths of a share being rounded upward). SECTION 11.15. When No Adjustment Required. (a) No adjustment need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 11.07, 11.08, 11.09, 11.10, 11.11 or 11.19 if Securityholders are to participate in the transaction on a basis and with notice that the Board of Directors determines to be fair and appropriate in light of 67
the basis and notice on which holders of Common Stock participate in the transaction. Such participation by Securityholders may include participation upon conversion provided that an adjustment shall be made at such time as the Securityholders are no longer entitled to participate. (b) No adjustment need be made for rights to purchase Common Stock pursuant to a Company plan for reinvestment of dividends or interest. (c) No adjustment need be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock. (d) To the extent the Securities become convertible pursuant to this Article 11 into cash, no adjustment need be made thereafter as to the cash. Interest will not accrue on the cash. (e) Upon conversion of the Securities, the Holders of such Securities will receive, to the extent that the Company delivers shares of Common Stock upon such conversion, the rights related to such Common Stock pursuant to any existing or future shareholder rights plan, whether or not such rights have separated from the Common Stock at the time of such conversion. However, there will not be any adjustment to the conversion privilege or Conversion Rate as a result of: (i) the issuance of such rights; (ii) the distribution of separate certificates representing such rights; (iii) the exercise or redemption of such rights in accordance with any rights agreement; or (iv) the termination or invalidation of such rights. (f) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Holder of Securities exercising its right of conversion after the distribution of rights pursuant to any rights plan in effect at the time of such conversion is not entitled to receive the rights that would otherwise be attributable (but for the date of conversion) to the shares of Common Stock to be received upon such conversion, if any, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted as though the rights were being distributed to Holders of Common Stock on the date the rights become separable from such stock. If such an adjustment is made and such rights are later redeemed, invalidated or terminated, then a corresponding reversing adjustment will be made to the conversion rate on an equitable basis. SECTION 11.16. Notice of Adjustment. Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Company shall promptly mail to Securityholders a notice of the adjustment. The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent such notice and a certificate from the Company's independent public accountants briefly stating the facts requiring the adjustment and the manner of computing it. The certificate shall be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any duty or responsibility with respect to any such certificate except to exhibit the same to any Holder desiring inspection thereof. 68
SECTION 11.17. Voluntary Increase. The Company from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased, the Company shall mail to Securityholders and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice of the increase. The Company shall mail the notice at least 15 days before the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect. The notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period it will be in effect. A voluntary increase of the Conversion Rate does not change or adjust the Conversion Rate otherwise in effect for purposes of Section 11.07, 11.08, 11.09, 11.10, 11.11 or 11.12. SECTION 11.18. Notice of Certain Transactions. If: (a) the Company takes any action that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 11.07, 11.08, 11.09, 11.10, 11.11 or 11.12 (unless no adjustment is to occur pursuant to Section 11.15); or (b) the Company takes any action that would require a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 11.19; or (c) there is a liquidation or dissolution of the Company; then the Company shall mail to Securityholders and file with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent a notice stating the proposed record date for a dividend or distribution or the proposed effective date of a subdivision, combination, reclassification, consolidation, merger, binding share exchange, transfer, liquidation or dissolution. The Company shall file and mail the notice at least 15 days before such date. Failure to file or mail the notice or any defect in it shall not affect the validity of the transaction. SECTION 11.19. Reorganization of Company; Special Distributions. If the Company is a party to a transaction subject to Section 5.01 (other than a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in a transaction in which the holders of Common Stock immediately prior to such transaction do not receive securities, cash or other assets of the Company or any other person) or a merger or binding share exchange which reclassifies or changes the outstanding Common Stock of the Company, the person obligated to deliver securities, cash or other assets upon conversion of Securities shall enter into a supplemental indenture. If the issuer of securities deliverable upon conversion of Securities is an Affiliate of the successor Company, that issuer shall join in the supplemental indenture. The supplemental indenture shall provide that after the effective time of the transaction, settlement of the Net Share Amount will be based on the kind and amount of cash, securities or other assets of the Company or another Person that a holder of Common Stock received in such transaction (or, if such transaction provides for the holders of Common Stock 69
the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock); provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Conversion Value will be paid in cash and at the Company's election, cash, common stock or a combination of cash and common stock in accordance with the terms of this Article 11. The supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practical to the adjustments provided for in this Article 11. The successor Company shall mail to Securityholders a notice briefly describing the supplemental indenture. If this Section applies, neither Section 11.07 nor 11.08 applies. If the Company makes a distribution to all holders of its Common Stock of any of its assets, or debt securities or any rights, warrants or options to purchase securities of the Company that, but for the provisions of Section 11.09(c), would otherwise result in an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to the provisions of Section 11.09, then, from and after the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution, a Holder of a Security that converts such Security in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture shall upon such conversion be entitled to receive, in addition to the shares of Common Stock into which the Security is convertible, the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets comprising the distribution that such Holder would have received if such Holder had converted the Security immediately prior to the record date for determining the holders of Common Stock entitled to receive the distribution. SECTION 11.20. Company Determination Final. Any determination that the Company or the Board of Directors must make pursuant to Section 11.03, 11.07, 11.08, 11.09, 11.10, 11.11, 11.14, 11.15, 11.19 or 11.22 is conclusive. SECTION 11.21. Trustee's Adjustment Disclaimer. The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article 10 should be made, how it should be made or what it should be. The Trustee has no duty to determine whether a supplemental indenture under Section 11.19 need be entered into or whether any provisions of any supplemental indenture are correct. The Trustee shall not be accountable for and makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Securities. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with this Article 11. Each Conversion Agent and Paying Agent shall have the same protection under this Section 11.21 as the Trustee. SECTION 11.22. Simultaneous Adjustments. In the event that this Article 11 requires adjustments to the Conversion Rate under more than one of Sections 11.07(4), 11.08, 11.09 or 11.10, and the record dates for the distributions giving rise to such adjustments shall occur on the same date, then such adjustments shall be made by applying, first, the provisions of Section 11.07, second, the provisions of Section 11.09, third, the provisions of Section 11.10 and, fourth, the provisions of 11.08. 70
SECTION 11.23. Successive Adjustments. After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Article 11, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Article 11 shall cause an adjustment to the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. SECTION 11.24. Rights Issued in Respect of Common Stock Issued Upon Conversion. Each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Securities pursuant to this Article 11 shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of rights ("Rights"), if any, and the certificates representing the Common Stock issued upon such conversion shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of the Company's Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2000, between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as Rights Agent, or any successor shareholder rights agreement adopted by the Company, as the same may be amended form time to time (in each case, a "Shareholders Rights Plan"). Provided that such Shareholders Rights Plan requires that each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Securities (or cash in lieu thereof) at any time prior to the distribution of separate certificates representing the Rights be entitled to receive such Rights, then, notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in this Article 10, there shall not be any adjustment to the conversion privilege or Conversion Rate as a result of the issuance of Rights, the distribution of separate certificates representing the Rights, the exercise or redemption of such Rights in accordance with any Shareholders Rights Plan, or the termination or invalidation of such Rights. SECTION 11.25. Withholding Taxes for Adjustments in Conversion Rate. If the Company pays withholding taxes on behalf of a Holder as a result of an adjustment to the Conversion Rate, the Company may, at its option, set off such payments against payments of cash and Common Stock on the Securities. ARTICLE 12 PAYMENT OF INTEREST SECTION 12.01. Interest Payments. Interest on any Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any applicable Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the person in whose name that Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose. Each installment of interest payable in cash on any Security shall be paid in same-day funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located inside the United States, if the Trustee shall have received proper wire transfer instructions from such payee not later than the related Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, or, if no such instructions have been received by check drawn on a bank in the City of New York mailed to the payee at its address set forth on the Registrar's books. In the case of a permanent Global Security, interest 71
payable on any applicable payment date will be paid to the Depositary, with respect to that portion of such permanent Global Security held for its account by Cede & Co. for the purpose of permitting such party to credit the interest received by it in respect of such permanent Global Security to the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof. SECTION 12.02. Defaulted Interest. Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Securities, any interest on any Security that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, within 30 days following any applicable payment date (herein called "Defaulted Interest", which term shall include any accrued and unpaid interest that has accrued on such defaulted amount in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Securities), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (a) or (b) below. All such Defaulted Interest shall be payable on the next Interest Payment Date. (a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the persons in whose names the Securities are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date of the proposed payment (which shall not be less than 20 days after such notice is received by the Trustee), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a special record date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment (the "Special Record Date"). The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities at his address as it appears on the list of Securityholders maintained pursuant to Section 2.05 not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been mailed as aforesaid, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the persons in whose names the Securities are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2). (b) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee. 72
SECTION 12.03. Interest Rights Preserved. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Article 12 and Section 2.07, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security. ARTICLE 13 MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 13.01. Trust Indenture Act Controls. If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control. SECTION 13.02. Notices. Any notice or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: if to the Company: Allergan, Inc. 2525 Dupont Drive Irvine, CA 92715-1599 Attention: Matthew J. Maletta, Esq. if to the Trustee: Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 707 Wilshire Blvd, 17th Floor Los Angeles, CA 90017 Attn: Maddy Hall, Corporate Trust Services Facsimile: 213-614-3355 All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) will be deemed to have been given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered and five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed. The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. Any notice or communication given to a Holder shall be mailed to such Holder at the Holder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver. 73
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee. If the Company mails a notice or communication to the Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and the Agents. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication. SECTION 13.03. Communication by Holders with Other Holders. Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company and the Trustee, the Registrar or the Paying Agent, and anyone else, shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c). SECTION 13.04. Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent. Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee: (a) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and (b) at the request of the Trustee, an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with. SECTION 13.05. Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion. Each Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include: (a) a statement that each person making such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition; (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based; (c) a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (d) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, such covenant or condition has been complied with. SECTION 13.06. Separability Clause. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 74
SECTION 13.07. Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar. The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Holders. The Agents may make reasonable rules for their functions. SECTION 13.08. Legal Holidays. A "Legal Holiday" is any day other than a Business Day. If any specified date (including an Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity of any Security, or a date for giving notice) is a Legal Holiday, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities other than a provision which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section) payment of interest or Principal need not be made, or such other action need not be taken, on such date, but the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Maturity or such other date and to the extent applicable no interest, if any, shall accrue for the intervening period. SECTION 13.09. Governing Law. This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of New York, as applied to contracts made and performed within the state of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of law. SECTION 13.10. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities. SECTION 13.11. Successors. All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor. SECTION 13.12. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. SECTION 13.13. Benefits of Indenture. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefits or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture. 75
SECTION 13.14. Multiple Originals. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture. ALLERGAN, INC. By: /s/ Jeffrey L. Edwards ------------------------------------ Name: Jeffrey L. Edwards ---------------------------------- Title:Executive Vice President, --------------------------------- Finance and Business Development, --------------------------------- Chief Financial Officer --------------------------------- Attest: /s/ Matthew J. Maletta -------------------------------- Name: Matthew J. Maletta ---------------------------------- Title: Vice President, Assistant General --------------------------------- Counsel and Assistant Secretary --------------------------------- TRUSTEE By: WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By: /s/ Maddy Hall ------------------------------------ Name: Maddy Hall ---------------------------------- Title: Assistant Vice President --------------------------------- Attest: /s/ Scott C. Emmons -------------------------------- Name: Scott C. Emmons ---------------------------------- Title: Vice President --------------------------------- 76
EXHIBIT A [FORM OF FACE OF SECURITY] UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.(1) TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.(1) THIS SECURITY AND THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY, THE SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION.(2) BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE LAST ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SECURITY) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN - ---------- (1) This paragraph should be included only if the Security is a Global Security. (2) This paragraph should be included only if the Security is a Restricted Security. A-1
RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE AND DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATES AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY.(3) - ---------- (3) This paragraph should be included only if the Security is a Restricted Security. A-2
ALLERGAN, INC. 1.50% CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTE DUE 2026 No. S-1 CUSIP: __________ Issue Date: __________________ Principal Amount: ____________ ALLERGAN, INC., a Delaware Corporation, promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the Principal Amount of _______ ($____) on April 1, 2026. This Security shall bear cash interest at the rate of 1.50% per annum. This Security is convertible as specified on the other side of this Security. Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security. Dated: ------------- ALLERGAN, INC. By: ------------------------------------ Name: Title: TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. By: --------------------------------- Authorized Officer A-3
[FORM OF REVERSE SIDE OF SECURITY] 1.50% CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTE DUE 2026 1. INTEREST This Security shall bear cash interest at the rate of 1.50% per annum. Interest on this Security shall accrue from the Issue Date, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for. Interest shall be payable semiannually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on October 1, 2006, to the holders of record of Securities at the close of business on the March 15 or September 15 immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. Each payment of cash interest on this Security shall include interest accrued for the period commencing on and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or, if none, the scheduled original Issue Date) through the day before the applicable Interest Payment Date or purchase date. Any payment required to be made on any day that is not a Business Day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day. Interest shall be calculated using a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. Interest shall cease to accrue on this Security upon its Maturity, conversion or purchase by the Company at the option of the Holder upon a Change in Control in accordance with paragraph 5 hereof. If the Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such Principal Amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration pursuant to Section 7.02 of the Indenture, upon the date set for payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price pursuant to paragraph 5 hereof or upon the Maturity of this Security) or if interest due hereon or any portion of such interest is not paid when due in accordance with paragraph 5 or 7 hereof, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate of 1.125% per annum, compounded semiannually, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable on the next Interest Payment Date. 2. METHOD OF PAYMENT Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will make payments in respect of Purchase Prices and Change in Control Purchase Prices and at Maturity to Holders who surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Securities. The Company will pay any cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money. 3. PAYING AGENT, CONVERSION AGENT AND REGISTRAR Initially, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association (the "Trustee"), will act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar. The Company may maintain deposit accounts and conduct other banking transactions with the Trustee in the normal course of business. A-4
4. INDENTURE The Company issued the Securities under an Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee. The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as in effect from time to time (the "TIA"). Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Securityholders are referred to the Indenture for a statement of those terms. The Securities are senior unsecured obligations of the Company limited to up to $750,000,000 aggregate Principal Amount (subject to Section 2.08 of the Indenture). The Indenture does not limit other indebtedness of the Company, secured or unsecured. 5. OPTIONAL REDEMPTION BY THE COMPANY At any time on or after April 5, 2009, and until (but excluding) April 4, 2011 the Company may redeem the Securities for Cash, in whole or in part, only if the Sale Price of Common Stock is equal to or greater than 130% of the Conversion Price then in effect for at least 20 Trading Days in the period of 30 consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding the date of the Company's mailing of the Notice of Redemption, where the "Conversion Price" means the then applicable Redemption Price divided by the Conversion Rate. Beginning on April 5, 2011 the Company may redeem all or part of the Securities for cash at a price equal to 100% of the Principal Amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, to but excluding the Redemption Date. 6. PURCHASE BY THE COMPANY AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER Securities or portions thereof shall be purchased by the Company at the option of the holder for cash on the Repurchase Dates of April 1, 2011, April 1, 2016 and April 1, 2021, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be repurchased. The Company shall pay any accrued and unpaid interest, including Additional Interest, if any, thereon to, but excluding, such Repurchase Date to the holders of such Securities at the close of business on the record date immediately preceding such Repurchase Date. Securities in denominations larger than $1,000 of Principal Amount at Maturity may be purchased in part, but only in integral multiples of $1,000 of Principal Amount at Maturity. 7. PURCHASE BY THE COMPANY AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER UPON A CHANGE IN CONTROL At the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to purchase the Securities held by such Holder no the date that is 20 Business Days after the delivery of a Change of Control Notice to be delivered in connection with the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company for a Change in Control Purchase Price equal to the Principal Amount of the Securities to be A-5
purchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Change in Control Purchase Date, which Change in Control Purchase Price shall be paid in cash. Holders have the right to withdraw any Change in Control Purchase Notice by delivering to the Paying Agent a written Notice of Withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture. If cash (and/or securities if permitted under the Indenture) sufficient to pay the Change in Control Purchase Price, of, together with any accrued and unpaid interest with respect to, all Securities or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Change in Control Purchase Date is deposited with the Paying Agent on or prior to the third Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date, interest shall cease to accrue on such Securities (or portions thereof) immediately after such Change in Control Purchase Date whether or not the Security is delivered to the Paying Agent, and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such (other than the right to receive the Change in Control Purchase Price and accrued and unpaid interest upon surrender of such Security). 8. CONVERSION Subject to the conditions and upon compliance with the provisions of Article 11 of the Indenture, a Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert all or any portion (if the portion to be converted is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) of such Security at any time if one or more of the following conditions for conversion are satisfied: (i) during any fiscal quarter the Sale Price for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last Trading Day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter of the Company exceeds the Conversion Trigger Price. (ii) the Company calls the Securities for redemption, a Holder may surrender Securities for conversion from the date of the Notice of Conversion until the close of business on the second Business Day prior to the Redemption Date; or (iii) In the event that the Company: (1) elects to distribute to all holders of Common Stock rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, Common Stock at less than the average Sale Price for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the first record date for such distribution; or (2) elects to distribute to all holders of Common Stock cash, debt securities (or other evidence of Indebtedness) or other assets (excluding dividends or distributions described in Sections 11.07(a) and (b) of the Indenture, which distribution has a per share value as determined by the Company's Board of Directors exceeding 15% of the average of the average Sale Price for the five consecutive Trading Days ending on the date immediately preceding the record date for such distribution, or A-6
(c) is a party to a Change in Control, or, upon an event that would have been such a Change in Control but for the existence of one of the exceptions set forth in Section 4.02 of the Indenture; a Holder may surrender Securities for conversion at any time from and after the date which is 15 days prior to the anticipated effective time of the Change in Control transaction until 15 days after the actual effective date of such Change in Control transaction (or, if such transaction also constitutes a Change in Control, until the Change in Control Purchase Date). After the effective time of the transaction, settlement of the Conversion Value will be based on the kind and amount of cash, securities or other assets of the Company or another Person that a holder of Common Stock received in such transaction (or, if such transaction provides for the holders of Common Stock the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of Common Stock); provided that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Conversion Value will be paid in cash and at the Company's election, cash, common stock or a combination of cash and common stock in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. The Company will notify Holders and the Trustee as promptly as practicable following the date the Company publicly announces such transaction (but in no event less than 20 days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction). Holders may surrender their Securities for conversion at any time on or after February 1, 2026 until the close of business on the day immediately preceding the Maturity Date. A Holder may convert a portion of the Principal Amount of a Security if the portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to conversion of all of a Security also apply to conversion of a portion of a Security. The ability to surrender Securities for conversion will expire at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Maturity Date. The Conversion Rate will be adjusted for dividends or distributions on Common Stock payable in Common Stock or other Capital Stock; subdivisions, combinations or certain reclassifications of Common Stock; distributions to all holders of Common Stock of certain rights to purchase Common Stock for a period expiring within 60 days of the record date for such distribution at less than the Closing Price of the Common Stock at the Time of Determination; distributions to such holders of assets (including shares of Capital Stock of a Subsidiary) or debt securities of the Company or certain rights to purchase securities of the Company; cash dividends or cash distributions; and distributions in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer of the Common Stock. However, no adjustment need be made if Securityholders may participate in the transaction or in certain other cases. The Company from time to time may voluntarily increase the Conversion Rate. 9. DEFAULTED INTEREST Except as otherwise specified with respect to the Securities, any Defaulted Interest on any Security shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder thereof on the relevant Regular Record Date or accrual date, as the case may be, by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company as provided for in Section 12.02 of the Indenture. A-7
10. DENOMINATIONS; TRANSFER; EXCHANGE The Securities are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of Principal Amount and integral multiples of $1,000. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not register the transfer or exchange of any Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Security to be purchased in part, the portion of the Security not to be purchased). 11. PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of this Security for all purposes. 12. UNCLAIMED MONEY OR SECURITIES The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or Securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property laws. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or Securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person. 13. AMENDMENT; WAIVER Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Securities may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding and (ii) certain Defaults may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Securityholder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Securities to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency, or to comply with Article 6 of the Indenture, to add to the Company's covenants for the benefit of the Securityholders or to surrender any right or power conferred, to comply with any requirement of the SEC in connection with the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA and any amendment thereof, or to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holders. 14. DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES Under the Indenture, Events of Default include: (a) the Company defaults in the payment of the Principal Amount, a Redemption Price, Repurchase Price or a Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to any Security when such becomes due and payable; (b) the payment of any interest due upon any Security when the same becomes due and payable and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; A-8
(c) the Company fails to deliver the Settlement Amount due in accordance with the terms of this Security and the Indenture upon conversion of the Securities, together with cash in respect of any fractional shares, upon conversion of any Securities and such default continues for a period of five days or more; (d) the Company fails to comply with any of its agreements, covenants or warranties in the Securities or the Indenture (other than those referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above) and such failure continues for 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default; (e) the Company shall fail to (i) make any payment by the end of any applicable grace period of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $75,000,000 and continuance of such failure, or (ii) the acceleration of Indebtedness in an amount in excess of $75,000,000 because of a default with respect to such Indebtedness without such Indebtedness having been discharged or such acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, in the case of subclause (i) of this clause (5), for a period of 30 days after written notice to us by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities then outstanding; provided, however, that if any such failure or acceleration referred to in (a) or (b) above shall cease or be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof shall be deemed not to have occurred; or (f) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, may declare the Principal Amount through the date of such declaration, and any accrued and unpaid interest through, but excluding, the date of such declaration, on all the Securities to be due and payable immediately. Under certain circumstances, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities may rescind any Acceleration with respect to the Securities and its consequences. Securityholders may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Securities unless it receives indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Securityholders notice of any continuing Default (except a Default in payment of amounts specified in clause (i) or (ii) above) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests. 15. TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH THE COMPANY Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates A-9
and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. 16. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Securityholder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities. 17. AUTHENTICATION This Security shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Security. 18. ABBREVIATIONS Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act). 19. GOVERNING LAW THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY. The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Security in larger type. Requests may be made to: Allergan Inc. 2525 Dupont Drive Irvine, California 92612 Telephone No.: 949-246-4500 Facsimile No.: 714-246-4774 Attention: Matthew J. Maletta, Esq. A-10
EXHIBIT B ASSIGNMENT FORM To assign this Security, fill in the form below: I or we assign and transfer this Security to ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Insert assignee's soc. sec. or tax ID no.) ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code) and irrevocably appoint _____________________ agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him. B-1
EXHIBIT C FORM OF CONVERSION NOTICE To convert this Security into Common Stock of the Company, check the box: [ ] To convert only part of this Security, state the Principal Amount to be converted (which must be $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000): $_________________________ If you want the stock certificate made out in another person's name, fill in the form below: ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Insert other person's soc. sec. or tax ID no.) ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Print or type other person's name, address and zip code) Date: Your Signature: ------------------------------- ------------------------ ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ (Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security C-1
EXHIBIT D FORM OF REPURCHASE NOTICE To: Allergan, Inc. The undersigned hereby requests and instructs the Company to repay the entire principal amount of this Note, or a portion hereof (which is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, on ___________ ___, _____ in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this Note at the Repurchase Price, to the registered holder hereof. [If certificated Securities have been issued, add: The certificate number of the Securities that the holder will deliver to be purchased is _____. If the Securities are not in certificated form, the Repurchase Notice must comply with appropriate Depositary procedures.] Securities shall be purchased by the Company as of the Repurchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Securities and in the Indenture. Dated: ------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- Signature(s) ---------------------------------------- Social Security or Other Taxpayer Identification Number Principal amount to be repaid (if less than all): $_,000 NOTICE: The above signatures of the holder(s) hereof must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. D-1
EXHIBIT E FORM OF CHANGE IN CONTROL PURCHASE NOTICE To: Allergan, Inc. The undersigned registered owner of this Note hereby acknowledges receipt of a notice from Allergan, Inc. (the "Company") as to the occurrence of a Change in Control with respect to the Company and requests and instructs the Company to repay the entire principal amount of this Note, or the portion thereof (which is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) below designated, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this Note, to the registered holder hereof. [If certificated Securities have been issued, add: The certificate number of the Securities that the holder will deliver to be purchased is _____. If the Securities are not in certificated form, the Change in Control Repurchase Notice must comply with appropriate Depositary procedures.] Securities shall be purchased by the Company as of the Change of Control Purchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Securities and in the Indenture. Dated: ------------------------------ ---------------------------------------- Signature(s) - ------------------------------------- Social Security or Other Taxpayer Identification Number Principal amount to be repaid (if less than all): $___,000 NOTICE: The above signatures of the holder(s) hereof must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the Note in every particular without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. E-1

Exhibit 4.2 ================================================================================ ALLERGAN, INC. SENIOR DEBT SECURITIES ---------- INDENTURE DATED AS OF APRIL 12, 2006 ---------- WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, AS TRUSTEE ================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS i
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued) Exhibit A Form of Note iii
Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between Allergan, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (the "Trustee"). Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the 5.75% Senior Notes due 2016: ARTICLE 1 DEFINITIONS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE SECTION 1.01. Definitions. "Additional Interest" means all additional interest then owing pursuant to Section 8 of the Registration Rights Agreement. "Additional Notes" means an unlimited additional aggregate principal amount of Notes (other than Initial Notes) issued after the date hereof pursuant to Section 2.15 as part of the same series as the Initial Notes. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agent" means any Registrar and Paying Agent. "Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper, in the English language or, at the option of the Company, in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in the place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different Authorized Newspapers meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day. "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar Federal or state law for the relief of debtors. "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such board. "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. "Capital Stock" for any corporation means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation. "Certificated Note" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.02(d) hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto except that such note shall not bear the Global Notes Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto. "Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking, Societe Anonyme. "Company" means the party named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee. "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed, that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes. "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date. "Consolidated Tangible Net Assets" means the total of the Net Tangible Assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries, included in their financial statements prepared on a consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, after eliminating all intercompany items. "Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which any particular time this Indenture shall be principally administered, which initially shall be 707 Wilshire Blvd., 17th Floor, Los Angeles, CA 90017. "Custodian" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law. "Default" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default. 2
"Depositary" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Notes, the person designated as Depositary by the Company, which Depositary shall be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act; and if at any time there is more than one such person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Notes shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Notes. "Dollar" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts. "DTC" means The Depository Trust Company. "Euro-clear" means the operator of the Euro-clear System, an international securities clearing house. "Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear Clearance System. "Event of Default" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.01. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Exchange Notes" means debt securities of the Company substantially identical in all material respects to Notes originally issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act (except that the transfer restrictions pertaining thereto, the provisions for additional interest and the first interest payment date will be modified or eliminated, as appropriate), to be issued pursuant to this Indenture pursuant to a Registered Exchange Offer for a like principal amount of Notes originally issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and any replacement Notes issued therefor in accordance with this Indenture. "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. "Funded Debt" means all indebtedness maturing one year or more from the date of the creation thereof, all indebtedness directly or indirectly renewable or extendable, at the option of the debtor, by its terms or by the terms of any instrument or agreement relating thereto, to a date one year or more from the date of the creation thereof, and all indebtedness under a revolving credit or similar agreement obligating the lender or lenders to extend credit over a period of one year or more. "Global Note" means a permanent Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto that bears the Global Notes Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, and that represents all or a part of the Notes and is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary. "Indenture" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof. 3
"Initial Notes" means the initial $800,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes originally issued under this Indenture on the date hereof, and any replacement Notes, and Exchange Notes issued therefor in accordance with this Indenture. "Interest Payment Date," when used with respect to any Note, means the date an installment of interest is due and payable on such Note. "Legal Holiday" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.08. "Lien" means any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance. "Maturity," means the date on which the Principal of a Note becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise. "Maturity Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01. "Net Tangible Assets" of any Person means the total of all assets properly appearing on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, after deducting from such total, without duplication of deductions, (a) all current liabilities of such Person under generally accepted accounting principles, (b) that portion of the book amount of all such assets which would be treated as intangibles under generally accepted accounting principles, including, without limitation, all such items as good will, trademarks, trade names, brands, copyrights, patents, licenses and rights with respect to the foregoing and unamortized debt discount and expense; and (c) the amount, if any, at which any stock of such Person appears on the asset side of such balance sheet. "Notes" means any of the Company's 5.75% Senior Notes due 2016 issued and authenticated pursuant to this Indenture. All Initial Notes and the Additional Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture. "Noteholder" or "Holder," when used with respect to any Note, means, in the case of a Certificated Note, a person in whose name a Note is registered on the Registrar's books. "Notice of Default" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.01. "Officer" means the chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Secretary, any Assistant Treasurer or any Assistant Secretary of the Company. "Officers' Certificate" means a written certificate signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee. 4
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 11.04 and 11.05, from legal counsel who is acceptable to the Trustee. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company or the Trustee. "Outstanding Notes" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.09. "Paying Agent" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.04. "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "Principal" or "Principal Amount" of a Note, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, means the outstanding principal of the Note. "Private Placement Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 2.13(g) to be placed on all Notes issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture. "QIB" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A. "Reference Treasury Dealer" means Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, and any successor firm; provided that, if any of Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ceases to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer, the Company will substitute another nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a primary U.S. Government securities dealer. "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding that Redemption Date. "Redemption Date" or "redemption date," when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, shall mean the date specified for redemption of such Note in accordance with the terms of such Note and this Indenture. "Registered Exchange Offer" means an exchange offer by the Company registered under the Securities Act pursuant to which Notes originally issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act are exchanged for Exchange Notes not bearing the Private Placement Legend. "Registrar" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.04. "Registration Rights Agreement" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 12, 2006, by and among the Company, and the other parties named on the signature 12ges thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, 5
and, with respect to any Additional Notes, one or more registration rights agreements between the Company and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of Additional Notes to register such Additional Notes under the Securities Act. "Regular Record Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01. "Remaining Schedule Payments" means the remaining scheduled payments of principal of and interest on the Notes that would be due after the related Redemption Date but for that redemption. If that Redemption Date is not an Interest Payment Date, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment on the Notes will be reduced by the amount of interest accrued on the Notes to such Redemption Date. "Restricted Certificated Note" means a Certificated Note bearing the Private Placement Legend. "Restricted Global Note" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend. "Restricted Period" means the 40-day distribution compliance period as defined in Regulation S. "Restricted Property" means (a) any manufacturing facility, or portion thereof, owned or leased by the Company or any Subsidiary and located within the continental United States, which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, is of material importance to the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, but no such manufacturing facility, or portion thereof, shall be deemed of material importance if its gross book value (before deducting accumulated depreciation) is less than 2% of Consolidated Tangible Net Assets, or (b) any shares of capital stock of any Subsidiary owning any such manufacturing facility. As used in this definition, "manufacturing facility" means property, plant and equipment used for actual manufacturing such as quality assurance, engineering, maintenance, staging area for work in process materials, employees' eating and comfort facilities and manufacturing administration, and it excludes sales offices, research facilities and facilities used only for warehousing or general administration. "Rule 144" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act. "Rule 144A Global Note" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 144A. "Rule 904" means Rule 904 promulgated under the Securities Act. "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means any arrangement with any Person pursuant to which the Company or any Subsidiary leases any Restricted Property that has been or 6
is to be sold or transferred by the Company or the Subsidiary to such Person, other than (1) temporary leases for a term, including renewals at the option of the lessee, of not more than three years, (2) leases between the Company and a Subsidiary or between Subsidiaries, (3) leases of a Restricted Property executed by the time of, or within 12 months after the latest of, the acquisition, the completion of construction or improvement, or the commencement of commercial operation of the Restricted Property, and (4) arrangements pursuant to any provision of law with an effect similar to the former Section 168(f)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. "SEC" means the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "Stated Maturity," when used with respect to any Note or any installment of Principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Note as the fixed date on which an amount equal to the Principal of such Note or an installment of Principal thereof or interest thereon is due and payable. "Subsidiary" means a corporation of which a majority of the Capital Stock having voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the board of directors of such corporation is owned by (i) the Company, (ii) the Company and one or more Subsidiaries or (iii) one or more Subsidiaries. "TIA" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture, except as provided in Section 9.03. "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date for the Notes, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity (computed as of the third Business Day immediately preceding that Redemption Date) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date. "Trust Officer" means any officer of the Trustee assigned by the Trustee to administer its corporate trust matters. "Trustee" means the party named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. "United States" means the United States of America, its territories, its possessions (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico), and other areas subject to its jurisdiction. "Unrestricted Certificated Note" means one or more Certificated Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend. "Unrestricted Global Note" means a permanent Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto that bears the Global Notes Legend and that has the "Schedule of 7
Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of Notes that do not bear the Private Placement Legend. "Value" means, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the present value of the lease payments with respect to the term of the lease remaining on the date as of which the amount is being determined, without regard to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease, discounted at the weighted average interest rate on the Notes which are outstanding on the effective date of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and which have the benefit of Section 4.06. SECTION 1.02. Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act. If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties that would be imposed by any of Sections 310 to 317 of the TIA through operation of Section 318(c) thereof on any person if this Indenture were qualified under the TIA, such imposed duties shall control. Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings: "Commission" means the SEC. "indenture securities" means the Notes. "indenture security holder" means a Holder or Noteholder. "indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture. "indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee. "obligor" on the indenture securities means the Company and any successor obligor upon the notes. All other TIA terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA by reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions. SECTION 1.03. Rules of Construction. Unless the context otherwise requires: (1) a term has the meaning assigned to it; (2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as in effect from time to time; (3) "or" is not exclusive; (4) "including" means including, without limitation; and 8
(5) words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular. ARTICLE 2 THE NOTES SECTION 2.01. Terms of the Notes. The entire outstanding principal of the Notes will mature on April 1, 2016 (the "Maturity Date"). The Notes shall be in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Notes shall be denominated in U.S. dollars and all payments of principal and interest on the Notes shall be made in U.S. dollars. The Notes shall bear interest at a rate of 5.75% per annum; the date from which interest shall accrue shall be April 12, 2006; the Interest Payment Dates for the Notes on which interest shall be payable shall be April 1 and October 1 in each year, beginning October 1, 2006; the Regular Record Dates for the interest payable on the Notes on any Interest Payment Date shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (each a "Regular Record Date"). Interest shall accrue on the basis of a 360-day year, consisting of twelve 30-day months. Interest on any Note shall be payable only to the Person in whose name that Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest payment. If any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity Date of the Notes is not a Business Day, then payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day. No interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity Date, as the case may be, to the date payment is made. The place of payment where the principal of and interest on the Notes shall be payable and the Notes may be surrendered for the registration of transfer or exchange shall be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The place where notices or demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served shall be the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The Notes will be redeemable at the option of the Company pursuant to Article III. SECTION 2.02. Form and Dating. The Notes shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A, which is a part of this Indenture. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement required by usage is in a form acceptable to the Company). The Company shall provide any such notations, legends or endorsements to the Trustee in writing. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. (a) Restricted Global Notes. All of the Notes are initially being offered and sold to QIBs in reliance on Rule 144A and shall be issued initially in the form of one or more 9
Restricted Global Notes, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the securities represented thereby with the Trustee, at its Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the Depositary, which shall initially be DTC, and registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co. (or any successor thereto), for the accounts of participants in the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. (b) Global Notes in General. Each Global Note shall represent such of the outstanding Notes as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate Principal Amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate Principal Amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Except as provided in this Section 2.02, or in Sections 2.07 or 2.13 hereof, owners of beneficial interests in Global Notes will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Certificated Notes. Any adjustment of the aggregate Principal Amount of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the Principal Amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.13 hereof and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary, subject in each case to compliance with applicable procedures. (c) Book-Entry Provisions. This Section 2.02(c) shall apply only to Global Notes deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary. The Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section 2.02(c), authenticate and deliver initially one or more Global Notes that (a) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary, (b) shall be delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instructions and (c) shall bear legends substantially to the following effect: "UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS, IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE 10
WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF." (d) Certificated Notes. Notes not issued as interests in the Global Notes will be issued in certificated form substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto. SECTION 2.03. Execution and Authentication. (a) The Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any Officer by manual or facsimile signature. (b) In accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company will execute and upon Company Order, the Trustee will authenticate Exchange Notes and cancel a like principal amount of other Initial Notes. (c) Notes bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of an individual who was at the time of the execution of the Notes the proper Officer of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individual has ceased to hold such office prior to the authentication and delivery of such Notes or did not hold such office at the date of authentication of such Notes. (d) No Note shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Note a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized officer of the Trustee, and such certificate upon any Note shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Note has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. (e) The Notes shall be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations specified in Section 2.01 hereof. (f) The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any securities under this Section if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not be lawfully taken or if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders. SECTION 2.04. Registrar and Paying Agent. (a) The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange for other Notes ("Registrar") and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for purchase or payment ("Paying Agent"). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Notes and of their registration of transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. (b) The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar or co-registrar or Paying Agent (other than the Trustee). The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a 11
Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 7.07. The Company or any Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar. (c) The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar and Paying Agent in connection with the Notes. SECTION 2.05. Paying Agent to Hold Money and Notes in Trust. Except as otherwise provided herein, by no later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on or prior to each due date of payments in respect of any Note, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date). The Company shall require each Paying Agent (other than the Trustee) to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Noteholders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Notes and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such default, the Paying Agent shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money so held in trust. If the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by it. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money. SECTION 2.06. Noteholder Lists. The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Noteholders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall cause to be furnished to the Trustee at least semiannually on March 15 and September 15 a listing of Noteholders dated within 15 days of the date on which the list is furnished and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Noteholders. SECTION 2.07. Transfer and Conversion. Subject to Section 2.13 hereof, (a) upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Note, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Noteholder or such Noteholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the Company designated as Registrar or co-registrar pursuant to Section 2.04, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate Principal Amount. The Company shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company or the Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the registration of transfer or exchange of the Notes from the Noteholder requesting such registration of transfer or exchange. 12
At the option of the Holder, Certificated Notes may be exchanged for other Notes of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate Principal Amount, upon surrender of the Notes to be exchanged, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Noteholder or such Noteholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at such office or agency. Whenever any Notes are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, the Notes which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. (b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, so long as a Global Note remains outstanding and is held by or on behalf of the Depositary, transfers of a Global Note, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.13 and this Section 2.07(b). Transfers of a Global Note shall be limited to transfers of such Global Note in whole, or in part, to nominees of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or such successor's nominee. (c) Successive registrations and registrations of transfers and exchanges as aforesaid may be made from time to time as desired, and each such registration shall be noted on the register for the Notes. (d) Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.04 hereof shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery of the Notes by such Registrar upon registration of transfer or exchange of Notes. (e) No Registrar shall be required to make registrations of transfer or exchange of Notes during any periods designated in the text of the Notes or in this Indenture as periods during which such registration of transfers and exchanges need not be made. SECTION 2.08. Replacement Notes. (a) If a mutilated Note is surrendered to the Registrar or if the Holder of a Note claims that the Note has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Note if the requirements of Section 8-405 of the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York are met and the Holder satisfies any other reasonable requirements of the Trustee. If required by the Trustee or the Company, such Holder shall furnish an affidavit of loss and indemnity bond sufficient in the judgment of the Company and the Trustee to protect the Company, the Trustee, any Agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced, and, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Note has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Note or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Note, a new Note of like tenor and Principal Amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. (b) In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Company pursuant to Article 3 hereof, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Note, pay or purchase such Note, as the case may be. 13
(c) Upon the issuance of any new Note under this Section 2.08, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) in connection therewith. (d) Every new Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.08 in exchange for any mutilated Note, or in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Note, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company and any other obligor upon the Notes, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Note shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Notes duly issued hereunder. (e) The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Notes. SECTION 2.09. Outstanding Notes; Determinations of Holders' Action. (a) Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes authenticated by the Trustee except for those cancelled by it, those paid pursuant to Section 2.08 and delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section 2.09 as not outstanding (the "Outstanding Notes"). A Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate thereof holds the Note; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Principal Amount of Notes have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Notes owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Notes or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Notes which a Trust Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Notes outstanding at the time of such determination. (b) If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.08, the replaced Note ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee and the Company receive proof satisfactory to each of them that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Note is a valid obligation of the Company. (c) If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Stated Maturity, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then immediately after such date such Notes shall cease to be outstanding and interest on such Notes shall cease to accrue whether or not the Note is delivered to the Paying Agent. SECTION 2.10. Temporary Notes. (a) Pending the preparation of definitive Notes, the Company may execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Notes which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Notes in lieu of which they 14
are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Notes may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Notes. (b) If temporary Notes are issued, the Company will cause definitive Notes to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Notes, the temporary Notes shall be exchangeable for definitive Notes upon surrender of the temporary Notes at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.04, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Notes, the Company shall execute and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like Principal Amount of definitive Notes of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Notes shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Notes. SECTION 2.11. Cancellation. All Notes surrendered for payment, purchase by the Company pursuant to Article 3, or registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Notes previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Notes so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Company may not issue new Notes to replace Notes it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation. No Notes shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Notes cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Notes held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedure. SECTION 2.12. Persons Deemed Owners. Prior to due presentment of a Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Note is registered as the owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of the Note and interest thereon, and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. SECTION 2.13. Legend; Additional Transfer and Exchange Requirements. (a) If Notes are issued upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes subject to restrictions on transfer and bearing the legends set forth in Section 2.13(g) (collectively, the "Legend"), or if a request is made to remove the Legend on a Note, the Notes so issued shall bear the Legend, or the Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company and the Registrar such satisfactory evidence, which shall include an Opinion of Counsel, as may be reasonably required by the Company and the Registrar, that neither the Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the Securities Act or that such Notes are not "restricted" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the 15
Securities Act; provided that no such evidence need be supplied in connection with the sale of such Note pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale. Upon (1) provision of such satisfactory evidence if requested, or (2) notification by the Company to the Trustee and Registrar of the sale of such Note pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale, the Trustee, upon Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver a Note that does not bear the Legend. If the Legend is removed from the face of a Note and the Note is subsequently held by an Affiliate of the Company, the Legend shall be reinstated. (b) Subject to Sections 2.13(c)(i) and 2.13(f) and in compliance with Section 2.13(d), every Note shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in the Legend. Whenever any Restricted Note other than a Restricted Global Note is presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or in exchange for a Note registered in a name other than that of the Holder, such Note must be accompanied by a certificate, dated the date of such surrender and signed by the Holder of such Note, as to compliance with such restrictions on transfer. The Registrar shall not be required to accept for such registration of transfer or exchange any Note not so accompanied by a properly completed certificate. (c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Notes, (A) transfers of a Global Note, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.07 and Section 2.13(c)(i), (B) transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Note for a Certificated Note shall comply with Section 2.07 and Section 2.13(c)(ii) below, and (C) transfers of a Certificated Note shall comply with Section 2.07 and Section 2.13(c)(iii) and (iv) below. (i) Transfer of Global Note. A Global Note may not be transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee or any successor thereof, and no such transfer to any such other Person may be registered; provided that this clause (i) shall not prohibit any transfer of a Note that is issued in exchange for a Global Note but is not itself a Global Note. No transfer of a Note to any Person shall be effective under this Indenture or the Notes unless and until such Note has been registered in the name of such Person. Nothing in this Section 2.13(c)(i) shall prohibit or render ineffective any transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Note effected in accordance with the other provisions of this Section 2.13(c). (ii) Restrictions on Transfer of a Beneficial Interest in a Global Note for a Certificated Note. A beneficial interest in a Global Note may not be exchanged for a Certificated Note except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below. Upon receipt by the Trustee of a request for transfer of a beneficial interest in a Global Note in accordance with applicable procedures for a Certificated Note in the form satisfactory to the Trustee, including any information necessary to ensure compliance with the Securities Act, together with written instructions to the Trustee to make, or direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Note to reflect a decrease in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes represented by the Global Note, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary account to be credited with such decrease, then the Trustee shall cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and 16
procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate Principal Amount of Notes represented by the Global Note to be decreased by the aggregate Principal Amount of the Certificated Note to be issued, shall authenticate and deliver such Certificated Note and shall debit or cause to be debited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Note equal to the Principal Amount of the Certificated Note so issued. (iii) Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Notes. When Certificated Notes are presented to the Registrar with a request: (x) to register the transfer of such Certificated Notes; or (y) to exchange such Certificated Notes for an equal Principal Amount of Certificated Notes of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its reasonable requirements for such transaction are met, including any information necessary to ensure compliance with the Securities Act; provided, however, that the Certificated Notes surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing. (iv) Restrictions on Transfer of a Certificated Note for a Beneficial Interest in a Global Note. A Certificated Note may not be exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Global Note except upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth below. Upon receipt by the Trustee of a Certificated Note, duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, together with written instructions directing the Trustee to make, or to direct the Registrar to make, an adjustment on its books and records with respect to such Global Note to reflect an increase in the aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes represented by the Global Note, such instructions to contain information regarding the Depositary account to be credited with such increase, then the Trustee shall cancel such Certificated Note and cause, or direct the Registrar to cause, in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar, the aggregate Principal Amount of Notes represented by the Global Note to be increased by the aggregate Principal Amount of the Certificated Note to be exchanged, and shall credit or cause to be credited to the account of the Person specified in such instructions a beneficial interest in the Global Note equal to the Principal Amount of the Certificated Note so cancelled. If no Global Notes are then outstanding, the Company shall issue and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order shall authenticate a new Global Note in the appropriate Principal Amount. (d) The restrictions imposed by the Legend upon the transferability of any Note shall cease and terminate when such Note has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the 17
Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or, if earlier, upon the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision). Any Note as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or shall have terminated may, upon a surrender of such Note for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.13 (accompanied, in the event that such restrictions on transfer have terminated by reason of a transfer in compliance with Rule 144 or any successor provision, by an Opinion of Counsel reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Registrar and addressed to the Company and the Registrar, to the effect that the transfer of such Note has been made in compliance with Rule 144 or such successor provision), be exchanged for a new Note, of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, which shall not bear the restrictive Legend. The Company shall inform the Trustee of the effective date of any registration statement registering the offer and sale of the Notes under the Securities Act. The Trustee or the Registrar shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the aforementioned Opinion of Counsel or registration statement. As used in Sections 2.13(b) and (d), the term "transfer" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer, hypothecation or other disposition of any Note. (e) The provisions of clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) below shall apply only to Global Notes: (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Notes, except as provided in Section 2.13(c)(ii), a Global Note shall not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Note registered in the name of any Person other than the Depositary or one or more nominees thereof, provided that a Global Note may be exchanged for Notes registered in the names of any person designated by the Depositary in the event that (i) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Note or such Depositary has ceased to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, (ii) the Company decides to discontinue use of the system of book-entry transfer through DTC (or any successor depositary); or (iii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Notes. Any Global Note exchanged pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part, and any Global Note exchanged pursuant to clause (iii) above may be exchanged in whole or from time to time in part as directed by the Depositary. Any Note issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof shall be a Global Note; provided that any such Note so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Note. (2) Notes issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, shall have an aggregate Principal Amount equal to that of such Global Note or portion thereof to be so exchanged, shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and shall bear the applicable legends provided for herein. Any Global Note to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Trustee, as Registrar. With regard to any Global Note to be exchanged in part, either 18
such Global Note shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Trustee is acting as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Note, the Principal Amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Note issuable on such exchange to or upon the order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof. (3) Subject to the provisions of clause (5) below, the registered Holder may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members (as defined below) and persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes. (4) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in clause (1) above, the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Certificated Notes in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons. (5) Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary (collectively, the "Agent Members") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Note, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Note. (f) Registered Exchange Offer. Upon the occurrence of the Registered Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 2.03, the Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable letters of transmittal that (x) they are not broker-dealers, (y) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (z) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Registered Exchange Offer and (ii) Unrestricted Certificated Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Certificated Notes accepted for exchange in the Registered Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Certificated Notes so accepted Unrestricted Certificated Notes in the appropriate principal amount. 19
(g) Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), any certificate representing any Note shall bear a legend in substantially the following form, unless (i) such Certificated Note or Global Note has been issued pursuant to Section 2.13(f) hereto, or (ii) such Note has been sold pursuant to a registration statement that has been declared effective under the Securities Act (and which continues to be effective at the time of such transfer) or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto), or unless otherwise agreed by the Company in writing with written notice thereof to the transfer agent: THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITIES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND (2) AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH NOTE PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SECURITY) (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION DATE") ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A NON-U.S. PERSON IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT (IF AVAILABLE), (D) TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE COMPANY'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE AND THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATES AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY. 20
Any such Note as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or as to which the conditions for removal of the foregoing legend set forth therein have been satisfied may, upon surrender of the certificates representing such Note for exchange in accordance with the procedures of the transfer agent, be exchanged for a new certificate or certificates for a like amount of Notes, which shall not bear the restrictive legend required by this section. SECTION 2.14. CUSIP Numbers. The Company in issuing the Notes may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP numbers. SECTION 2.15. Additional Notes. The Company may, from time to time, subject to compliance with any other applicable provisions of this Indenture, without the consent of the Holders, create and issue pursuant to this Indenture Additional Notes having terms and conditions identical to those of the Initial Notes, except that Additional Notes: (i) may have a different issue date from the Initial Notes; (ii) may accrue interest from the date of issue of such Additional Notes, which may result in a different amount of interest payable on the first interest payment date than is payable on the Initial Notes; (iii) may have terms specified in the Additional Note Board Resolution or Additional Note Supplemental Indenture for such Additional Notes making appropriate adjustments applicable to such Additional Notes in order to conform to and ensure compliance with the Securities Act (or other applicable securities laws) and any registration rights or similar agreement applicable to such Additional Notes, which are not adverse in any material respect to the Holder of any Initial Notes; and (iv) may be entitled to additional interest as contemplated in Section 2.16 not applicable to Initial Notes and may not be entitled to such additional interest applicable to Initial Notes. SECTION 2.16. Additional Interest Under Registration Rights Agreements. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be obligated to pay Additional Interest to Holders, all as and to the extent set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement or any registration rights agreement applicable to Additional Notes. The terms thereof are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Additional Interest, if required to be paid, is deemed to be interest for purposes of this Indenture. 21
ARTICLE 3 REDEMPTION SECTION 3.01. Optional Redemption. The Notes shall not be redeemable at the option of any Holder thereof, whether upon the occurrence of any particular circumstances or otherwise. The Notes will be redeemable, as a whole or in part, at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (b) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments on such Notes discounted to the Redemption Date, on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points. Accrued and unpaid interest will be paid to the Redemption Date. SECTION 3.02. Notice to Trustee. If the Company elects to redeem Notes pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of Section 3.01, it shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Date and the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed. SECTION 3.03. Selection of Notes to be Redeemed. If less than all the Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed in any manner that the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee shall make the selection from Notes outstanding not previously called for redemption. The Trustee may select for redemption portions of the principal of Notes that have denominations larger than $2,000. Notes and portions of them it selects shall be in amounts of $2,000 or whole multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. SECTION 3.04. Notice of Redemption. At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption by first-class mail to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed (and provide a copy of such notice to the Trustee). The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed and shall state: (a) the Redemption Date; (b) the redemption price; (c) if any Note is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount of such Note to be redeemed and that after the Redemption Date upon surrender of such Note a new Note or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion will be issued upon cancellation of the original Notes; (d) the name and address of the Paying Agent; (e) that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price; and 22
(f) that interest on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the Redemption Date. At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense, provided that the Company makes such request at least two Business Days (or such shorter time as is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee) prior to the date by which such notice of redemption must be given to Holders in accordance with this Section 3.4 and provides the Trustee with all information required for such notice of redemption. SECTION 3.05. Effect of Notice of Redemption. Once notice of redemption is mailed as provided in Section 3.04, Notes called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the redemption price. A notice of redemption may not be conditional. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Notes shall be paid at the redemption price plus accrued interest to the Redemption Rate. SECTION 3.06. Deposit of Redemption Price. On or before the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption price of and accrued interest, if any, on all Notes to be redeemed on that date. If the Company complies with the provisions of this Section, on and after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Note or the portions of the Notes called for redemption. SECTION 3.07. Notes Redeemed in Part. Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder a new Note and the same maturity equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Note surrendered. ARTICLE 4 COVENANTS SECTION 4.01. Payment of Notes. The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of, premium, if any and interest, on the Notes in accordance with the terms of the Notes and this Indenture. All payments in respect of the Notes represented by a Global Note (including the payment of the principal of, premium, if any and interest) shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holder of the Global Notes. SECTION 4.02. SEC Reports. The Company shall file with the Trustee, within 15 days after it files such annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports with the SEC, copies of its annual report and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The Company also shall comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a). SECTION 4.03. Compliance Certificate. The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning with the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006) an Officers' Certificate, one of the signatures of which shall be that of the Company's principal executive, financial or accounting officer, stating 23
whether or not such officers know of any Default that occurred during such period. If they do, such Officers' Certificate shall describe the Default and its status. SECTION 4.04. Further Instruments and Acts. Upon request of the Trustee, the Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture. SECTION 4.05. Limitations on Liens. The Company shall not create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon Restricted Property to secure any debt of the Company, any Subsidiary or any other Person, or permit any Subsidiary so to do, without making effective provision whereby the Notes then outstanding and having the benefit of this Section shall be secured by the Lien equally and ratably with such debt for so long as such debt shall be so secured, except that the foregoing shall not prevent the Company or any Subsidiary from creating, assuming or suffering to exist Liens of the following character: (1) any Lien existing on the date hereof; (2) any Lien existing on property owned or leased by a corporation at the time it becomes a Subsidiary; (3) any Lien existing on property at the time of the acquisition thereof by the Company or a Subsidiary; (4) any Lien to secure any debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the acquisition of Restricted Property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof and any Lien to the extent that it secures debt which is in excess of such purchase price and for the payment of which recourse may be had only against such Restricted Property; (5) any Lien to secure any debt incurred prior to, at the time of, or within 12 months after the completion of the construction and commencement of commercial operation, alteration, repair or improvement of Restricted Property for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost thereof and any Lien to the extent that it secures debt which is in excess of such cost and for the payment of which recourse may be had only against such Restricted Property; (6) any Lien securing debt of a Subsidiary owing to the Company or to another Subsidiary; (7) any Lien in favor of the United States of America or any state thereof or any other country, or any agency, instrumentality or political subdivision or any of the foregoing, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments or performance pursuant to the provisions of any contract or statute, or any Liens securing industrial development, pollution control, or similar revenue bonds; (8) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in clauses (1) through (7) above, so long as the principal amount of the debt secured thereby does not exceed the principal 24
amount of debt so secured at the time of the extension, renewal or replacement (except that, where an additional principal amount of debt is incurred to provide funds for the completion of a specific project, the additional principal amount, and any related financing costs, may be secured by the Lien as well) and the Lien is limited to the same property subject to the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on the property); and (9) any Lien not permitted by clauses (1) through (8) above securing debt which, together with the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all other debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries owning Restricted Property which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions and the aggregate Value of existing Sale and Leaseback Transactions which would be subject to the restrictions of Section 4.06 but for this clause (9), does not at any time exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets. SECTION 4.06. Limitation on Sale and Leasebacks. The Company shall not enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, nor permit any Subsidiary owning Restricted Property so to do, unless either: (1) the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur debt, in a principal amount at least equal to the Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, which is secured by Liens on the property to be leased (without equally and ratably securing the outstanding Notes having the benefit of Section 4.05) because such Liens would be of such character that no violation of any of the provisions of Section 4.05 would result, or (2) the Company during the six months immediately following the effective date of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction causes to be applied to (A) the acquisition of Restricted Property or (B) the voluntary retirement of Funded Debt (whether by redemption, defeasance, repurchase, or otherwise) an amount equal to the lesser of (i) the net proceeds of the sale of the Restricted Property leased pursuant to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction or the fair value of the Restricted Property so leased (whichever amount is greater) or (ii) the Value of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction. SECTION 4.07. Corporate Existence. Subject to Article 5, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders. SECTION 4.08. Maintenance of Properties. The Company will cause all properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance or both of any of such properties if such 25
discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary and not adverse in any material respect to the Holders. SECTION 4.09. Payment of Taxes and Other Claims. The Company will or will cause a Subsidiary to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (a) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (b) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or if the Company shall determine that the payment thereof is not desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any subsidiary and that the nonpayment thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Holders. SECTION 4.10. Waiver of Covenants. The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in Sections 4.05 through 4.10 with respect to the Notes if before or after the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) shall either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect. ARTICLE 5 SUCCESSOR CORPORATION SECTION 5.01. When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets. The Company shall not consolidate with or merge with or into any other person or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any person, unless: (a) Either (1) the Company shall be the continuing corporation or (2) the person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the person which acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety (i) shall be a corporation organized and validly existing under the laws of (x) the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, (y) any member country of the European Union, or (z) any other country if the organization and existence of the person formed by such consolidation in such country not impair the rights of Holders, and (ii) shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company under the Notes and this Indenture; and (b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing. 26
For purposes of the foregoing, the transfer (by lease, assignment, sale or otherwise) of the properties and assets of one or more Subsidiaries of the Company (other than to the Company or another Subsidiary of the Company), which, if such assets were owned by the Company, would constitute all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company, shall be deemed to be the transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company. SECTION 5.02. Successor Corporation Substituted. Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in accordance with Section 5.01, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into or with which the Company is merged or to which such sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for (so that from and after the date of such sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition, the provisions of this Indenture referring to the "Company" shall instead refer to the successor company and not the Company), and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor person has been named as the Company herein; provided, however, that the predecessor Company in the case of a sale, conveyance or other disposition (other than a lease) shall be released from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Notes. ARTICLE 6 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES SECTION 6.01. Events of Default. An "Event of Default" occurs, with respect to the Notes, if: (1) the Company defaults in (a) the payment of the principal of any Note at its Maturity or (b) the payment of any interest upon any Note when the same becomes due and payable and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; (2) the Company fails to comply with any of its agreements in the Notes or this Indenture (other than those referred to in clause (1) above and other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section 6.01 specifically dealt with) and such failure continues for 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default; (3) a decree or order by a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall have been entered adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization of the company under any Bankruptcy Law, and such decree or order shall have continued undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; or a decree or order of a court having jurisdiction in the premises for the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company or of its property, or for the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs, shall have been entered, and such decree or order shall have remained in force undischarged and unstayed for a period of 60 days; 27
(4) the Company shall institute proceedings to be adjudicated a voluntary bankrupt, or shall consent to the filing of a bankruptcy proceeding against it, or shall file a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization under any Bankruptcy Law, or shall consent to the filing of any such petition, or shall consent to the appointment of a receiver or liquidator or trustee or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency of it or of its property or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; and (5) if any event of default as defined in any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any Subsidiary for borrowed money with a principal amount in excess of $75,000,000 (other than nonrecourse obligations), whether such indebtedness now exists or shall hereafter be created, shall occur and shall result in an amount of such indebtedness in excess of $75,000,000 becoming or being declared due and payable prior to the date on which it would otherwise become due and payable, and such acceleration shall not be rescinded or annulled, or such indebtedness shall not have been discharged, within a period of 30 days after there shall have been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any), a written notice specifying such event of default and requiring the Company to cause such acceleration to be rescinded or annulled or to cause such indebtedness to be discharged and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Defaults" hereunder. If any event of default or acceleration referred to in this Section 6.01(5) shall cease or be cured, waived, rescinded or annulled, then the Event of Default by reason thereof shall be deemed not to have occurred. A Default under clause (2) above is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) notify the Company and the Trustee, of the Default and the Company does not cure such Default within the time specified in clause (2) above after receipt of such notice. Any such notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "Notice of Default." SECTION 6.02. Acceleration. If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(3) or (4)) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any), by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the Principal Amount of the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such Principal (or portion thereof) shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(3) or (4) occurs and is continuing, the Principal (or portion thereof) on all the Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Noteholders. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Noteholder) may rescind such acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree; and all existing Events of Default with respect to the Notes, have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the Principal (or portion thereof) of Notes that has become due 28
solely as a result of such acceleration and if all amounts due to the Trustee under Section 7.07 have been paid. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto. SECTION 6.03. Other Remedies. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to (a) collect the payment of the whole amount then due and payable on the Notes for Principal and interest, with interest upon the overdue Principal and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, upon overdue installments of interest from the date such interest was due, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Notes and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 or (b) enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture. The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if the Trustee does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of the Notes in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in, the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative. SECTION 6.04. Waiver of Past Defaults. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any), by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Holder), may on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes waive an existing Default and its consequences except (1) an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(1) or (2) a Default in respect of a provision that under Section 9.02 cannot be amended without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Note. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right. SECTION 6.05. Control by Majority. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Notes. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or that the Trustee determines in good faith is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holder or would involve the Trustee in personal liability. SECTION 6.06. Limitation on Suits. A Holder of any Note may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Note unless: (1) the Holder gives to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default with respect to the Notes is continuing; (2) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy; (3) such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against any loss, liability or expense satisfactory to the Trustee; 29
(4) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the notice, the request and the offer of security or indemnity; and (5) the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the outstanding Notes do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with such request during such 60-day period. A Holder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Holder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Holder. SECTION 6.07. Rights of Holders to Receive Payment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right, which is absolute and unconditional, of any Holder of any Note to receive payment of the Principal of and interest on such Note on the Stated Maturity or Maturities (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Notes or any Redemption Date, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected adversely without the consent of each such Holder. SECTION 6.08. Collection Suit by Trustee. If an Event of Default described in Section 6.01(1) with respect to Notes occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount owing with respect to such Notes and the amounts provided for in Section 7.07. SECTION 6.09. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Notes or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the Principal of the Notes shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue Principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of Principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Notes and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel and any other amount due the Trustee under Section 7.07) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and (b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any Custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07. 30
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder of any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding. SECTION 6.10. Priorities. If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 6, it shall pay out the money in the following order and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of Principal or interest, upon presentation of the Notes and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid: FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07; SECOND: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid for the Principal and interest on the Notes in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Notes for Principal and interest; and THIRD: the balance, if any, to the Company. The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Noteholders pursuant to this Section 6.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Company shall mail to each Noteholder and the Trustee a notice that states the record date, the payment date and amount to be paid. SECTION 6.11. Undertaking for Costs. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.07 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any), or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the Principal of or interest on any Note on or after the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Note (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date). SECTION 6.12. Waiver of Stay; Extension or Usury Laws. The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted. 31
ARTICLE 7 TRUSTEE SECTION 7.01. Duties of Trustee. (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs. (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default: (1) the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and (2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions, which pursuant to this Indenture are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture. (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that: (1) this paragraph (c) does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 7.01; (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Trust Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05. (d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of this Section 7.01. (e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power or extend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. 32
(f) Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall not be liable for any interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may otherwise agree with the Company. SECTION 7.02. Rights of Trustee. (a) The Trustee may rely on any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document. (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. (c) The Trustee may act through agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care. (d) Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01(c), the Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers. SECTION 7.03. Individual Rights of Trustee etc. The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-registrar or any other agent of the Company may do the same with like rights. However the Trustee must comply with Sections 7.10 and 7.11. SECTION 7.04. Trustee's Disclaimer. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Notes and, shall not be responsible for any statement in the registration statement for the Notes under the Securities Act, or in the Indenture or the Notes (other than its certificate of authentication) or for the determination as to which beneficial owners are entitled to receive any notices hereunder. SECTION 7.05. Notice of Defaults. If a Default with respect to the Notes occurs and is continuing and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Holder notice of such Default in the manner set forth in TIA Section 315(b) within 90 days after it occurs. Except in the case of a Default described in Section 6.01(1) with respect to any Note, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Trust Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders. SECTION 7.06. Reports by Trustee to Holders. Within 60 days after each May 15 beginning with the May 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of such May 15 that complies with TIA Section 313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b) and (c). 33
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be filed with the SEC and each stock exchange on which the Notes may be listed. The Company agrees to notify the Trustee whenever the Notes become listed on any stock exchange. SECTION 7.07. Compensation and Indemnity. The Company agrees: (a) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (b) to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses, advances and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and (c) to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay the Principal of or interest on any Note. The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this Section 7.07 shall survive the discharge of this Indenture. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in Section 6.01(3) or (4), the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law. SECTION 7.08. Replacement of Trustee. The Trustee may resign by so notifying the Company; provided, however, no such resignation shall be effective until a successor Trustee has accepted its appointment pursuant to this Section 7.08. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and may appoint a successor Trustee. The Company shall remove the Trustee if: (1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10; (2) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent; (3) a receiver or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or (4) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting. 34
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint, by resolution of its Board of Directors, a successor Trustee. Every successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 7.07. If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee. If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder of a Note may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of such Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee. SECTION 7.09. Successor Trustee by Merger. If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee. SECTION 7.10. Eligibility; Disqualification. The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Section 310(a)(1), (2) and (5). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 310(b), including the optional provision permitted by the second sentence of TIA Section 310(b)(9). In determining whether the Trustee has conflicting interests as defined in TIA Section 310(b)(1), the provisions contained in the proviso to TIA Section 310(b)(1) shall be deemed incorporated herein. SECTION 7.11. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company. The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein. ARTICLE 8 DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE SECTION 8.01. Discharge of Liability on Notes. When (a) the Company delivers to the Trustee all Outstanding Notes authenticated and delivered (other than Notes that have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid) for cancellation, or (b) all Outstanding Notes have become due and payable and the Company deposits with the Trustee cash sufficient to pay at Stated Maturity the Principal Amount of all Principal of and interest on Outstanding Notes, and if in either case the Company pays all other sums payable hereunder by 35
the Company, then this Indenture shall, subject to Section 7.07, cease to be of further effect as to all Outstanding Notes. The Trustee shall join in the execution of a document prepared by the Company acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Company. SECTION 8.02. Repayment to the Company. The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company on Company Request any money held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Notes that remains unclaimed for two years; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such return, may at the expense and direction of the Company cause to be published once in an Authorized Newspaper or mail to each such Holder notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication or mailing, any unclaimed money then remaining will be returned to the Company. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person. ARTICLE 9 SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES SECTION 9.01. Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Holders. Without the consent of any Holders, the Company and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes: (1) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Notes; or (2) to add to the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company for the benefit of the Holders or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or (3) to provide for the issuance of the Exchange Notes as permitted by this Indenture, which will have terms substantially identical to the other Outstanding Notes except for the requirement of a Private Placement Legend and related transfer restrictions under the Securities Act and this Indenture and as to the applicability of additional interest payable as provided in Section 2.13, and which will be treated, together with any other Outstanding Notes, as a single issue of securities; or (4) to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes as permitted by this Indenture; or (5) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes; or (6) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; or 36
(7) to secure the Notes; or (8) to make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Noteholder; or (9) to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA. SECTION 9.02. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders. With the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any), the Company and the Trustee may amend this Indenture or the Notes or may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders; provided, however, that no such amendment or supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of each Holder of Outstanding Notes: (1) change the Stated Maturity of the Principal of, or any installment of Principal or interest on, the Notes, or reduce the Principal Amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date); (2) reduce the percentage in Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any) the consent of whose Holders is required for any such amendment or supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) with respect to the Notes; (3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 6.04 or 6.07, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Note affected thereby. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment or supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After an amendment or supplemental Indenture under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing the amendment. SECTION 9.03. Compliance with Trust Indenture Act. Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA as then in effect. SECTION 9.04. Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions. Until an amendment or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it or any other action by a Holder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Note or portion of that Note that evidences the same obligation as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the 37
consent, waiver or action is not made on the Note. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent, waiver or action as to such Holder's Note or portion of the Note if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the Company or an agent of the Company certifies to the Trustee that the consent of the requisite aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes has been obtained. After an amendment, waiver or action becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder. The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to consent to any amendment or waiver with respect to the Notes. If a record date is fixed, then notwithstanding the first two sentences of the immediately preceding paragraph, those persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those persons, shall be entitled to revoke any consent previously given, whether or not such persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 90 days after such record date. SECTION 9.05. Notation on or Exchange of Notes. Notes authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Notes so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Notes. SECTION 9.06. Trustee to Sign Supplemental, Indentures. The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article 9 if the amendment does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign it. In signing such amendment the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. SECTION 9.07. Effect of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby. ARTICLE 10 SINKING FUNDS SECTION 10.01. No Sinking Funds. The Notes shall not be entitled to the benefits of a sinking fund. ARTICLE 11 MISCELLANEOUS 38
SECTION 11.01. Trust Indenture Act Controls. If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control. SECTION 11.02. Notices. Any notice or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: if to the Company: Allergan, Inc. 2525 Dupont Drive Irvine, CA 92715-1599 Attention: _________________ if to the Trustee: Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 707 Wilshire Blvd, 17th Floor Los Angeles, CA 90071 Attn: Maddy Hall, Corporate Trust Services Fax Number 213-614-3355 All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) will be deemed to have been given: (i) at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered and (ii) five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed. The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. Any notice or communication given to a Holder shall be mailed to such Holder at the Holder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee. If the Company mails a notice or communication to the Holders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and the Agents. 39
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication. SECTION 11.03. Communication by Holders with Other Holders. Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company and the Trustee, the Registrar or the Paying Agent, and anyone else, shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c). SECTION 11.04. Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent. Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee: (1) an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and (2) an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with. SECTION 11.05. Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion. Each Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include: (1) a statement that each person making such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, such covenant or condition has been complied with. SECTION 11.06. Separability Clause. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. SECTION 11.07. Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar. The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Holders. The Agents may make reasonable rules for their functions. SECTION 11.08. Legal Holidays. A "Legal Holiday" is any day other than a Business Day. If any specified date (including an Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or 40
Stated Maturity of any Note, or a date for giving notice) is a Legal Holiday, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Notes other than a provision which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section) payment of interest or Principal need not be made, or such other action need not be taken, on such date, but the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity or such other date and to the extent applicable no interest, if any, shall accrue for the intervening period. SECTION 11.09. GOVERNING LAW. THIS INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AS APPLIED TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED WITHIN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW. SECTION 11.10. No Recourse Against Others. A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes. SECTION 11.11. Successors. All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor. SECTION 11.12. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. SECTION 11.13. Benefits of Indenture. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Notes, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefits or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture. SECTION 11.14. Multiple Originals. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture. ALLERGAN, INC. By: /s/ Jeffrey L. Edwards ------------------------------------ Name: Jeffrey L. Edwards ---------------------------------- Title:Executive Vice President, --------------------------------- Finance and Business Development, --------------------------------- Chief Financial Officer --------------------------------- 41
Attest: /s/ Matthew J. Maletta -------------------------------- Name: Matthew J. Maletta ---------------------------------- Title: Vice President, Assistant General --------------------------------- Counsel and Assistant Secretary --------------------------------- TRUSTEE By: WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION Name: /s/ Maddy Hall --------------------------- Title: Assistant Vice President --------------------------- Attest: /s/ Scott C. Emmons ------------------------- Name: Scott C. Emmons ------------------------- Title: Vice President ------------------------- 42
CGSH Draft of April 10, 2006 EXHIBIT A FORM OF NOTE [Insert Global Notes Legend, if applicable to the provisions of the Indenture] [Insert Private Placement Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture] ALLERGAN INC. 5.75% SENIOR NOTE DUE 2016 No. _________________ CUSIP: ___________________ Issue Date: ___________________ Principal Amount: ___________________ ALLERGAN INC., a Delaware Corporation, promises to pay to _________________ or registered assigns, the Principal Amount of __________ ($___) on April 1, 2016. This Note shall bear cash interest at the rate of 5.75% per annum. Interest Payment Dates: April 1 and October 1 Record Dates: March 15 and September 15 Additional provisions of this Security are set forth on the other side of this Security. Dated: ------------------------------ ALLERGAN, INC. By: ------------------------------------ Name: ---------------------------------- Title: --------------------------------- TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as Trustee, certifies that this is one of the Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. By: --------------------------------- Authorized Officer A-1
[FORM OF REVERSE SIDE OF SECURITY] 5.75% SENIOR NOTE DUE 2016 1. INTEREST This Note shall bear cash interest at the rate of 5.75% per annum. Interest on this Note shall accrue from _______________, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for. Interest on this Note shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest plus, to the extent permitted by law, any interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are the registered Holders of the Notes on a subsequent special record date. The Company shall fix the record date and the payment date. At least 30 days before the record date, the Company shall mail to the Trustee and to each Holder a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount of interest to be paid. The Company may pay defaulted interest in any other lawful manner. If any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity Date of any of the Notes is not a Business Day, then payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day. No interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity Date, as the case may be, to the date payment is made. Under certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay Additional Interest as provided in the Indenture. 2. METHOD OF PAYMENT Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will make payments at Maturity to Holders who surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Notes. The Company will pay any cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. All payments in respect of the Notes represented by a Global Note (including the payment of the principal of, premium, if any and interest) shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the accounts specified by the Holder of the Global Notes. 3. PAYING AGENT AND REGISTRAR Initially, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, a national banking association (the "Trustee"), will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent or Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent or Registrar or co-registrar. The Company may maintain deposit accounts and conduct other banking transactions with the Trustee in the normal course of business. A-2
4. INDENTURE The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as in effect from time to time (the "TIA"). Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Noteholders are referred to the Indenture for a statement of those terms. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company of which $800,000,000 in aggregate principal amount will be initially issued. Subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture and without the consent of the Holders, the Company may issue Additional Notes. All Notes will be treated as a single class of Notes under the Indenture. The Indenture imposes certain limitations on, among other things, the ability of the Company to: incur Liens, enter into Sale and Leaseback Transactions, or consolidate or merge or transfer or convey all or substantially all of the Company's assets. 5. OPTIONAL REDEMPTION BY THE COMPANY The Notes are subject to redemption as a whole or in part, at the option of the Company prior to the Maturity Date as provided in the Indenture. 6. DENOMINATIONS; TRANSFER; EXCHANGE The Notes are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $2,000 of Principal Amount and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. 7. PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes. 8. AMENDMENT; WAIVER Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Notes may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding and (ii) certain Defaults may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Notes at the time outstanding. Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, without the consent of any Noteholder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Notes (i) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company in the Indenture and in the Notes; (ii) to add to the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company for the benefit of the Holders or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; (iii) to provide for the issuance of the Exchange Notes as permitted by the Indenture; (iv) to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes as permitted by the Indenture; (v) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of A-3
appointment by a successor Trustee with respect to the Notes; (vi) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; (vii) to secure the Notes; (viii) to make any other change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Noteholder; or (ix) to comply with the requirements of the SEC in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA. 9. DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes (including Additional Notes, if any), by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the Principal Amount of the Notes to be immediately due and payable. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default which will result in Notes being due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default. Noteholders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate Principal Amount of the Outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing Default (except a Default in payment of Principal and Interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests. 10. TRUSTEE DEALINGS WITH THE COMPANY Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. 11. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. The waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issue of the Notes. 12. AUTHENTICATION This Note shall not be valid until an authorized officer of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Note. 13. GOVERNING LAW THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS NOTE. A-4
The Company will furnish to any Noteholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture which has in it the text of this Note in larger type. Requests may be made to: Allergan Inc. 2525 Dupont Drive Irvine, California 92612 Telephone No.: 949-246-4500 Facsimile No.: 714-246-4774 Attention: Matthew J. Maletta, Esq. A-5
ASSIGNMENT FORM FOR, VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned registered holder hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL NOTE OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE _____________________________________ _____________________________________ __________________________________________________________ PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS OF ASSIGNEE __________________________________________________________ the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing ________________________________________________________ Attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the Company with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: ------------------------------ Notice: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as it appears upon the face of the Note in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. ---------------------------------------- Signature must be guaranteed by a Signature of Signature Guarantor participant in a recognized signature guaranty medallion program or other signature guarantor acceptable to the Trustee A-6
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: TEN COM--as tenants in common UNIF GIFT MIN ACT-- _______ Custodian _______ TEN ENT--as tenants by the entireties (Cust) (Minor) JT TEN--as joint tenants with right of Under Uniform Gifts to Minors survivorship and not as Act ________________________ tenants in common (State) Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. A-7
SCHEDULE OF EXCHANGES OF INTERESTS IN THE GLOBAL NOTE The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Certificated Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Certificated Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made: A-8

Exhibit 4.3 ALLERGAN, INC. 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT New York, New York April 12, 2006 Banc of America Securities LLC Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated As Representatives of the Initial Purchasers c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013 Ladies and Gentlemen: Allergan, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to certain purchasers (the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, its 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 (the "Notes"), upon the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement between the Company and the Initial Purchasers dated April 6, 2006 (the "Purchase Agreement") relating to the initial placement (the "Initial Placement") of the Notes. The Notes will be convertible into Shares (as defined herein), on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture (as defined herein). To induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and to satisfy a condition to your obligations thereunder, the Company agrees with you for your benefit and the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Securities (including the Initial Purchasers) (each a "Holder" and, collectively, the "Holders"), as follows: 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings: "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Affiliate" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 405 under the Act and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have meanings correlative thereto. "Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date" shall mean the date that is 45 days after the date such post-effective amendment is required by Section 2(h)(i) to be filed. "Broker-Dealer" shall mean any broker or dealer registered as such under the Exchange Act.
"Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City. "Closing Date" shall mean the date of first issuance of the Notes. "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share, as it exists on the date of the Indenture and any other shares of capital stock or other securities of the Company into which such Common Stock may be reclassified or changed, together with any and all other securities which may from time to time be issuable upon conversion of Notes. "Conversion Rate" shall have the meaning indicated in the Indenture. "Deferral Notice" shall have the meaning indicated in Section 3(c)(x)(B) hereof. "Deferral Period" shall have the meaning indicated in Section 3(c)(x)(B) hereof. "Effectiveness Date" shall mean the date of effectiveness or availability of the Shelf Registration Statement. "Effectiveness Target Date" shall mean no later than 180 days after the date hereof. "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Final Memorandum" shall mean the offering memorandum, dated April 6, 2006, relating to the Notes, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein as of such date. "Holder" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Indenture" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities, dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof. "Initial Placement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Initial Purchaser" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" shall mean an issuer free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 433 under the Act. "Losses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 2
"Majority Holders" shall mean, on any date, Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Securities registered under a Registration Statement, provided that Holders of Shares issued upon conversion of Notes shall not be deemed Holders of Shares, but shall be deemed Holders of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes from which such Shares were converted. "NASD Rules" shall mean the Conduct Rules and the By-Laws of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. "Notes" shall have the meaning indicated in the preamble hereto. "Notice and Questionnaire" shall mean a written notice delivered to the Company substantially in the form attached as Annex A to the Final Memorandum. "Notice Holder" shall mean, on any date, any Holder of Registrable Securities that has delivered a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company on or prior to such date. "Prospectus" shall mean a prospectus included in the Shelf Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, and all amendments and supplements thereto, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein. "Purchase Agreement" shall have the meaning indicated in the preamble hereto. "Registrable Securities" shall mean each Note (each a "Registrable Note") and each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Notes other than those that have been (A) registered under a Registration Statement and disposed of in accordance therewith or (B) distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Act or any successor rule or regulation thereto that may be adopted by the Commission. "Registration Default Damages" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8 hereof. "Securities" shall mean, collectively, the Notes and the Shares. "Shares" means the shares of Common Stock into which the Notes are convertible or that have been issued upon any conversion from Notes into Common Stock. "Shelf Filing Deadline" shall mean 120 days after the Closing Date. "Shelf Registration Period" from the date the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective until the date that the Notes and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon exchange thereof have ceased to be Registrable Securities. 3
"Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 hereof which covers some or all of the Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein. "Trustee" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture. "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. 2. Shelf Registration. (a) The Company shall as promptly as practicable (but in no event after the Shelf Filing Deadline) cause to be filed, or otherwise designate an existing filing with the Commission as a Shelf Registration Statement, providing for the registration of, and the sale on a continuous or delayed basis by the Holders of, all of the Registrable Securities, from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by such Holders, pursuant to Rule 415 under the Act or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, subject to the terms and conditions hereof; (b) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Shelf Registration Statement to become effective under the Act, or otherwise make available for use by Holders a previously filed Shelf Registration Statement, no later than the Effectiveness Target Date and the Effectiveness Date; (c) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the Act, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period (the "Shelf Registration Period") from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission until the earlier of: (A) two years after the last date of the original issuance of any of the Notes, (B) the sale pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement of all the Notes or the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes and (C) the date when the Holders of the Notes and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof are able to sell all such securities immediately without restriction pursuant to the volume limitation provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Shelf Registration Period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Registrable Securities not being able to offer and sell such Securities at any time during the Shelf Registration Period, unless such action is (x) required by applicable law or otherwise undertaken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets, and (y) permitted by Section 3(c)(x)(B) hereof. (d) The Company shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or such amendment or supplement, and any Issuer Free Writing 4
Prospectus, as of the date thereof, (i) to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Act; and (ii) not to contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading. (e) Not less than 30 days prior to the Effectiveness Target Date, the Company shall mail the Notice and Questionnaire to the Holders. Each Holder that becomes a Notice Holder (and provides such additional information as the Company reasonably may request) no later than 15 days following such Holder's receipt of notice from the Company of the filing or designation of the Shelf Registration Statement shall be named as a selling securityholder in the initial Registration Statement made available to Holders under the Shelf Registration Statement. (f) If the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective for any reason at any time during the Shelf Registration Period (other than because all Registrable Securities registered thereunder shall have been resold pursuant thereto or shall have otherwise ceased to be Registrable Securities), the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness thereof or file or designate a subsequent Shelf Registration Statement covering all of the securities that as of the date of such filing or designation are Registrable Securities. If such an subsequent Shelf Registration Statement is filed or designated (and is not already effective), the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the subsequent Shelf Registration Statement to become effective as promptly as is practicable after such filing or designation and to keep such subsequent Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the end of the Shelf Registration Period. (g) The Company shall supplement and amend the Shelf Registration Statement if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement, if required by the Act or as reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or by the Trustee on behalf of the Holders of the Registrable Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement. (h) Each Holder of Registrable Securities agrees to deliver a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company at least five Business Days prior to any intended distribution by it of Registrable Securities under the Shelf Registration Statement. From and after the Effectiveness Date, the Company shall, as promptly as practicable after the date a Notice and Questionnaire is delivered, and in any event upon the later of (x) ten Business Days after such date (but no earlier than ten Business Days after effectiveness) or (y) ten Business Days after the expiration of any Deferral Period in effect when the Notice and Questionnaire is delivered or put into effect within five Business Days of such delivery date: (i) if required by applicable law, file with the Commission a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or prepare and, if required by applicable law, file a supplement to the related Prospectus or an amendment or supplement to any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire is named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus in such a manner as to permit such Holder to 5
deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of the Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law and, if the Company shall file a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its reasonable best efforts to cause such post-effective amendment to become effective under the Act as promptly as is practicable, but in any event by the Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date; (ii) provide such Holder copies of any documents filed pursuant to Section 2(g)(i); and (iii) notify such Holder as promptly as practicable after the effectiveness under the Act of any post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Section 2(g)(i); provided that if such Notice and Questionnaire is delivered during a Deferral Period, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire and shall take the actions set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above upon expiration of the Deferral Period in accordance with Section 2(c). Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, (i) the Company shall be under no obligation to name any Holder that is not a Notice Holder as a selling securityholder in any Registration Statement or related Prospectus and (ii) the Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date shall be extended by up to 20 Business Days from the Expiration of a Deferral Period if such Deferral Period shall be in effect on the Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date. 3. Registration Procedures. The following provisions shall apply in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement. (a) the Company shall: (i) comply with all the provisions of Section 2(c) hereof and shall use its reasonable best efforts to effect such registration to permit the sale of the Registrable Securities, and pursuant thereto, shall as expeditiously as possible prepare and file with the Commission a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the registration on any appropriate form under the Act, or otherwise make available for use by Holders a previously filed Shelf Registration Statement. (ii) furnish to each of the Representatives and to counsel for the Notice Holders, not less than five Business Days prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, a copy of the Shelf Registration Statement and each amendment thereof and each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein (including all documents incorporated by reference therein after the initial filing) and shall use its reasonable best efforts to reflect in each such document, when so filed with the Commission, such comments as the Representatives reasonably propose; and (iii) include information regarding the Notice Holders and the methods of distribution they have elected for their Registrable Securities provided to the Company in Notices and Questionnaires as necessary to permit such distribution by the methods specified therein. 6
(b) The Company shall ensure that: (i) the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the Act; and (ii) the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. (c) in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement and any Prospectus required by this Agreement to permit the sale or resale of Registrable Securities, the Company shall: (i) subject to any notice by the Company in accordance with this Section 3(c) of the existence of any fact or event of the kind described in Section 3(c)(iii)(D), use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective during the Shelf Registration Period; upon the occurrence of any event that would cause the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus contained therein (A) to contain a material misstatement or omission or (B) not to be effective and usable for resale of Registrable Securities during the Shelf Registration Period, the Company shall file promptly a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus or file any other required document, in the case of clause (A), correcting any such misstatement or omission, and, in the case of either clause (A) or (B), use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective and the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus to become usable for their intended purposes as soon as practicable thereafter. (ii) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Shelf Registration Period; cause the Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Act, and to comply fully with the applicable provisions of Rule 424 under the Act in a timely manner; and comply with the provisions of the Act with respect to the disposition of all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the sellers thereof set forth or to be set forth in the Shelf Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus. (iii) advise the Initial Purchasers and selling Holders promptly and, if requested, to confirm such advice in writing (which notice pursuant to clauses (B) through (E) below shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the Company shall have remedied the basis for such suspension): 7
(A) when the Prospectus, any Prospectus supplement, any post-effective amendment or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus has been filed with the Commission, and when the Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective, (B) of any request by the Commission for any amendment or supplement to the Shelf Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information, (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement under the Act or of any notice that would prevent its use, or the institution or threatening of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes, (D) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the threatening or initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes, (E) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event, during the Shelf Registration Period, that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Shelf Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, or (F) when any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus includes information that may conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement. (iv) use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or the qualification of the securities therein for sale in any jurisdiction or any notice that would prevent its use and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof. (v) furnish to each Notice Holder, without charge, at least one copy of the Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated therein by reference, and, if a Notice Holder so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein). (vi) if requested by any selling Holders or the Representatives, promptly incorporate in the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, pursuant to a supplement or post-effective amendment if necessary, such information as such selling Holders may reasonably request to have included therein, including, 8
without limitation, information relating to the "Plan of Distribution" of the Registrable Securities. (vii) deliver to each Initial Purchaser, selling Holder, and any sales or placement agents or underwriters acting on their behalf, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary Prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto, and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as such persons may reasonably request. The Company hereby consents to the use of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, by each of the selling Holders in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto. (viii) prior to any public offering of Registrable Securities, arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder shall reasonably request and shall maintain such qualification in effect so long as required; provided that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the Initial Placement or any offering pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject. (ix) cooperate with the Holders of Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Securities to be issued or sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such denominations and registered in such names as Holders may request. (x) (A) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by subsections (c)(iii)(B) through (D) above, the Company shall promptly (or within the time period provided for by clause (B) hereof, if applicable) prepare a post-effective amendment to the applicable Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus, relevant Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to purchasers of the securities included therein, such Registration Statement, Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. (B) Upon the occurrence or existence of any pending corporate development or any other material event that, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, makes it appropriate to suspend the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus or relevant Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Company shall give notice (without notice of the nature or details of such events) (a "Deferral Notice") to the Holders 9
that the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement is suspended and, upon actual receipt of any such notice, each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration until such Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in Section 3(c)(xi) hereof, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the Prospectus and any applicable Issuer Free Writing Prospectus may be used, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in such Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus. The period during which the availability of the Shelf Registration, any Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus is suspended (the "Deferral Period") shall not exceed 120 days in any twelve-month period. (xi) not later than the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement, provide CUSIP numbers for the Securities registered under the Shelf Registration Statement and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for such Securities, in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company. (xii) comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and shall make generally available to its security holders an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act as soon as practicable after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement and in any event no later than 40 days after the end of a 12-month period (or 75 days, if such period is a fiscal year) beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement. (xiii) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in a timely manner. (xiv) enter into customary agreements and take all other appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of the Securities. (xv) make reasonably available for inspection by the Holders of Securities to be registered thereunder, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the Holders or any such underwriter all relevant financial and other records and pertinent corporate documents of the Company and its subsidiaries. (xvi) cause the Company's officers, directors, employees, accountants and auditors to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the Holders or any such attorney, accountant or agent in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations. (xvii) cause all Common Stock covered by the Shelf Registration Statement to be listed or quoted, as the case may be, on each securities exchange or automated quotation system on which Common Stock is then listed or quoted. 10
(xviii) provide to each Holder upon written request each document filed with the Commission pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 and Section 15 of the Exchange Act after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement, unless such document is available through the Commission's EDGAR system. (xix) use its reasonable best efforts if the Securities have been rated prior to the initial sale of such Securities, to confirm such ratings will apply to the Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement. (xx) use its reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement. (d) The Company may require each Holder of securities to be sold pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the distribution of such securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in such Registration Statement. The Company may exclude from such Shelf Registration Statement the Securities of any Holder that unreasonably fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request. (e) In the event that any Broker-Dealer shall underwrite any Securities or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the NASD Rules) thereof, whether as a Holder of such Securities or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, the Company shall assist such Broker-Dealer in complying with the NASD Rules. (f) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement. 4. Holder's Obligations: Each Holder agrees, by acquisition of the Registrable Securities, that no Holder of Registrable Securities shall be entitled to sell any of such Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement or to receive a Prospectus relating thereto, unless such Holder has furnished the Company with a Notice and Questionnaire as required pursuant to Section 2(d) and 2(g) hereof (including the information required to be included in such Notice and Questionnaire) and the information set forth in the next sentence. Each Notice Holder agrees promptly to furnish to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Notice Holder not misleading and any other information regarding such Notice Holder and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request. Any sale of any Registrable Securities by any Holder shall constitute a representation and warranty by such Holder that the information relating to such Holder and its plan of distribution is as set forth in the Prospectus delivered by such Holder in connection with such distribution, that such Prospectus does not as of the time of such sale contain any untrue statement of a material fact relating to or provided by such Holder or its plan of distribution and that such Prospectus does not as of the time of such sale omit to state any material fact relating to 11
or provided by such Holder or its plan of distribution necessary to make the statements in such Prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. 5. Registration Expenses. The Company shall bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and will reimburse the Holders for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm or counsel (which shall initially be Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, but which may be another nationally recognized law firm experienced in securities matters designated by the Majority Holders) to act as counsel for the Holders in connection herewith. 6. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, each Initial Purchaser and each person who controls any such Holder or Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Shelf Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the party claiming indemnification specifically for inclusion therein and provided further, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that a Holder fails to deliver, at or prior to the written confirmation of sale, the most recent Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, if such Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, had been previously furnished by or on behalf of the Company to such Holder and corrected such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission of a material fact and the delivery thereof by such Holder was required by law or any rule or regulation of any applicable stock exchange. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability that the Company may otherwise have. (b) Each Holder of Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement (including each Initial Purchaser that is a Holder, in such capacity) severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs the Shelf Registration Statement and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each such Holder, against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which the Company or such control persons may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or 12
otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Shelf Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action, but in each case only to the extent that the untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement shall be acknowledged by each Notice Holder that is not an Initial Purchaser in such Notice Holder's Notice and Questionnaire and shall be in addition to any liability that any such Notice Holder may otherwise have. (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 6 or notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 6, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses; and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel, other than local counsel if not appointed by the indemnifying party, retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); provided however, that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in respect of the legal expenses of any indemnified party in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all such indemnified parties. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a 13
reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding. (d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 6 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, then each applicable indemnifying party shall have a joint and several obligation to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending loss, claim, liability, damage or action) (collectively "Losses") to which such indemnified party may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement and the Shelf Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses; provided, however, that in no event shall any Initial Purchaser be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the purchase discount or commission applicable to such Security, as set forth in the Final Memorandum; provided further, that in no event shall the Company be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the total net proceeds from the initial placement pursuant to the Purchase Agreement (before deducting expenses) of the Registrable Securities to which such Losses relate; provided further, that in no event shall any Holder be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the amount by which (i) the total price at which the Notes purchased by it were resold exceeds (ii) the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the Initial Placement (before deducting expenses) as set forth in the Final Memorandum. Benefits received by the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total purchase discounts and commissions as set forth on the cover page of the Final Memorandum, and benefits received by any other Holders shall be deemed to be equal to the value of receiving Securities registered under the Act. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the indemnifying party, on the one hand, or by the indemnified party, on the other hand, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of 14
this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 6, each person who controls a Holder within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director and officer of such Holder shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Shelf Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d). (e) The provisions of this Section 6 shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any of the indemnified persons referred to in this Section 6, and shall survive the sale by a Holder of Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement. 7. Rule 144A and Rule 144. The Company agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Registrable Securities remain outstanding and during any period in which the Company (i) is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, to make available, upon request of any Holder, to such Holder of Registrable Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Registrable Securities designated by such Holder, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Act in order to permit resales of such Registrable Securities pursuant to Rule 144A, and (ii) is subject to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Exchange Act, to make all filings required thereby in a timely manner in order to permit resales of such Registrable Securities pursuant to Rule 144. 8. Registration Defaults. (a) If, and only if, any of the following events shall occur (each such event, a "Registration Default"), then the Company shall pay liquidated damages (the "Registration Default Damages") to the Holders of Registrable Notes in respect of the Notes as follows: (i) the Shelf Registration Statement is not filed, or on file, with the Commission prior to or on the Shelf Filing Deadline, commencing on the day following the Shelf Filing Deadline, Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the Registrable Notes at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 120 days from and including the day following the Shelf Filing Deadline and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or (ii) the Shelf Registration Statement has not become effective, or a previously effective Shelf Registration Statement has not been made available, prior to or on the Effectiveness Target Date, commencing on the date following the Effectiveness Target Date, Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the Registrable Notes at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 120 days from and including the day following the Effectiveness Target Date and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or (iii) the Shelf Registration Statement is filed and has become effective but, during the Shelf Registration Period, shall thereafter cease to be effective or 15
fail to be usable for its intended purpose (other than pursuant to Section 3(c)(x) hereof) for more than 5 Business Days, Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 120 days from and including such date on which the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or (iv) if the aggregate duration of Deferral Periods in any period exceeds the number of days permitted in respect of such period pursuant to Section 3(c)(x) hereof, then commencing on the day the aggregate duration of Deferral Periods in any period exceeds the number of days permitted in respect of such period, Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the Registrable Notes at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 120 days from and including such date and 0.50% per annum thereafter. The Registration Default Damages payable as specified above shall be determined: (A) in respect of the Registrable Notes, to each holder of Notes as described in Section 8(i) through (iv); and (B) in respect of the Registrable Notes submitted for conversion into Common Stock during the existence of a Registration Default with respect to the Common Stock, the holder will not be entitled to receive any Registration Default Damages with respect to such Common Stock but (x) will be entitled to a conversion rate adjustment, if any, in accordance with the terms of the Notes as set forth in the Indenture and (y) will receive from the Company on the settlement date with respect to such conversion, accrued and unpaid Registration Default Damages on the Registrable Notes calculated in accordance with paragraph (A) to the Conversion Date (as defined in the Indenture); and (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will Registration Default Damages be payable in connection with a failure to register the Common Stock. For the avoidance of doubt, if the Company fails to register both the Notes and the Common Stock, then the Registration Default Damages shall be payable in connection with the failure to register the Notes. (c) The Company shall in no event be required to pay Registration Default Damages in respect of more than one Registration Default at any one time. Additionally, in no event will Registration Default Damages accrue at a rate per year in excess of .50%. (d) Any amounts of Registration Default Damages due pursuant to Section 8(a) will be payable in cash semi-annually in arrears on each April 1 and October 1, with the first semi-annual payment due on the first such payment date after which a Registration Default occurs. A Holder will not be entitled to Registration Default Damages as provided in Section 6 hereof, unless such Holder has timely delivered to the Company a duly completed Notice and Questionnaire, together with such other information reasonably requested of such Holder in accordance with this Agreement. 16
9. No Inconsistent Agreements. The Company has not entered into, and agrees not to enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or that otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. 10. Amendments and Waivers. The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities outstanding (provided that the Holders of Shares issued upon conversion of Notes, which Shares are Registrable Shares, shall not be deemed Holders of Shares, but shall be deemed Holders of the aggregate principal amount at maturity of Notes from which such shares were converted; provided, that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser against which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent is to be effective; provided, further, that no amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent with respect to Section 8 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registered Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder; and provided further, that the provisions of this Article 10 may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Initial Purchasers and each Holder. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing provisos), a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Securities are being sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of Securities being sold rather than registered under such Shelf Registration Statement. 11. Notices. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail, telex, telecopier or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery: (a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such holder to the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Notice and Questionnaire, which address initially is, with respect to each Holder, the address of such Holder maintained by the Registrar under the Indenture; (b) if to the Initial Purchasers, initially at the address or addresses set forth in the Purchase Agreement; and (c) if to the Company, initially at its address set forth in the Purchase Agreement. All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when received. The Initial Purchasers or the Company by notice to the other parties may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. 17
12. Remedies. Each Holder, in addition to being entitled to exercise all rights provided to it herein, in the Indenture or in the Purchase Agreement or granted by law, including recovery of liquidated or other damages, will be entitled to specific performance of its rights under this Agreement. The Company agrees that monetary damages would not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a breach by it of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby agrees to waive in any action for specific performance the defense that a remedy at law would be adequate. 13. Successors. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns, including, without the need for an express assignment or any consent by the Company thereto, subsequent Holders of Securities, and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 6 hereof. The Company hereby agrees to extend the benefits of this Agreement to any Holder of Securities, and any such Holder may specifically enforce the provisions of this Agreement as if an original party hereto. 14. Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 15. Headings. The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 16. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York. The parties hereto each hereby waive any right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim arising out of or relating to this Agreement. 17. Severability. In the event that any one of more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. 18. Securities Held by the Company, etc. Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of principal amount of Securities is required hereunder, Securities held by the Company or its Affiliates (other than subsequent Holders of Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be Affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage. 18
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement between the Company and the several Initial Purchasers. Very truly yours, Allergan, Inc. By: /s/ Jeffrey L. Edwards ------------------------------------ Name: Jeffrey L. Edwards ---------------------------------- Title:Executive Vice President, --------------------------------- Finance and Business Development, --------------------------------- Chief Financial Officer --------------------------------- The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written. Banc of America Securities LLC Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated By: Bank of America Securities LLC By: /s/ Derek Dillon --------------------------------- Name: Derek Dillon ------------------------------- Title: Managing Director ------------------------------ By: Citigroup Global Markets Inc. By: /s/ Graeme Gilfillan --------------------------------- Name: Graeme Gilfillan ------------------------------- Title: Managing Director ------------------------------ 19

Exhibit 4.4 Allergan, Inc. 5.75% Senior Notes due 2016 REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT April 12, 2006 Banc of America Securities LLC Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Goldman, Sachs & Co. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated As Representatives of the Initial Purchasers c/o Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated 1585 Broadway New York, New York 10036 Ladies and Gentlemen: Allergan, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to certain purchasers (the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, its 5.75% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "Securities"), upon the terms set forth in the Purchase Agreement between the Company and the Representatives dated April 6, 2006 (the "Purchase Agreement") relating to the initial placement (the "Initial Placement") of the Securities. To induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and to satisfy a condition to your obligations thereunder, the Company agrees with you for your benefit and the benefit of the holders from time to time of the Securities (including the Initial Purchasers) (each a "Holder" and, collectively, the "Holders"), as follows: 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings: "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Affiliate" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 405 under the Act and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" shall have meanings correlative thereto. "Broker-Dealer" shall mean any broker or dealer registered as such under the Exchange Act. "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City.
"Closing Date" shall mean the date of the first issuance of the Securities. "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Deferral Period" shall have the meaning indicated in Section 4(k)(ii) hereof. "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Exchange Offer Registration Period" shall mean the one-year period following the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer, exclusive of any period during which any stop order shall be in effect suspending the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" shall mean a registration statement of the Company on an appropriate form under the Act with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer, all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments thereto, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein. "Exchanging Dealer" shall mean any Holder (which may include any Initial Purchaser) that is a Broker-Dealer and elects to exchange for New Securities any Securities that it acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (but not directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company) for New Securities. "Final Memorandum" shall mean the offering memorandum, dated April 6, 2006, relating to the Securities, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein as of such date. "Holder" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Indenture" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities, dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, as the same may be amended from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof. "Initial Placement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Initial Purchaser" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" shall mean an issuer free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 433 under the Act. "Losses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. "Majority Holders" shall mean, on any date, Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Securities registered under a Registration Statement. 2
"Managing Underwriters" shall mean the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that administer an underwritten offering, if any, under a Registration Statement. "NASD Rules" shall mean the Conduct Rules and the By-Laws of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. "New Securities" shall mean debt securities of the Company identical in all material respects to the Securities (except that the transfer restrictions shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate) to be issued under the Indenture or the New Securities Indenture. "New Securities Indenture" shall mean an indenture between the Company and the New Securities Trustee, identical in all material respects to the Indenture (except that the transfer restrictions shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate), which may be the Indenture if in the terms thereof appropriate provision is made for the New Securities. "New Securities Trustee" shall mean a bank or trust company reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers, as trustee with respect to the New Securities under the New Securities Indenture. "Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Securities or the New Securities covered by such Registration Statement, and all amendments and supplements thereto, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein. "Purchase Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Registered Exchange Offer" shall mean the proposed offer of the Company to issue and deliver to the Holders of the Securities that are not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in such offer, in exchange for the Securities, a like aggregate principal amount of the New Securities. "Registrable Securities" shall mean (i) Securities other than those that have been (A) registered under a Registration Statement and disposed of in accordance therewith or (B) distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Act or any successor rule or regulation thereto that may be adopted by the Commission and (ii) any New Securities resale of which by the Holder thereof requires compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Act. "Registration Default Damages" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8 hereof. "Registration Statement" shall mean any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement that covers any of the Securities or the New Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, any amendments and supplements to such registration 3
statement, including post-effective amendments (in each case including the Prospectus contained therein), all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein. "Securities" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto. "Shelf Registration" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 3 hereof. "Shelf Registration Period" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b)(ii) hereof. "Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 3 hereof which covers some or all of the Securities or New Securities, as applicable, on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein. "Trustee" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture. "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "underwriter" shall mean any underwriter of Securities in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement. 2. Registered Exchange Offer. (a) The Company shall prepare and, not later than 120 days following the Closing Date (or if such 120th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), shall file with the Commission the Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective under the Act within 180 days of the Closing Date. (b) Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Registered Exchange Offer to enable each Holder electing to exchange Securities for New Securities (assuming that such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company, acquires the New Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business, has no arrangements with any person to participate in the distribution of the New Securities and is not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in the Registered Exchange Offer) to trade such New Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the Act and without material restrictions under the securities laws of a substantial proportion of the several states of the United States. (c) In connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall: 4
(i) mail to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents; (ii) keep the Registered Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 Business Days and not more than 30 Business Days after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (or, in each case, longer if required by applicable law); (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective under the Act, supplemented and amended as required, under the Act to ensure that it is available for sales of New Securities by Exchanging Dealers during the Exchange Offer Registration Period; (iv) utilize the services of a depositary for the Registered Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City, which may be the Trustee, the New Securities Trustee or an Affiliate of either of them; (v) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last Business Day on which the Registered Exchange Offer is open; (vi) prior to effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, provide a supplemental letter to the Commission (A) stating that the Company is conducting the Registered Exchange Offer in reliance on the position of the Commission in Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation (pub. avail. May 13, 1988) and Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc. (pub. avail. June 5, 1991); and (B) including a representation that the Company has not entered into any arrangement or understanding with any person to distribute the New Securities to be received in the Registered Exchange Offer and that, to the best of the Company's information and belief, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer is acquiring the New Securities in the ordinary course of business and has no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in the distribution of the New Securities; and (vii) comply in all respects with all applicable laws. (d) As soon as practicable after the close of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall: (i) accept for exchange all Securities tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer; (ii) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation in accordance with Section 4(s) all Securities so accepted for exchange; and (iii) cause the New Securities Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver to each Holder of Securities a principal amount of New Securities equal to the principal amount of the Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange. 5
(e) Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Registered Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the New Securities (x) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission in Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation (pub. avail. May 13, 1988) and Morgan Stanley and Co., Inc. (pub. avail. June 5, 1991), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993 and similar no-action letters; and (y) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with any secondary resale transaction, which must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K under the Act if the resales are of New Securities obtained by such Holder in exchange for Securities acquired by such Holder directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates. Accordingly, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer shall be required to represent to the Company that, at the time of the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer: (i) any New Securities received by such Holder will be acquired in the ordinary course of business; (ii) such Holder will have no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in the distribution of the Securities or the New Securities within the meaning of the Act; and (iii) such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company. (f) If any Initial Purchaser determines that it is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer with respect to the exchange of Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, at the request of such Initial Purchaser, the Company shall issue and deliver to such Initial Purchaser or the person purchasing New Securities registered under a Shelf Registration Statement as contemplated by Section 3 hereof from such Initial Purchaser, in exchange for such Securities, a like principal amount of New Securities. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the CUSIP Service Bureau to issue the same CUSIP number for such New Securities as for New Securities issued pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer. 3. Shelf Registration. (a) If (i) due to any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Commission's staff, the Company determines upon advice of its outside counsel that it is not permitted to effect the Registered Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2 hereof; or (ii) for any other reason the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated within 210 days of the date hereof; (iii) any Initial Purchaser so requests, within 20 days after the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer with respect to Securities that are not eligible to be exchanged for New Securities in the Registered Exchange Offer and that are held by it following consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer; (iv) any Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) notifies us within 20 days after the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer that it is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer; or (v) in the case of any Initial Purchaser that participates in the Registered Exchange Offer or acquires New Securities pursuant to Section 2(f) hereof, such Initial Purchaser does not receive freely tradeable New Securities in exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment (it being understood that (x) the requirement that an Initial Purchaser deliver a 6
Prospectus containing the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K under the Act in connection with sales of New Securities acquired in exchange for such Securities shall result in such New Securities being not "freely tradeable"; and (y) the requirement that an Exchanging Dealer deliver a Prospectus in connection with sales of New Securities acquired in the Registered Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities shall not result in such New Securities being not "freely tradeable"), the Company shall effect a Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with subsection (b) below. (b) (i) The Company shall as promptly as practicable (but in no event more than 30 days after so required or requested pursuant to this Section 3), file with the Commission or, if permitted by Rule 430B under the Securities Act, otherwise designate an existing filing with the Commission, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective under the Act as soon as practicable after so required or requested, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Securities or the New Securities, as applicable, by the Holders thereof from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by such Holders and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement; provided, however, that no Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) shall be entitled to have the Securities held by it covered by such Shelf Registration Statement unless such Holder agrees in writing to be bound by all of the provisions of this Agreement applicable to such Holder; and provided further, that with respect to New Securities received by an Initial Purchaser in exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, the Company may, if permitted by current interpretations by the Commission's staff, file a post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement containing the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection with respect thereto, and any such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as so amended, shall be referred to herein as, and governed by the provisions herein applicable to, a Shelf Registration Statement. (ii) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the Act, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period (the "Shelf Registration Period") from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission until the earlier of: (A) the second anniversary thereof or (B) the date upon which all the Securities or New Securities, as applicable, covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. The Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Shelf Registration Period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Securities covered thereby not being able to offer and sell such Securities at any time during the Shelf Registration Period, unless such action is (x) required by applicable law or otherwise undertaken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets, and (y) permitted pursuant to Section 4(k)(ii) hereof. 7
(iii) The Company shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or such amendment or supplement, and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of the date thereof, (A) to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Act; and (B) not to contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading. 4. Additional Registration Procedures. In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement and, to the extent applicable, any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply. (a) The Company shall: (i) furnish to each of the Representatives and to counsel for the Holders, not less than five Business Days prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, a copy of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any Shelf Registration Statement, and each amendment thereof and each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein (including all documents incorporated by reference therein after the initial filing) and shall use its reasonable best efforts to reflect in each such document, when so filed with the Commission, such comments as the Representatives reasonably propose; (ii) include the information set forth in Annex A hereto on the facing page of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, in Annex B hereto in the forepart of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in a section setting forth details of the Exchange Offer, in Annex C hereto in the underwriting or plan of distribution section of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, and in Annex D hereto in the letter of transmittal delivered pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer; (iii) if requested by an Initial Purchaser, include the information required by Item 507 or 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement; and (iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, include the names of the Holders that propose to sell Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement as selling security holders. (b) The Company shall ensure that: (i) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any amendment or supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the Act; and 8
(ii) any Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. (c) The Company shall advise the Representatives, the Holders of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement and any Exchanging Dealer under any Exchange Offer Registration Statement that has provided in writing to the Company a telephone or facsimile number and address for notices, and, if requested by any Representative or any such Holder or Exchanging Dealer, shall confirm such advice in writing (which notice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) hereof shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the Company shall have remedied the basis for such suspension): (i) when any Registration Statement, any post-effective amendment thereto, any Prospectus, any Prospectus supplement or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus has been filed with the Commission, and when the Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective; (ii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information; (iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement under the Act or of any notice that would prevent its use, or the institution or threatening of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes; (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the securities included therein for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the threatening or initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes; (v) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event, that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Registration Statement, any amendment or supplement thereto, the Prospectus, or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading; and (vi) when any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus includes information that may conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement. (d) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or the qualification of the securities therein for sale in any jurisdiction or any notice that would prevent its use and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof. 9
(e) The Company shall furnish to each Holder of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, at least one copy of such Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated therein by reference, and, if the Holder so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein). (f) The Company shall, during the Shelf Registration Period, deliver to each Holder of Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary Prospectus) included in such Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto, and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as such Holder may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, by each of the selling Holders of Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Shelf Registration Statement. (g) The Company shall furnish to each Exchanging Dealer which so requests, without charge, at least one copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including all material incorporated by reference therein, and, if the Exchanging Dealer so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein). (h) The Company shall promptly deliver to each Initial Purchaser, each Exchanging Dealer and each other person required to deliver a Prospectus during the Exchange Offer Registration Period, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus included in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto, and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as any such person may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus by any Initial Purchaser, any Exchanging Dealer and any such other person that may be required to deliver a Prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer in connection with the offering and sale of the New Securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. (i) Prior to the Registered Exchange Offer or any other offering of Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement, the Company shall arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities or the New Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder shall reasonably request and shall maintain such qualification in effect so long as required; provided that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the Initial Placement, the Registered Exchange Offer or any offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject. (j) The Company shall cooperate with the Holders of Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing New Securities or Securities to be issued or sold pursuant to any Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such denominations and registered in such names as Holders may request. 10
(k) (i) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by subsections (c)(ii) through (vi) above, the Company shall promptly (or within the time period provided for by clause (ii) hereof, if applicable) prepare a post-effective amendment to the applicable Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus, relevant Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to purchasers of the securities included therein, such Registration Statement, Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. In such circumstances, the period of effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement provided for in Section 2 shall be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of a notice of suspension pursuant to Section 4(c) to and including the date when the Initial Purchasers, the Holders of the Securities and any known Exchanging Dealer shall have received such amended or supplemented Prospectus pursuant to this Section. (ii) Upon the occurrence or existence of any pending corporate development or any other material event that, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, makes it appropriate to suspend the availability of a Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus or relevant Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Company shall give notice (without notice of the nature or details of such events) to the Holders that the availability of the Shelf Registration is suspended and, upon actual receipt of any such notice, each Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration until such Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in Section 3(k) hereof, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the Prospectus and applicable Issuer Free Writing Prospectus may be used, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in such Prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus. The period during which the availability of the Shelf Registration, any Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus is suspended (the "Deferral Period") shall not exceed 90 days in any twelve-month period. (l) Not later than the effective date of any Registration Statement, the Company shall provide a CUSIP number for the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, registered under such Registration Statement and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for such Securities or New Securities, in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company. (m) The Company shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and shall make generally available to its security holders an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act as soon as practicable after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement and in any event no later than 40 days after the end of a 12-month period (or 75 days, if such period is a fiscal year) beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement. 11
(n) The Company shall cause the New Securities Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in a timely manner. (o) The Company may require each Holder of securities to be sold pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the distribution of such securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in such Registration Statement. The Company may exclude from such Shelf Registration Statement the Securities of any Holder that unreasonably fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request. (p) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall enter into customary agreements (including, if requested, an underwriting agreement in customary form) and take all other appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of the Securities, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to contain indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable than those set forth in Section 6 hereof. (q) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall: (i) make reasonably available for inspection by the Holders of Securities to be registered thereunder, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the Holders or any such underwriter all relevant financial and other records and pertinent corporate documents of the Company and its subsidiaries; (ii) cause the Company's officers, directors, employees, accountants and auditors to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the Holders or any such underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent in connection with any such Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations; (iii) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of Securities registered thereunder and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings and covering matters including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (iv) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Managing Underwriters, if any) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters; (v) obtain "comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of 12
any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement), addressed to each selling Holder of Securities registered thereunder and the underwriters, if any, in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings; and (vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Majority Holders or the Managing Underwriters, if any, including those to evidence compliance with Section 4(k) and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company. The actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of this paragraph (q) shall be performed at (A) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement and each post-effective amendment thereto; and (B) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder. (r) In the case of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall, if requested by an Initial Purchaser, or by a broker dealer that holds Securities that were acquired as a result of market making or other trading activities: (i) make reasonably available for inspection by the requesting party, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the requesting party, all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries; (ii) cause the Company's officers, directors, employees, accountants and auditors to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the requesting party or any such attorney, accountant or agent in connection with any such Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations; (iii) make such representations and warranties to the requesting party, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings and covering matters including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement; (iv) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the requesting party and its counsel, addressed to the requesting party, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by the requesting party or its counsel; (v) obtain "comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of 13
any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement), addressed to the requesting party, in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, or if requested by the requesting party or its counsel in lieu of a "comfort" letter, an agreed-upon procedures letter under Statement on Auditing Standards No. 35, covering matters requested by the requesting party or its counsel; and (vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the requesting party or its counsel, including those to evidence compliance with Section 4(k) and with conditions customarily contained in underwriting agreements. The foregoing actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this Section shall be performed at the close of the Registered Exchange Offer and the effective date of any post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. (s) If a Registered Exchange Offer is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Securities by Holders to the Company (or to such other person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the New Securities, the Company shall mark, or caused to be marked, on the Securities so exchanged that such Securities are being cancelled in exchange for the New Securities. In no event shall the Securities be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied. (t) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts if the Securities have been rated prior to the initial sale of such Securities, to confirm such ratings will apply to the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, covered by a Registration Statement. (u) In the event that any Broker-Dealer shall underwrite any Securities or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the NASD Rules) thereof, whether as a Holder of such Securities or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, the Company shall assist such Broker-Dealer in complying with the NASD Rules. (v) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Securities or the New Securities, as the case may be, covered by a Registration Statement. 5. Registration Expenses. The Company shall bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 2, 3 and 4 hereof and, in the event of any Shelf Registration Statement, will reimburse the Holders for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm or counsel (which shall initially be Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, but which may be another nationally recognized law firm experienced in securities matters designated by the Majority Holders) to act as counsel for the Holders in connection therewith, and, in the case of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, will reimburse the Initial 14
Purchasers for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm or counsel acting in connection therewith. 6. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Registration Statement, each Initial Purchaser and, with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in Section 4(h) hereof, each Exchanging Dealer, the directors, officers, employees, Affiliates and agents of each such Holder, Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer and each person who controls any such Holder, Initial Purchaser or Exchanging Dealer within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the party claiming indemnification specifically for inclusion therein and provided further, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that a Holder fails to deliver, at or prior to the written confirmation of sale, the most recent Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, if such Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, had been previously furnished by or on behalf of the Company to such Holder and corrected such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission of a material fact and the delivery thereof by such Holder was required by law or any rule or regulation of any applicable stock exchange. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability that the Company may otherwise have. (b) Each Holder of Securities covered by a Registration Statement (including each Initial Purchaser that is a Holder, in such capacity) severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs such Registration Statement and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each such Holder, against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which the Company or such control persons may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in such Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof 15
or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action, but in each case only to the extent that the untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that any such Holder may otherwise have. (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 6 or notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 6, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses; and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel, other than local counsel if not appointed by the indemnifying party, retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); provided, however, that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in respect of the legal expenses of any indemnified party in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all such indemnified parties. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or 16
contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding. (d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 6 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, then each applicable indemnifying party shall have a joint and several obligation to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending loss, claim, liability, damage or action) (collectively "Losses") to which such indemnified party may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement and the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses; provided, however, that in no event shall any Initial Purchaser be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the purchase discount or commission applicable to such Security, or in the case of a New Security, applicable to the Security that was exchangeable into such New Security, as set forth in the Final Memorandum; provided further, that in no event shall the Company be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the total net proceeds from the initial placement pursuant to the Purchase Agreement (before deducting expenses) of the Registrable Securities to which such Losses relate; provided further, that in no event shall any Holder be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the amount by which (i) the total price at which the Notes purchased by it were resold exceeds (ii) the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the Initial Placement (before deducting expenses) as set forth in the Final Memorandum. Benefits received by the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total purchase discounts and commissions as set forth on the cover page of the Final Memorandum, and benefits received by any other Holders shall be deemed to be equal to the value of receiving Securities or New Securities, as applicable, registered under the Act. Benefits received by any underwriter shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, as set forth on the cover page of the Prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the indemnifying party, on the one hand, or by the indemnified party, on the other hand, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 17
Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 6, each person who controls a Holder within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director and officer of such Holder shall have the same rights to contribution as such Holder, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d). (e) The provisions of this Section 6 shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any of the indemnified persons referred to in this Section 6, and shall survive the sale by a Holder of Securities covered by a Registration Statement. 7. Underwritten Registrations. (a) If any of the Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Managing Underwriters shall be selected by the Majority Holders. (b) No person may participate in any underwritten offering pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement, unless such person (i) agrees to sell such person's Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements; and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements. 8. Registration Defaults. If any of the following events shall occur, then the Company shall pay liquidated damages (the "Registration Default Damages") to the Holders of Securities in respect of the Securities as follows: (a) if any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is not filed with the Commission on or prior to the date specified for such filing in this Agreement, then Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days from and including such specified date and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or (b) if the Exchange Offer has not been consummated within 210 days of the Closing Date, then commencing on the day after such date, Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days from and including such date and 0.50% per annum thereafter; or (c) if any Registration Statement required by this Agreement has been declared effective but ceases to be effective at any time at which it is required to be effective or fails to be usable for its intended purpose (other than pursuant to Section 4(k)(ii) hereof) for more than 5 Business Days under this Agreement, then commencing on the day the Registration Statement ceases to be effective, Registration Default Damages shall accrue on the Registrable Securities at a rate of 0.25% per annum for the first 90 days from and including such date on which the Registration Statement ceases to be effective and 0.50% per annum thereafter; provided, 18
however, that (1) upon the filing of the Registration Statement (in the case of paragraph (a) above), (2) upon the consummation (in the case of paragraph (b) above), or (3) upon the effectiveness of the Registration Statement which had ceased to remain effective (in the case of paragraph (c) above), Registration Default Damages shall cease to accrue. (d) The Company shall in no event be required to pay Registration Default Damages in respect of more than one Registration Default at any one time. Additionally, in no event will Registration Default Damages accrue at a rate per year in excess of .50%. 9. No Inconsistent Agreements. The Company has not entered into, and agrees not to enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or that otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. 10. Amendments and Waivers. The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the Registrable Securities outstanding; provided that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser against which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent is to be effective; provided, further, that no amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent with respect to Section 8 hereof shall be effective as against any Holder of Registered Securities unless consented to in writing by such Holder; and provided, further, that the provisions of this Article 10 may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Initial Purchasers and each Holder. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing provisos), a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of Securities or New Securities, as the case may be, being sold rather than registered under such Registration Statement. 11. Notices. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail, telex, telecopier or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery: (a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such holder to the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11, which address initially is, with respect to each Holder, the address of such Holder maintained by the Registrar under the Indenture; (b) if to the Representatives, initially at the address or addresses set forth in the Purchase Agreement; and (c) if to the Company, initially at its address set forth in the Purchase Agreement. 19
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given when received. The Initial Purchasers or the Company by notice to the other parties may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications. 12. Remedies. Each Holder, in addition to being entitled to exercise all rights provided to it herein, in the Indenture or in the Purchase Agreement or granted by law, including recovery of liquidated or other damages, will be entitled to specific performance of its rights under this Agreement. The Company agrees that monetary damages would not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a breach by it of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby agrees to waive in any action for specific performance the defense that a remedy at law would be adequate. 13. Successors. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns, including, without the need for an express assignment or any consent by the Company thereto, subsequent Holders of Securities and the New Securities, and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 6 hereof. The Company hereby agrees to extend the benefits of this Agreement to any Holder of Securities and the New Securities, and any such Holder may specifically enforce the provisions of this Agreement as if an original party hereto. 14. Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 15. Headings. The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 16. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York. The parties hereto each hereby waive any right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim arising out of or relating to this Agreement. 17. Severability. In the event that any one of more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. 18. Securities Held by the Company, etc. Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of principal amount of Securities or New Securities is required hereunder, Securities or New Securities, as applicable, held by the Company or its Affiliates (other than subsequent Holders of Securities or New Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be Affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Securities or New Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage. 20
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement between the Company and the several Initial Purchasers. Very truly yours, Allergan, Inc. By: /s/ Jeffrey L. Edwards ------------------------------------ Name: Jeffrey L. Edwards ---------------------------------- Title:Executive Vice President, --------------------------------- Finance and Business Development, --------------------------------- Chief Financial Officer --------------------------------- The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated Banc of America Securities LLC Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Goldman, Sachs & Co. By: Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated By /s/ Michael Fusco ---------------------------------- Name: Michael Fusco ------------------------------- Title: Executive Director ------------------------------ For themselves and the other several Initial Purchasers named in Schedule I to the Purchase Agreement. 21
EXECUTION COPY ANNEX A Each broker-dealer that receives new securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such new securities. The Letter of Transmittal states that by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act. This prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of new securities received in exchange for securities where such securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The company has agreed that, starting on the expiration date and ending on the close of business one year after the expiration date, it will make this prospectus available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. See "Plan of Distribution". A-1
EXECUTION COPY ANNEX B Each broker-dealer that receives new securities for its own account in exchange for securities, where such securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such new securities. See "Plan of Distribution". B-1
EXECUTION COPY ANNEX C PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION Each broker-dealer that receives new securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such new securities. This prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of new securities received in exchange for securities where such securities were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The company has agreed that, starting on the expiration date and ending on the close of business one year after the expiration date, it will make this prospectus, as amended or supplemented, available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale. In addition, until __________, ______, all dealers effecting transactions in the new securities may be required to deliver a prospectus. The company will not receive any proceeds from any sale of new securities by brokers-dealers. New securities received by broker-dealers for their own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be sold from time to time in one or more transactions in the over-the-counter market, in negotiated transactions, through the writing of options on the new securities or a combination of such methods of resale, at market prices prevailing at the time of resale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices or negotiated prices. Any such resale may be made directly to purchasers or to or through brokers or dealers who may receive compensation in the form of commissions or concessions from any such broker-dealer and/or the purchasers of any such new securities. Any broker-dealer that resales new securities that were received by it for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer and any broker or dealer that participates in a distribution of such new securities may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act and any profit of any such resale of new securities and any commissions or concessions received by any such persons may be deemed to be underwriting compensation under the Act. The Letter of Transmittal states that by acknowledging that it will deliver and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act. For a period of one year after the expiration date, the company will promptly send additional copies of this prospectus and any amendment or supplement to this prospectus to any broker-dealer that requests such documents in the Letter of Transmittal. The company has agreed to pay all expenses incident to the Exchange Offer (including the expenses of one counsel for the holder of the securities) other than commissions or concessions of any brokers or dealers and will indemnify the holders of the securities (including any broker-dealers) against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Act. C-1
EXECUTION COPY ANNEX D Rider A PLEASE FILL IN YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS BELOW IF YOU ARE A BROKER-DEALER AND WISH TO RECEIVE 10 ADDITIONAL COPIES OF THE PROSPECTUS AND 10 COPIES OF ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO. Name: _______________________________ Address: ____________________________ ____________________________ ____________________________ Rider B If the undersigned is not a Broker-Dealer, the undersigned represents that it acquired the New Securities in the ordinary course of its business, it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of New Securities and it has no arrangements or understandings with any person to participate in a distribution of the New Securities. If the undersigned is a Broker-Dealer that will receive New Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities, it represents that the Securities to be exchange for New Securities were acquired by it as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such New Securities; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.

Exhibit 10.1 ALLERGAN, INC. $700,000,000 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026* Purchase Agreement April 6, 2006 Banc of America Securities LLC Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated As Representatives of the Initial Purchasers c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013 Ladies and Gentlemen: Allergan, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several parties named in Schedule I hereto (the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, $700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 (the "Firm Securities"). The Company also proposes to grant to the Initial Purchasers an option to purchase up to $50,000,000 additional principal amount of such Notes to cover over-allotments (the "Option Securities" and, together with the Firm Securities, the "Securities"). The Securities are convertible into shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Company at the conversion price set forth herein. The Securities are to be issued under an indenture (the "Indenture"), to be dated as of the Closing Date, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Securities will have the benefit of a registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), to be dated as of the Closing Date, between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, pursuant to which the Company will agree to register the resale of the Securities under the Act subject to the terms and conditions therein specified. To the extent there are no additional parties listed on Schedule I other than you, the term Representatives as used herein shall mean you as the Initial Purchasers, and the terms Representatives and Initial Purchasers shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires. The use of the neuter in this Agreement shall include the feminine and masculine wherever appropriate. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 20 hereof. The sale of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers will be made without registration of the Securities or the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof under the Act in reliance upon exemptions from the registration requirements of the Act. - ---------- * Plus an option to purchase up to $50,000,000 additional principal amount of Notes from the Company to cover over-allotments.
In connection with the sale of the Securities, the Company has prepared a preliminary offering memorandum, dated April 5, 2006 (including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein, the "Preliminary Memorandum"), and will prepare and deliver to each Initial Purchaser on the date hereof or the next succeeding day, copies of a final offering memorandum, dated April 6, 2006 (as amended or supplemented at the Execution Time, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein, the "Final Memorandum"). Each of the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum sets forth certain information concerning the Company, the Securities and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof. The Company hereby confirms that it has authorized the use of the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Memorandum and Final Memorandum, and any amendment or supplement thereto, in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers. Unless stated to the contrary, any references herein to the terms "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include any information filed under the Exchange Act subsequent to the Execution Time that is incorporated by reference therein. 1. Representations and Warranties. The Company represents and warrants to each Initial Purchaser as set forth below in this Section 1. (a) The Preliminary Memorandum, at the date thereof, did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Disclosure Package as of the Execution Time, does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. At the date thereof, on the Closing Date and on any settlement date for Option Securities, the Final Memorandum will not (and any amendment or supplement thereto, at the date thereof, at the Closing Date and on any such settlement date, will not) contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation or warranty as to the information contained in or omitted from the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, or any amendment or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof. (b) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than you, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has directly or indirectly, made offers or sales of any security, or solicited offers to buy, any security under circumstances that would require the registration of the Securities or the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof under the Act. (c) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than you, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has engaged in any 2
form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in connection with any offer or sale of the Securities in the United States. (d) The Securities satisfy the eligibility requirements of Rule 144A(d)(3) under the Act. (e) The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum will not be, an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act. (f) The Company is subject to and in compliance with the reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Exchange Act. (g) For the six-month period preceding the Execution Time, and except in respect of its issuance of shares of Common Stock in connection with the acquisition of Inamed Corporation, the Company has not paid or agreed to pay to any person any compensation for soliciting another to purchase any securities of the Company (except as contemplated in this Agreement). (h) The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or which has constituted or which might reasonably be expected to cause or result, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities. (i) Each of the Company and its subsidiaries has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation or limited liability company, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of incorporation or organization with full corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and to operate its respective properties and conduct its respective business as described in the Disclosure Package and Final Memorandum, and is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction that requires such qualification, except to the extent that such failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the assets, properties, business, results of operations or financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"). (j) All the issued capital stock or membership interests, as applicable, of each "significant subsidiary" (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X) of the Company (each, a "Significant Subsidiary") have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable, and, except as otherwise set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, and, in the case of Allergan Productos Farmaceutico S.A., except for a minimal number of shares held by persons under the control of the Company for the purposes of complying with local laws and regulations in such company's jurisdiction of organization, all outstanding shares of capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary is owned by the Company either directly or through wholly owned subsidiaries free and clear of any security interest, claim, lien or encumbrance. 3
(k) The Company's authorized equity capitalization is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and the capital stock of the Company conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum; the outstanding shares of Common Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable; the shares of Common Stock initially issuable upon conversion of the Securities have been duly authorized and, when issued upon conversion of the Securities against payment of the conversion price in accordance with the terms of the Securities and the Indenture, will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable; the Board of Directors of the Company has duly and validly adopted resolutions reserving such shares of Common Stock for issuance upon conversion of the Securities; the holders of outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company are not entitled to preemptive or other rights to subscribe for the Securities or the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof; and, except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, no options, warrants or other rights to purchase, agreements or other obligations to issue, or rights to convert any obligations into or exchange any securities for, shares of capital stock of or ownership interests in the Company are outstanding. (l) The statements in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum under the headings "Description of Notes" and "Description of Capital Stock" insofar as such statements purport to summarize certain provisions of the Securities or the Common Stock, are accurate descriptions or summaries in all material respects. (m) The statements in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum under the heading "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences" insofar as they purport to summarize certain provisions of the statutes or regulations referred to therein, are accurate summaries in all material respects. (n) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; the Indenture has been duly authorized and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee, when executed and delivered by the Company, will constitute a legal, valid and binding instrument, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms (subject, as to the enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity); the Securities have been duly authorized, and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Initial Purchasers, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee) will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms (subject, as to the enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity) and will be convertible into Common Stock in accordance with their terms; and the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by the Company. (o) No consent, approval, authorization, filing with or order of any court or governmental agency or body is required in connection with the transactions contemplated 4
herein, in the Indenture or in the Registration Rights Agreement, except such as have already been obtained or as may be required under the Act or state securities laws, the securities laws of foreign jurisdictions or, with respect to the Registration Rights Agreement, the by-laws and rules of the NASD and the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, except for consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications the lack of which would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein. (p) Subject to compliance by the Initial Purchasers with the representations, warranties and agreements set forth in Section 4 hereof, no registration under the Act of the Securities or the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof is required for the offer and sale of the Securities to or by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated herein and in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum. (q) Neither the execution and delivery of the Indenture, this Agreement or the Registration Rights Agreement, the issuance and sale of the Securities or the issuance of the Common Stock upon conversion thereof, nor the fulfillment of the terms hereof or thereof will conflict with, result in a breach or violation of or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, (i) the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its subsidiaries; (ii) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or bound or to which its or their property is subject; or (iii) any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, which violation or default would, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, either individually or in the aggregate with all other violations and defaults referred to in this paragraph (q) (if any), have (x) a Material Adverse Effect or (y) a material adverse effect upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein. (r) The consolidated historical financial statements and schedules of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum present fairly the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of the dates and for the periods indicated, comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of Regulation S-X and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved (except as otherwise noted therein); the pro forma financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum include assumptions that provided a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the transactions and events described therein at the time such pro forma financial statements were prepared, the related pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to those assumptions, and the pro forma adjustments reflect the proper application of those adjustments to the historical financial statement amounts in the pro forma financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum; the pro forma financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum comply as to form in all material respects 5
with the applicable accounting requirements of Regulation S-X, except that the Company would be required to provide pro forma financial statements as of December 31, 2005 prior to the effectiveness of a Registration Statement, and the pro forma adjustments have been properly applied to the historical amounts in the compilation of those statements; and except for changes that are identified or otherwise contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum including changes in the Company's or Inamed Corporation's operating results or financial position since September 30, 2005 reflected in the historical financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, at such time as the pro forma financials are updated to reflect the pro forma financial statements as of December 31 2005, such updated pro forma financial statements will not, when considered as a whole, present a financial condition of the Company that is materially less favorable than the pro forma financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum. (s) No action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or its or their property is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened that (i) could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement, or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or (ii) could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). (t) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, the Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all properties and assets owned by each of them, free and clear of all mortgages, pledges, liens, charges, security interests, claims, encumbrances or restrictions of any kind, except such as are neither material in amount nor materially significant in relation to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise; all of the leases and subleases material to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, and under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds properties described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum are in full force and effect, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any written notice of any material claim of any sort that has been asserted by anyone adverse to the rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any of the leases or subleases mentioned above, or affecting or questioning the rights of the Company or any subsidiary thereof to the continued possession of the leased or subleased premises under any such lease or sublease. (u) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its charter, by-laws or other organizational documents or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries may be subject. 6
(v) Ernst & Young LLP ("E&Y"), who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and delivered their report with respect to the audited consolidated financial statements and schedules as of December 31, 2005 included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, are, to the best knowledge of the Company, after due inquiry, an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company. (w) KPMG LLP ("KPMG"), who have certified (i) certain financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and delivered their report with respect to the audited consolidated financial statements and schedules as of December 31, 2004 and (ii) certain financial statements of Inamed Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries and delivered their report with respect to the audited consolidated financial statements and schedules as of December 31, 2005, included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, are, to the best knowledge of the Company, after due inquiry, an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company. (x) There are no stamp or other issuance or transfer taxes or duties or other similar fees or charges required to be paid in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the issuance or sale by the Company of the Securities or, if issued on the date hereof, upon the issuance of Common Stock upon the conversion thereof. (y) The Company and each of its subsidiaries have filed all applicable tax returns required to have been filed by them and have paid all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by them (except where the requirement for payment of such taxes is being contested in good faith in appropriate proceedings), except where the failure so to file or pay would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. (z) Except for disputes that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, no labor dispute exists with the employees of the Company or with employees of any of its subsidiaries nor, to the best knowledge of the Company, is any such labor dispute imminent. (aa) The Company and each of its subsidiaries are insured by insurers of recognized financial responsibility against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are prudent and customary in the businesses in which they are engaged; neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has been refused any material insurance coverage sought or applied for; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect. (bb) No subsidiary of the Company is currently prohibited, directly or indirectly, from paying any dividends to the Company, from making any other distribution on such subsidiary's capital stock, from repaying to the Company any loans or advances to such subsidiary from the Company or from transferring any of such subsidiary's property or assets to the Company or any other subsidiary of the Company, except as described in or contemplated in 7
the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). (cc) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, the Company and its subsidiaries possess such licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations (collectively, the "Governmental Licenses") issued by all applicable regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the failure to possess such Governmental Licenses would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; all of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except where the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect would not have a Material Adverse Effect; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect. (dd) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain a system of effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. (ee) Except as disclosed in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Offering Memorandum, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. (ff) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain "disclosure controls and procedures" (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act); such disclosure controls and procedures are effective. (gg) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and except as such matters would not, singularly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to 8
the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products (collectively, "Hazardous Materials") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, "Environmental Laws"); (ii) the Company and its subsidiaries have all permits, authorizations and approvals required under any applicable Environmental Laws and are each in compliance with their requirements; and (iii) there are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigation or proceedings relating to any Environmental Law against the Company or any of its subsidiaries. (hh) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, the Company and its subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks, trade names or other intellectual property (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") necessary to carry on the business as now operated, or as proposed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum to be operated, by them (the "Company Business"), except where the failure to own such Intellectual Property would not be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth otherwise in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum: (a) neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries has received any written or oral notice by or on behalf of a claimant of any infringement or misappropriation of, or conflict with, any intellectual or proprietary rights of the claimant by the conduct of the Company Business by the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries, and which infringement, misappropriation or conflict (if the subject of any unfavorable decision, ruling or finding), singularly or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and the Company is not aware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; (b) there is no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's rights in or to any such material Intellectual Property or the validity or scope of any such material Intellectual Property, and the Company is not aware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; and (c) to the Company's knowledge, there is no material infringement or misappropriation by third parties of any of the Company's Intellectual Property. (ii) There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 relating to loans and Sections 302 and 906 relating to certifications. Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to each Initial Purchaser. 2. Purchase and Sale. 9
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Initial Purchaser, and each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of 98.25% of the principal amount thereof, the principal amount of Firm Securities set forth opposite such Initial Purchaser's name in Schedule I hereto. (b) Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company hereby grants an option to the several Initial Purchasers to purchase, severally and not jointly, the Option Securities at the same purchase price as the Initial Purchasers paid for the Firm Securities. The option may be exercised only to cover over-allotments (i.e. sales by the Initial Purchasers on the date hereof at the Issue Price listed on Schedule II hereto in excess of the allotted Firm Securities listed in Schedule II hereof) in the sale of the Firm Securities by the Initial Purchasers. The option may be exercised in whole or in part at any time and from time to time on or before the 30th day after the date of the Final Memorandum upon written or telegraphic notice by the Representatives to the Company setting forth the principal amount of Option Securities as to which the several Initial Purchasers are exercising the option and the settlement date. Delivery of the Option Securities, and payment therefor, shall be made as provided in Section 3 hereof. The principal amount of Option Securities to be purchased by each Initial Purchaser shall be the same percentage of the total principal amount of Option Securities to be purchased by the several Initial Purchasers as such Initial Purchaser is purchasing of the Firm Securities, subject to such adjustments as you in your absolute discretion shall make to eliminate any fractional Securities. 3. Delivery and Payment. (a) Delivery of and payment for the Firm Securities and the Option Securities (if the option provided for in Section 2(b) hereof shall have been exercised on or before the first Business Day immediately preceding the Closing Date) shall be made at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on April 12, 2006, which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Representatives and the Company or as provided in Section 9 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Initial Purchasers against payment by the several Initial Purchasers through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to the account specified by the Company. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct. (b) If the option provided for in Section 2(b) hereof is exercised after the first Business Day immediately following the Closing Date, the Company will deliver the Option Securities (at the expense of the Company) to the Representatives on the date specified by the Representatives (which shall be within three Business Days after exercise of said option) for the respective accounts of the several Initial Purchasers, against payment by the several Initial Purchasers through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to the account specified by the Company. If settlement for the Option Securities occurs after the Closing Date, the Company will deliver to the Representatives on the settlement date for the Option Securities, and the obligation of the 10
Initial Purchasers to purchase the Option Securities shall be conditioned upon receipt of, supplemental opinions, certificates and letters confirming as of such date the opinions, certificates and letters delivered on the Closing Date pursuant to Section 6 hereof. 4. Offering by Initial Purchasers. (a) Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges that the Securities and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof have not been and will not be registered under the Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons, except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Act. (b) Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and warrants to and agrees with the Company that: (i) it has not offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, any Securities to, or for the account or benefit of, any person (x) as part of their distribution at any time or (y) otherwise until one year after the later of the commencement of the offering and the date of closing of the offering except to those it reasonably believes to be "qualified institutional buyers" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Act) and except in accordance with Rule 144A; (ii) neither it nor any person acting on its behalf has made or will make offers or sales of the Securities in the United States by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in the United States; (iii) in connection with each sale pursuant to Section 4(b)(i), it has taken or will take reasonable steps to ensure that the purchaser of such Securities is aware that such sale is being made in reliance on Rule 144A; (iv) any information provided by the Initial Purchasers to publishers of publicly available databases about the terms of the Securities shall include a statement that the Securities have not been registered under the Act and are subject to restrictions under Rule 144A under the Act; (v) it acknowledges that additional restrictions on the offer and sale of the Securities and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof are described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum; (vi) it is an "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D); (vii) it is a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act); (viii) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated any invitation or inducement to engage 11
in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the FSMA) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of any Securities, in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "FSMA") does not apply to the Company; and (ix) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom. 5. Agreements. The Company agrees with each Initial Purchaser that: (a) The Company will furnish to each Initial Purchaser and to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, without charge, during the period referred to in Section 5(d) below, as many copies of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and any amendments and supplements thereto as they may reasonably request. (b) The Company will not amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum, other than by filing documents under the Exchange Act that are incorporated by reference therein, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, that, prior to the completion of the distribution of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers (as determined by the Initial Purchasers), the Company will not file any document under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum unless, prior to such proposed filing, the Company has furnished the Representatives with a copy of such document for their review and the Representatives have not reasonably objected to the filing of such document. The Company will promptly advise the Representatives when any document filed under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum shall have been filed with the Commission. (c) The Company will prepare a final term sheet, containing solely a description of final terms of the Securities and the offering thereof, in the form approved by you and attached as Schedule II hereto. (d) If at any time prior to the completion of the sale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers (as determined by the Representatives), any event occurs as a result of which the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, as then amended or supplemented, would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or in light of the circumstances then prevailing, not misleading, or if it should be necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum to comply with applicable law, the Company will promptly (i) notify the Representatives of any such event; (ii) subject to the requirements of Section 5(b), prepare an amendment or supplement that will correct such statement or omission or effect such compliance; and (iii) supply any supplemented or amended Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum to the several Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, without charge, in such quantities as they may reasonably request. 12
(e) Without the prior written consent of the Representatives, the Company has not given and will not give to any prospective purchaser of the Securities any written information concerning the offering of the Securities other than materials contained in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum or any other offering materials prepared by or with the prior written consent of the Representatives. (f) The Company will arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities for sale by the Initial Purchasers under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and will maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the sale of the Securities; provided that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not now so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the offering or sale of the Securities, in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject. The Company will promptly advise the Representatives of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose. (g) The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Affiliates to, resell any Securities or shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof that have been acquired by any of them. (h) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers) will, directly or indirectly, make offers or sales of any security, or solicit offers to buy any security, under circumstances that would require the registration of the Securities or Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof under the Act. (i) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers) will engage in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in connection with any offer or sale of the Securities in the United States. (j) So long as any of the Securities or the Common Stock issuable upon the conversion thereof are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Act the Company will, during any period in which it is not subject to and in compliance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, provide to each holder of such restricted securities and to each prospective purchaser (as designated by such holder) of such restricted securities, upon the request of such holder or prospective purchaser, any information required to be provided by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Act. This covenant is intended to be for the benefit of the holders, and the prospective purchasers designated by such holders, from time to time of such restricted securities. (k) Any information provided by the Company to publishers of publicly available databases about the terms of the Securities shall include a statement that the Securities have not been registered under the Act and are subject to restrictions under Rule 144A under the Act. 13
(l) The Company will cooperate with the Representatives and use its best efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company. (m) The Company will reserve and keep available at all times, for so long as any Securities are outstanding and convertible, free of pre-emptive rights, the full number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities. (n) The Company will not for a period of 90 days following the Execution Time, without the prior written consent Banc of America Securities and Citigroup, directly or indirectly, offer, sell or contract to sell, or otherwise dispose of (or enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition (whether by actual disposition or effective economic disposition due to cash settlement or otherwise) by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company or any person in privity with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company), or establish or increase a put equivalent position or liquidate or decrease a call equivalent position within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of, any shares of capital stock of the Company or any securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, shares of capital stock of the Company (other than the Securities), or publicly announce an intention to effect any such transaction; provided, however, that (i) the Company may issue and sell Common Stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock pursuant to any employee stock option plan, stock ownership plan, deferred compensation plan, stock bonus plan, dividend reinvestment plan or other arrangement described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum of the Company and in effect at the Execution Time, (ii) the Company may issue Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of securities or the exercise of options or warrants outstanding at the Execution Time, and (iii) the Company may issue and sell Common Stock or securities convertible into or exchangable for Common Stock in connection with acquisition or business combination transactions. (o) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that has constituted or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities. (p) The Company agrees to pay the costs and expenses relating to the following matters: (i) the preparation of the Registration Rights Agreement and the preparation, printing or reproduction of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and each amendment or supplement to either of them; (ii) the printing (or reproduction) and delivery (including postage, air freight charges and charges for counting and packaging) of such copies of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, and all amendments or supplements to either of them, as may, in each case, be reasonably requested for use in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities; (iii) the preparation, printing, authentication, issuance and delivery of certificates for the Securities; (iv) any stamp or transfer taxes in connection with the original issuance and sale of the Securities; (v) the printing (or reproduction) and delivery of this Agreement, any blue sky memorandum and all other agreements or documents printed (or reproduced) and delivered in connection with the offering of the Securities; (vi) any registration or qualification of the Securities for offer and sale 14
under the securities or blue sky laws of the several states, and any other jurisdictions specified pursuant to Section 5(f) (including filing fees and the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Initial Purchasers relating to such registration and qualification); (vii) the transportation and other expenses incurred by or on behalf of Company representatives in connection with presentations to prospective purchasers of the Securities; (viii) the fees and expenses of the Company's accountants and the fees and expenses of counsel (including local and special counsel) for the Company; and (ix) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance by the Company of their obligations hereunder. Except as provided in this Section 5(p) and Section 7, the Initial Purchasers shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel. (q) Between the date hereof and the Closing Date, the Company will not do or authorize any act or thing that would result in an adjustment of the conversion price. (r) The Company will, for a period of twelve months following the Execution Time, furnish to the Representatives upon request (i) all reports or other communications (financial or other) generally made available to stockholders, and deliver to the Representatives as soon as they are available, copies of any reports and financial statements furnished to or filed with the Commission or any securities exchange on which any class of securities of the Company is listed and (ii) such additional information concerning the business and financial condition of the Company as the Representatives may from time to time reasonably request (such statements to be on a consolidated basis to the extent the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries are consolidated in reports furnished to stockholders). (s) The Company will not take any action or omit to take any action (such as issuing any press release relating to any Securities without an appropriate legend) which may result in the loss by any of the Initial Purchases of the ability to rely on any stabilization safe harbor provided by the Financial Services Authority under the FSMA. (t) The Company will comply in all material respects with all applicable securities and other laws, rules, and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 6. Conditions to the Obligations of the Initial Purchasers. The obligations of the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Firm Securities and the Option Securities, as the case may be, shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein at the Execution Time, the Closing Date and any settlement date pursuant to Section 3 hereof, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions: (a) The Company shall have requested and caused Latham & Watkins, counsel for the Company, to furnish the Representatives its opinion, dated the Closing Date and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. 15
(b) The Representatives shall have received from Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Representatives, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum (as amended or supplemented at the Closing Date) and other related matters as the Representatives may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they reasonably request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters. (c) The Company shall have furnished to the Representatives a certificate of the Company, signed by (i) the President or the Chief Executive Officer and (ii) the principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have carefully examined the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, any amendments or supplements thereto, and this Agreement and that: (i) the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on the Closing Date, and the Company has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; and (ii) since the date of the most recent financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). (d) At the Execution Time, the Company shall have requested and caused E&Y to furnish to the Representatives a "comfort" letter, dated as of the Execution Time and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, and at the Closing Time, the Company shall have requested and caused E&Y to furnish to the Representatives a "bring-down comfort" letter, dated as of the Closing Date, reaffirming the statements made in the "comfort" letter, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Date. (e) At the Execution Time, the Company shall have requested and caused KPMG to furnish to the Representatives a "comfort" letter, dated as of the Execution Time and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, and at the Closing Time, the Company shall have requested and caused KPMG to furnish to the Representatives a "bring-down comfort" letter, dated as of the Closing Date, reaffirming the statements made in the "comfort" letter, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Date. 16
(f) At the Execution Time, the Company shall have requested and caused KPMG to furnish to the Representatives a "comfort" letter relating to Inamed Corporation, dated as of the Execution Time and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D, and at the Closing Time, the Company shall have requested and caused KPMG to furnish to the Representatives a "bring-down comfort" letter, dated as of the Closing Date, reaffirming the statements made in the "comfort" letter, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Date. (g) Subsequent to the Execution Time or, if earlier, the dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto) and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), there shall not have been any change in the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), the effect of which is, in the judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). (h) The Securities shall have been designated as PORTAL-eligible securities in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD and the Securities shall be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company. (i) Subsequent to the Execution Time, there shall not have been any decrease in the rating of any of the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the Act) or any notice given of any intended or potential decrease in any such rating or of a possible change in any such rating that does not indicate the direction of the possible change. (j) The Company shall have caused the shares of Common Stock initially issuable upon conversion of the Securities to be approved for listing, subject to issuance, on the New York Stock Exchange. (k) Prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives such further information, certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request. If any of the conditions specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled when and as provided in this Agreement, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, this Agreement and all obligations of the Initial Purchasers hereunder may be cancelled at, or at any time prior to, the Closing Date by the Representatives. Notice of such cancellation shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing. 17
The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 will be delivered at the office of counsel for the Initial Purchasers, at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, One Liberty Plaza, New York, New York 10006, on the Closing Date. 7. Reimbursement of Expenses. If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 6 hereof is not satisfied, because of any termination pursuant to Section 10 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Initial Purchasers, the Company will reimburse the Initial Purchasers severally through Citigroup Global Markets Inc. on demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities. 8. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, the directors and officers of each Initial Purchaser and each person who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other U.S. federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum, any Issuer Written Information or any other written information used by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities, or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Company may otherwise have. (b) Each Initial Purchaser severally, and not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Initial Purchaser, but only with reference to written information relating to such Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that any Initial Purchaser 18
may otherwise have. The Company acknowledges that (i) the statements set forth in the last paragraph of the cover page regarding delivery of the Securities and (ii), under the heading "Plan of Distribution," the fifth and eighth paragraphs and the fifth and sixth sentences of the seventh paragraph related to compliance by the Initial Purchasers with applicable laws, stabilization and syndicate covering transactions and market-making transactions in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers for inclusion in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto. (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel, other than local counsel if not appointed by the indemnifying party, retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); provided, however, that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. It is understood, however, that the Company shall, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of only one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) at any time for all such Initial Purchasers and controlling persons, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) 19
unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding. (d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 8 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company and the Initial Purchasers severally agree, in lieu of or supplemental to, respectively, indemnifying such indemnified party thereunder, to contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending any loss, claim, damage, liability or action) (collectively "Losses") to which the Company and one or more of the Initial Purchasers may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and by the Initial Purchasers on the other from the offering of the Securities; provided, however, that in no case shall any Initial Purchaser be responsible for any amount in excess of the purchase discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Initial Purchaser hereunder. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company and the Initial Purchasers severally shall contribute to the aggregate Losses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses, but after deducting total discounts and commissions received by the Initial Purchasers) received by it, and benefits received by the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total purchase discounts and commissions. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the Company on the one hand or the Initial Purchasers on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 8, each person who controls an Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director and officer of an Initial Purchaser shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each officer and director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d). 9. Default by an Initial Purchaser. If any one or more Initial Purchasers shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Initial Purchaser hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Initial Purchasers shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule I hereto bears to the aggregate principal 20
amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Initial Purchasers) the Securities which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase; provided, however, that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule I hereto, the remaining Initial Purchasers shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Initial Purchasers do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Initial Purchaser or the Company. In the event of a default by any Initial Purchaser as set forth in this Section 9, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the Representatives shall determine in order that the required changes in the Final Memorandum or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Initial Purchaser of its liability, if any, to the Company or any nondefaulting Initial Purchaser for damages occasioned by its default hereunder. 10. Termination. This Agreement shall be subject to termination by the Representatives by notice to the Company prior to delivery of, and payment for, the Securities, if at any time prior to such delivery and payment (i) trading in the Company's Common Stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such exchange; (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared either by U.S. federal or New York State authorities; or (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). 11. Representations and Indemnities to Survive. The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the Initial Purchasers set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or the Company or any of the indemnified persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 5(p), 7 and 8 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement. 12. Notices. All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to (i) the Citigroup General Counsel (fax no.: (212) 816-7912) and confirmed to Citigroup at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Attention: General Counsel, (ii) Banc of America Securities (fax no.: (646) 313-4803) and confirmed to it at 40 West 57th Street, NY1-040-27-01, New York, New York 10019, Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal, and (iii) Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, 29th Floor, New York, NY 10036 Attention: Investment Banking Department, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to (714) 246-6987 and confirmed to it at 2525 Dupont Drive, Irvine, California 92612, Attention: General Counsel. 21
13. Successors. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and, except as expressly set forth in Section 5(j) hereof, no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. 14. Integration. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. 15. Applicable Law. This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York. 16. Waiver of Jury Trial. The parties hereto hereby irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. 17. No Fiduciary Duty. The Company hereby acknowledges that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers and any affiliate through which they may be acting, on the other, (b) the Initial Purchasers are acting as principal and not as an agent or fiduciary of the Company and (c) the Company's engagement of the Initial Purchasers in connection with the offering and the process leading up to the offering is as independent contractors and not in any other capacity. Furthermore, the Company agrees that it is solely responsible for making its own judgments in connection with the offering (irrespective of whether any of the Initial Purchasers has advised or is currently advising the Company on related or other matters). The Company agrees that it will not claim that the Initial Purchasers have rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owe an agency, fiduciary or similar duty to the Company, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto. 18. Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 19. Headings. The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 20. Definitions. The terms which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated. "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Affiliate" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D. "Banc of America Securities" shall mean Banc of America Securities LLC. 22
"Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in The City of New York. "Citigroup" shall mean Citigroup Global Markets Inc. "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Memorandum, as amended or supplemented at the Execution Time, (ii) the final term sheet prepared pursuant to Section 5(c) hereto and in the form attached as Schedule II hereto and (iii) any Issuer Written Information. "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Execution Time" shall mean the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto. "Investment Company Act" shall mean the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Issuer Written Information" shall mean any writings in addition to the Preliminary Memorandum that the parties expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. "Morgan Stanley" shall mean Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated. "NASD" shall mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. "PORTAL" shall mean the Private Offerings, Resales and Trading through Automated Linkages system of the NASD. "Regulation D" shall mean Regulation D under the Act. "Regulation S-X" shall mean Regulation S-X under the Act. "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. 23
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement between the Company and the several Initial Purchasers. Very truly yours, Allergan, Inc. By: /s/ James M. Hindman ------------------------------------ Name: James M. Hindman ---------------------------------- Title: Senior Vice President, Treasury, --------------------------------- Risks and Investor Relations --------------------------------- The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written. Banc of America Securities LLC Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated By: Banc of America Securities LLC By: /s/ Derek Dillon --------------------------------- Name: Derek Dillon ------------------------------- Title: Managing Director ------------------------------ By: Citigroup Global Markets Inc. By: /s/ Henry H. Schwake --------------------------------- Name: Henry H. Schwake ------------------------------- Title: Director, Investment Banking ------------------------------ By: Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated By: /s/ Michael Fusco --------------------------------- Name: Michael Fusco ------------------------------- Title: Managing Director ------------------------------ 24
For themselves and the other several Initial Purchasers named in Schedule I to the foregoing Agreement. 25
SCHEDULE I S-1
SCHEDULE II ALLERGAN, INC. 1.50% CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTES DUE 2026
Issuer: Allergan, Inc. Title of securities: 1.50% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2026 Issue price: 100% Aggregate principal amount offered: $700 million (excluding option to purchase up to $50 million of additional notes to cover over-allotments) Net Proceeds: Approximately $685.1 million after deducting the initial purchasers' discount and Allergan's estimated expenses Allergan Sources and Use of Proceeds Information: Sources: Cash Approximately $675.8 million Gross proceeds of Ten Year Notes offered concurrently Approximately $797.7 million Uses. Repurchase of outstanding Allergan common stock Approximately $257.8 million Transaction costs (Inamed acquisition and financing transactions) Approximately $93.1 million Allergan Cash and Cash Equivalents, pro forma as adjusted: Approximately $727.2 million Maturity: April 1, 2026 Annual interest rate: 1.50% per annum, accruing from the settlement date Interest payment dates: Each April 1 and October 1, beginning October 1, 2006 Call dates: At any time on or after April 5, 2009, until April 4, 2011, we may redeem the notes, in whole or in part, for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, to but excluding the redemption date, if the Sale Price of the common stock is equal to or greater than 130% of the conversion price then in effect for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading day prior to the date of mailing of the notice of redemption. Beginning on April 5, 2011 at our option we may redeem all or part of the notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest, to but excluding the redemption date. Put dates: Holders may require the issuer to repurchase all or a portion of their notes on April 1, 2011, 2016 and 2021 Trade date: April 7, 2006 Registration. 144A with Registration Rights Conversion rate. 7.8952 shares of common stock per $1,000 aggregate principal amount of notes Conversion price: $126.66 (approx.) per share of common stock Settlement: April 12, 2006 Adjustment to conversion rate upon certain The following table sets forth the stock price, effective date and
S-2
Change of Control events on or prior to number of additional shares, subject to adjustment, to be issuable per April 1, 2011: $1,000 principal amount of notes. The maximum number of additional shares issuable per $1,000 of notes is 1.57:
STOCK PRICE This communication is intended for the sole use of the person to whom it is provided by the sender. These securities have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may only be sold to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A or pursuant to another applicable exemption. The information in this term sheet supplements Allergan's preliminary offering memorandum, dated April 5, 2006 ("the Preliminary Memorandum") and supercedes the information in the Preliminary Memorandum to the extent inconsistent with the information in the Preliminary Memorandum. This term sheet is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Preliminary Memorandum. Terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum. ANY DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES THAT MAY APPEAR BELOW ARE NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS COMMUNICATION AND SHOULD BE DISREGARDED. SUCH DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES WERE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AS A RESULT OF THIS COMMUNICATION BEING SENT VIA BLOOMBERG OR ANOTHER EMAIL SYSTEM. S-3
EXHIBIT A [Form of Latham & Watkins Opinion] A-1
EXHIBIT B [Form of E&Y Comfort Letter] B-1
EXHIBIT C [Form of KPMG Comfort Letter] C-1
EXHIBIT D [Form of KPMG Comfort Letter] D-1

Exhibit 10.2 ALLERGAN, INC. $800,000,000 5.75% Senior Notes Due 2016 Purchase Agreement April 6, 2006 Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated Banc of America Securities LLC Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Goldman, Sachs & Co. As Representatives of the Initial Purchasers c/o Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated 1585 Broadway New York, New York 10036 Ladies and Gentlemen: Allergan, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several parties named in Schedule I hereto (the "Initial Purchasers"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, $800,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.75% Senior Notes Due 2016 (the "Securities"). The Securities are to be issued under an indenture (the "Indenture"), to be dated as of the Closing Date, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Securities will have the benefit of a registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), to be dated as of the Closing Date, between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, pursuant to which the Company will agree to register the Securities under the Act subject to the terms and conditions therein specified. To the extent there are no additional parties listed on Schedule I other than you, the term Representatives as used herein shall mean you as the Initial Purchasers, and the terms Representatives and Initial Purchasers shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires. The use of the neuter in this Agreement shall include the feminine and masculine wherever appropriate. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 20 hereof. The sale of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers will be made without registration of the Securities under the Act in reliance upon exemptions from the registration requirements of the Act. In connection with the sale of the Securities, the Company has prepared a preliminary offering memorandum, dated April 5, 2006 (including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein, the "Preliminary Memorandum"), and will prepare and deliver to each Initial Purchaser on the date hereof or the next succeeding day, copies of a final offering memorandum, dated April 6, 2006 (as amended or supplemented at the Execution Time, including any and all exhibits thereto and any information incorporated by reference therein, the "Final Memorandum"). Each of the Preliminary Memorandum and the
Final Memorandum sets forth certain information concerning the Company and the Securities. The Company hereby confirms that it has authorized the use of the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Memorandum and Final Memorandum, and any amendment or supplement thereto, in connection with the offer and sale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers. Unless stated to the contrary, any references herein to the terms "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include any information filed under the Exchange Act subsequent to the Execution Time that is incorporated by reference therein. 1. Representations and Warranties. The Company represents and warrants to each Initial Purchaser as set forth below in this Section 1. (a) The Preliminary Memorandum, at the date thereof, did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Disclosure Package as of the Execution Time, does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. At the date thereof and on the Closing Date, the Final Memorandum will not (and any amendment or supplement thereto, at the date thereof and at the Closing Date, will not) contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation or warranty as to the information contained in or omitted from the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, or any amendment or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing to the Company by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof. (b) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than you, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has: (i) directly or indirectly, made offers or sales of any security, or solicited offers to buy, any security under circumstances that would require the registration of the Securities under the Act; or (ii) engaged in any directed selling efforts with respect to the Securities; and each of the Company, its Affiliates and each person acting on its or their behalf (other than you, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has complied with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S. Terms used in this paragraph have the meanings given to them by Regulation S. (c) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than you, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has engaged in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in connection with any offer or sale of the Securities in the United States. (d) The Securities satisfy the eligibility requirements of Rule 144A(d)(3) under the Act. 2
(e) The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum will not be, an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act. (f) The Company is subject to and in compliance with the reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Exchange Act. (g) For the six-month period preceding the Execution Time, and except in respect of its issuance of shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, in connection with the acquisition of Inamed Corporation, the Company has not paid or agreed to pay to any person any compensation for soliciting another to purchase any securities of the Company (except as contemplated in this Agreement). (h) The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or which has constituted or which might reasonably be expected to cause or result, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities. (i) Each of the Company and its subsidiaries has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation or limited liability company, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of incorporation or organization with full corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and to operate its respective properties and conduct its respective business as described in the Disclosure Package and Final Memorandum, and is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing under the laws of each jurisdiction that requires such qualification, except to the extent that such failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the assets, properties, business, results of operations or financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"). (j) All the issued capital stock or membership interests, as applicable, of each "significant subsidiary" (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X) of the Company (each, a "Significant Subsidiary") have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable, and, except as otherwise set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, and, in the case of Allergan Productos Farmaceutico S.A., except for a minimal number of shares held by persons under the control of the Company for the purposes of complying with local laws and regulations in such company's jurisdiction of organization, all outstanding shares of capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary is owned by the Company either directly or through wholly owned subsidiaries free and clear of any security interest, claim, lien or encumbrance. (k) The Company's capitalization is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum. (l) The statements in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum under the heading "Description of Notes" insofar as such statements purport to 3
summarize certain provisions of the Securities, are accurate descriptions or summaries in all material respects. (m) The statements in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum under the heading "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences" insofar as they purport to summarize certain provisions of the statutes or regulations referred to therein, are accurate summaries in all material respects. (n) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; the Indenture has been duly authorized and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee, when executed and delivered by the Company, will constitute a legal, valid and binding instrument, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms (subject, as to the enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity); the Securities have been duly authorized, and, when executed and authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Initial Purchasers, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee) will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms (subject, as to the enforcement of remedies, to applicable bankruptcy, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and to general principles of equity); and the Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by the Company. (o) No consent, approval, authorization, filing with or order of any court or governmental agency or body is required in connection with the transactions contemplated herein, in the Indenture or in the Registration Rights Agreement, except such as have already been obtained or as may be required under the Act or state securities laws, the securities laws of foreign jurisdictions or, with respect to the Registration Rights Agreement, the by-laws and rules of the NASD and the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, except for consents, approvals, authorizations, registrations or qualifications the lack of which would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein. (p) Subject to compliance by the Initial Purchasers with the representations, warranties and agreements set forth in Section 4 hereof, no registration under the Act of the Securities is required for the offer and sale of the Securities to or by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated herein and in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum. (q) Neither the execution and delivery of the Indenture, this Agreement or the Registration Rights Agreement, the issuance and sale of the Securities, nor the fulfillment of the terms hereof or thereof will conflict with, result in a breach or violation of or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, (i) the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its subsidiaries; (ii) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the 4
Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or bound or to which its or their property is subject; or (iii) any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, which violation or default would, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, either individually or in the aggregate with all other violations and defaults referred to in this paragraph (q) (if any), have (x) a Material Adverse Effect or (y) a material adverse effect upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein. (r) The consolidated historical financial statements and schedules of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum present fairly the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of the dates and for the periods indicated, comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of Regulation S-X and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved (except as otherwise noted therein); the pro forma financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum include assumptions that provided a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the transactions and events described therein at the time such pro forma financial statements were prepared, the related pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to those assumptions, and the pro forma adjustments reflect the proper application of those adjustments to the historical financial statement amounts in the pro forma financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum; the pro forma financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of Regulation S-X, except that the Company would be required to provide pro forma financial statements as of December 31, 2005 prior to the effectiveness of a Registration Statement, and the pro forma adjustments have been properly applied to the historical amounts in the compilation of those statements; and except for changes that are identified or otherwise contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum including changes in the Company's or Inamed Corporation's operating results or financial position since September 30, 2005 reflected in the historical financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, at such time as the pro forma financials are updated to reflect the pro forma financial statements as of December 31 2005, such updated pro forma financial statements will not, when considered as a whole, present a financial condition of the Company that is materially less favorable than the pro forma financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum. (s) No action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or its or their property is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened that (i) could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture or the Registration Rights Agreement, or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or (ii) could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth in or contemplated in the 5
Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). (t) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, the Company and its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all properties and assets owned by each of them, free and clear of all mortgages, pledges, liens, charges, security interests, claims, encumbrances or restrictions of any kind, except such as are neither material in amount nor materially significant in relation to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise; all of the leases and subleases material to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, and under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds properties described in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum are in full force and effect, and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any written notice of any material claim of any sort that has been asserted by anyone adverse to the rights of the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any of the leases or subleases mentioned above, or affecting or questioning the rights of the Company or any subsidiary thereof to the continued possession of the leased or subleased premises under any such lease or sublease. (u) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its charter, by-laws or other organizational documents or in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries may be subject. (v) Ernst & Young LLP ("E&Y"), who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and delivered their report with respect to the audited consolidated financial statements and schedules as of December 31, 2005 included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, are, to the best knowledge of the Company, after due inquiry, an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company. (w) KPMG LLP ("KPMG"), who have certified (i) certain financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and delivered their report with respect to the audited consolidated financial statements and schedules as of December 31, 2004 and (ii) certain financial statements of Inamed Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries and delivered their report with respect to the audited consolidated financial statements and schedules as of December 31, 2005, included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, are, to the best knowledge of the Company, after due inquiry, an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company. (x) There are no stamp or other issuance or transfer taxes or duties or other similar fees or charges required to be paid in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the issuance or sale by the Company of the Securities. 6
(y) The Company and each of its subsidiaries have filed all applicable tax returns required to have been filed by them and have paid all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by them (except where the requirement for payment of such taxes is being contested in good faith in appropriate proceedings), except where the failure so to file or pay would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. (z) Except for disputes that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, no labor dispute exists with the employees of the Company or with employees of any of its subsidiaries nor, to the best knowledge of the Company, is any such labor dispute imminent. (aa) The Company and each of its subsidiaries are insured by insurers of recognized financial responsibility against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are prudent and customary in the businesses in which they are engaged; neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has been refused any material insurance coverage sought or applied for; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect. (bb) No subsidiary of the Company is currently prohibited, directly or indirectly, from paying any dividends to the Company, from making any other distribution on such subsidiary's capital stock, from repaying to the Company any loans or advances to such subsidiary from the Company or from transferring any of such subsidiary's property or assets to the Company or any other subsidiary of the Company, except as described in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). (cc) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, the Company and its subsidiaries possess such licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations (collectively, the "Governmental Licenses") issued by all applicable regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except where the failure to possess such Governmental Licenses would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Governmental Licenses, except where the failure so to comply would not, singly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; all of the Governmental Licenses are valid and in full force and effect, except where the invalidity of such Governmental Licenses or the failure of such Governmental Licenses to be in full force and effect would not have a Material Adverse Effect; and neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such Governmental Licenses which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Effect. (dd) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain a system of effective internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to 7
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. (ee) Except as disclosed in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Final Offering Memorandum, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. (ff) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain "disclosure controls and procedures" (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act); such disclosure controls and procedures are effective. (gg) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and except as such matters would not, singularly or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, rule, regulation, ordinance, code, policy or rule of common law or any judicial or administrative interpretation thereof, including any judicial or administrative order, consent, decree or judgment, relating to pollution or protection of human health, the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products (collectively, "Hazardous Materials") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, "Environmental Laws"); (ii) the Company and its subsidiaries have all permits, authorizations and approvals required under any applicable Environmental Laws and are each in compliance with their requirements; and (iii) there are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigation or proceedings relating to any Environmental Law against the Company or any of its subsidiaries. (hh) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, the Company and its subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, adequate patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks, trade names or other intellectual property (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") necessary to carry on the business as now operated, or as proposed in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum to be operated, by them (the "Company Business"), except where the failure to own such Intellectual Property would not be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth otherwise in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum: (a) neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries has received any written or oral notice by or on behalf of a claimant of any 8
infringement or misappropriation of, or conflict with, any intellectual or proprietary rights of the claimant by the conduct of the Company Business by the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries, and which infringement, misappropriation or conflict (if the subject of any unfavorable decision, ruling or finding), singularly or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and the Company is not aware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; (b) there is no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's rights in or to any such material Intellectual Property or the validity or scope of any such material Intellectual Property, and the Company is not aware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; and (c) to the Company's knowledge, there is no material infringement or misappropriation by third parties of any of the Company's Intellectual Property. (ii) There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 relating to loans and Sections 302 and 906 relating to certifications. Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to each Initial Purchaser. 2. Purchase and Sale. Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Initial Purchaser, and each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of 99.067% of the principal amount thereof, the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Initial Purchaser's name in Schedule I hereto. 3. Delivery and Payment. Delivery of and payment for the Securities shall be made at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on April 12, 2006, which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Representatives and the Company or as provided in Section 9 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Initial Purchasers against payment by the several Initial Purchasers through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to the account specified by the Company. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct. 4. Offering by Initial Purchasers. (a) Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges that the Securities have not been and will not be registered under the Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons, except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Act. 9
(b) Each Initial Purchaser, severally and not jointly, represents and warrants to and agrees with the Company that: (i) it has not offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, any Securities within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (x) as part of their distribution at any time or (y) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering and the date of closing of the offering except: (A) to those it reasonably believes to be "qualified institutional buyers" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Act); (B) in accordance with Rule 903 of Regulation S; (ii) neither it nor any person acting on its behalf has made or will make offers or sales of the Securities in the United States by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in the United States; (iii) in connection with each sale pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(A), it has taken or will take reasonable steps to ensure that the purchaser of such Securities is aware that such sale is being made in reliance on Rule 144A; (iv) neither it, nor any of its Affiliates nor any person acting on its or their behalf has engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts (within the meaning of Regulation S) with respect to the Securities; (v) it and they have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S; (vi) at or prior to the confirmation of sale of Securities (other than a sale of Securities pursuant to Section 4(b)(i)(A) of the Agreement), it shall have sent to each distributor, dealer or person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration that purchases Securities from it during the distribution compliance period (within the meaning of Regulation S) a confirmation or notice to substantially the following effect; "The Securities covered hereby have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering and the date of closing of the offering, except in either case in accordance with Regulation S or Rule 144A under the Act. Terms used in this paragraph have the meanings given to them by Regulation S." (vii) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the FSMA) received by it in 10
connection with the issue or sale of any Securities, in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "FSMA") does not apply to the Company; and (viii) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom; (ix) it is an "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D); and (x) it is a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act). 5. Agreements. The Company agrees with each Initial Purchaser that: (a) The Company will furnish to each Initial Purchaser and to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, without charge, during the period referred to in Section 5(d) below, as many copies of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and any amendments and supplements thereto as they may reasonably request. (b) The Company will not amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum, other than by filing documents under the Exchange Act that are incorporated by reference therein, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld; provided, however, that, prior to the completion of the distribution of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers (as determined by the Initial Purchasers), the Company will not file any document under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum unless, prior to such proposed filing, the Company has furnished the Representatives with a copy of such document for their review and the Representatives have not reasonably objected to the filing of such document. The Company will promptly advise the Representatives when any document filed under the Exchange Act that is incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package or the Final Memorandum shall have been filed with the Commission. (c) The Company will prepare a final term sheet, containing solely a description of final terms of the Securities and the offering thereof, in the form approved by you and attached as Schedule II hereto. (d) If at any time prior to the completion of the sale of the Securities by the Initial Purchasers (as determined by the Representatives), any event occurs as a result of which the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, as then amended or supplemented, would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made or in light of the circumstances then prevailing, not misleading, or if it should be necessary to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum to comply with applicable law, the Company will promptly (i) notify the Representatives of any such event; (ii) subject to the requirements of Section 5(b), prepare an amendment or supplement that will correct such statement or omission or effect such compliance; and (iii) supply any supplemented or amended 11
Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum to the several Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, without charge, in such quantities as they may reasonably request. (e) Without the prior written consent of the Representatives, the Company has not given and will not give to any prospective purchaser of the Securities any written information concerning the offering of the Securities other than materials contained in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum or any other offering materials prepared by or with the prior written consent of the Representatives. (f) The Company will arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities for sale by the Initial Purchasers under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and will maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the sale of the Securities; provided that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not now so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the offering or sale of the Securities, in any jurisdiction where it is not now so subject. The Company will promptly advise the Representatives of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose. (g) The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Affiliates to, resell any Securities that have been acquired by any of them. (h) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers) will, directly or indirectly, make offers or sales of any security, or solicit offers to buy any security, under circumstances that would require the registration of the Securities under the Act. (i) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers) will engage in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D) in connection with any offer or sale of the Securities in the United States. (j) So long as any of the Securities are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Act the Company will, during any period in which it is not subject to and in compliance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, provide to each holder of such restricted securities and to each prospective purchaser (as designated by such holder) of such restricted securities, upon the request of such holder or prospective purchaser, any information required to be provided by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Act. This covenant is intended to be for the benefit of the holders, and the prospective purchasers designated by such holders, from time to time of such restricted securities. (k) None of the Company, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers) will engage in any directed selling efforts with respect to the Securities, and each of them will comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S. Terms used in this paragraph have the meaning given to them by Regulation S. 12
(l) The Company will cooperate with the Representatives and use its best efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company. (m) The Company will not for a period of 90 days following the Execution Time, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, directly or indirectly, offer, sell or contract to sell, or otherwise dispose of (or enter into any transaction which is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition (whether by actual disposition or effective economic disposition due to cash settlement or otherwise) by the Company or any Affiliate of the Company or any person in privity with the Company or any Affiliate of the Company), or announce the offering of, any debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company (other than the Securities and up to $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's [ ]% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026). (n) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that has constituted or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities. (o) The Company agrees to pay the costs and expenses relating to the following matters: (i) the preparation of the Registration Rights Agreement and the preparation, printing or reproduction of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum and each amendment or supplement to either of them; (ii) the printing (or reproduction) and delivery (including postage, air freight charges and charges for counting and packaging) of such copies of the materials contained in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, and all amendments or supplements to either of them, as may, in each case, be reasonably requested for use in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities; (iii) the preparation, printing, authentication, issuance and delivery of certificates for the Securities; (iv) any stamp or transfer taxes in connection with the original issuance and sale of the Securities; (v) the printing (or reproduction) and delivery of this Agreement, any blue sky memorandum and all other agreements or documents printed (or reproduced) and delivered in connection with the offering of the Securities; (vi) any registration or qualification of the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or blue sky laws of the several states, and any other jurisdictions specified pursuant to Section 5(f) (including filing fees and the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Initial Purchasers relating to such registration and qualification); (vii) the transportation and other expenses incurred by or on behalf of Company representatives in connection with presentations to prospective purchasers of the Securities; (viii) the fees and expenses of the Company's accountants and the fees and expenses of counsel (including local and special counsel) for the Company; and (ix) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance by the Company of their obligations hereunder. Except as provided in this Section 5(o) and Section 7, the Initial Purchasers shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel. (p) The Company will, for a period of twelve months following the Execution Time, furnish to the Representatives upon request (i) all reports or other communications (financial or other) generally made available to stockholders, and deliver to the Representatives as soon as they are available, copies of any reports and financial statements furnished to or filed 13
with the Commission or any securities exchange on which any class of securities of the Company is listed and (ii) such additional information concerning the business and financial condition of the Company as the Representatives may from time to time reasonably request (such statements to be on a consolidated basis to the extent the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries are consolidated in reports furnished to stockholders). (q) The Company will not take any action or omit to take any action (such as issuing any press release relating to any Securities without an appropriate legend) which may result in the loss by any of the Initial Purchases of the ability to rely on any stabilization safe harbor provided by the Financial Services Authority under the FSMA. (r) The Company will comply in all material respects with all applicable securities and other laws, rules, and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in all material respects with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 6. Conditions to the Obligations of the Initial Purchasers. The obligations of the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Securities shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein at the Execution Time and the Closing Date, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions: (a) The Company shall have requested and caused Latham & Watkins, counsel for the Company, to furnish the Representatives its opinion, dated the Closing Date and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. (b) The Representatives shall have received from Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Representatives, with respect to the issuance and sale of the Securities, the Indenture, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum (as amended or supplemented at the Closing Date) and other related matters as the Representatives may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they reasonably request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters. (c) The Company shall have furnished to the Representatives a certificate of the Company, signed by (i) the President or the Chief Executive Officer and (ii) the principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, dated the Closing Date, to the effect that the signers of such certificate have carefully examined the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum, any amendments or supplements thereto, and this Agreement and that: (i) the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on the Closing Date, and the Company has complied with all the agreements and 14
satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; and (ii) since the date of the most recent financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). (d) At the Execution Time, the Company shall have requested and caused E&Y to furnish to the Representatives a "comfort" letter, dated as of the Execution Time and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B, and at the Closing Time, the Company shall have requested and caused E&Y to furnish to the Representatives a "bring-down comfort" letter, dated as of the Closing Date, reaffirming the statements made in the "comfort" letter, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Date. (e) At the Execution Time, the Company shall have requested and caused KPMG to furnish to the Representatives a "comfort" letter, dated as of the Execution Time and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, and at the Closing Time, the Company shall have requested and caused KPMG to furnish to the Representatives a "bring-down comfort" letter, dated as of the Closing Date, reaffirming the statements made in the "comfort" letter, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Date. (f) At the Execution Time, the Company shall have requested and caused KPMG to furnish to the Representatives a "comfort" letter relating to Inamed Corporation, dated as of the Execution Time and substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D, and at the Closing Time, the Company shall have requested and caused KPMG to furnish to the Representatives a "bring-down comfort" letter, dated as of the Closing Date, reaffirming the statements made in the "comfort" letter, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to the Closing Date. (g) Subsequent to the Execution Time or, if earlier, the dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto) and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), there shall not have been any change in the condition (financial or otherwise), prospects, earnings, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto), the effect of which is, in the judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). 15
(h) Subsequent to the Execution Time, there shall not have been any decrease in the rating of any of the Company's debt securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the Act) or any notice given of any intended or potential decrease in any such rating or of a possible change in any such rating that does not indicate the direction of the possible change. (i) Prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives such further information, certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request. If any of the conditions specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled when and as provided in this Agreement, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Initial Purchasers, this Agreement and all obligations of the Initial Purchasers hereunder may be cancelled at, or at any time prior to, the Closing Date by the Representatives. Notice of such cancellation shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing. The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 will be delivered at the office of counsel for the Initial Purchasers, at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, One Liberty Plaza, New York, New York 10006, on the Closing Date. 7. Reimbursement of Expenses. If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 6 hereof is not satisfied, because of any termination pursuant to Section 10 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Initial Purchasers, the Company will reimburse the Initial Purchasers severally through Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated on demand for all out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities. 8. Indemnification and Contribution. (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, the directors and officers of each Initial Purchaser and each person who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other U.S. federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Disclosure Package, the Final Memorandum, any Issuer Written Information or any other written information used by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the offer or sale of the Securities, or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such 16
indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by it in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Company may otherwise have. (b) Each Initial Purchaser severally, and not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Initial Purchaser, but only with reference to written information relating to such Initial Purchaser furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Initial Purchaser through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that any Initial Purchaser may otherwise have. The Company acknowledges that (i) the statements set forth in the last paragraph of the cover page regarding delivery of the Securities and (ii), under the heading "Plan of Distribution," the tenth paragraph and the third and fourth sentences of the ninth paragraph related to stabilization and syndicate covering transactions and market-making transactions in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers for inclusion in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum or in any amendment or supplement thereto. (c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel, other than local counsel if not appointed by the indemnifying party, retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); provided, however, that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. It is understood, however, that the Company shall, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of only one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to any local counsel) at any time for all such Initial Purchasers and controlling persons, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel 17
(including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding. (d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 8 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company and the Initial Purchasers severally agree, in lieu of or supplemental to, respectively, indemnifying such indemnified party thereunder, to contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending any loss, claim, damage, liability or action) (collectively "Losses") to which the Company and one or more of the Initial Purchasers may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and by the Initial Purchasers on the other from the offering of the Securities; provided, however, that in no case shall any Initial Purchaser be responsible for any amount in excess of the purchase discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Initial Purchaser hereunder. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company and the Initial Purchasers severally shall contribute to the aggregate Losses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses, but after deducting total discounts and commissions received by the Initial Purchasers) received by it, and benefits received by the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total purchase discounts and commissions. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the Company on the one hand or the Initial Purchasers on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable 18
considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 8, each person who controls an Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director and officer of an Initial Purchaser shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each officer and director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d). 9. Default by an Initial Purchaser. If any one or more Initial Purchasers shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Initial Purchaser hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Initial Purchasers shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule I hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Initial Purchasers) the Securities which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase; provided, however, that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule I hereto, the remaining Initial Purchasers shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Initial Purchasers do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Initial Purchaser or the Company. In the event of a default by any Initial Purchaser as set forth in this Section 9, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the Representatives shall determine in order that the required changes in the Final Memorandum or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Initial Purchaser of its liability, if any, to the Company or any nondefaulting Initial Purchaser for damages occasioned by its default hereunder. 10. Termination. This Agreement shall be subject to termination by the Representatives by notice to the Company prior to delivery of, and payment for, the Securities, if at any time prior to such delivery and payment (i) trading in the Company's common stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such exchange; (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared either by U.S. federal or New York State authorities; or (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or other calamity or crisis the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Final Memorandum (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). 11. Representations and Indemnities to Survive. The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and 19
of the Initial Purchasers set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or the Company or any of the indemnified persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 5(o), 7 and 8 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement. 12. Notices. All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to (i) the Citigroup General Counsel (fax no.: (212) 816-7912) and confirmed to Citigroup at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Attention: General Counsel, (ii) Banc of America Securities (fax no.: (646) 313-4803) and confirmed to it at 40 West 57th Street, NY1-040-27-01, New York, New York 10019, Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal, (iii) Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, 29th Floor, New York, NY 10036 Attention: Investment Banking Department, and (iv) Goldman, Sachs & Co., 85 Broad Street New York, New York 10004, Attention: Thomas Crahan, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to (714) 246-6987 and confirmed to it at 2525 Dupont Drive, Irvine, California 92612, Attention: General Counsel. 13. Successors. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the indemnified persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and, except as expressly set forth in Section 5(h) hereof, no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. 14. Integration. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof. 15. Applicable Law. This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York. 16. Waiver of Jury Trial. The parties hereto hereby irrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. 17. No Fiduciary Duty. The Company hereby acknowledges that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers and any affiliate through which they may be acting, on the other, (b) the Initial Purchasers are acting as principal and not as an agent or fiduciary of the Company and (c) the Company's engagement of the Initial Purchasers in connection with the offering and the process leading up to the offering is as independent contractors and not in any other capacity. Furthermore, the Company agrees that it is solely responsible for making its own judgments in connection with the offering (irrespective of whether any of the Initial Purchasers has advised or is currently advising the Company on related or other matters). The Company agrees that it will not claim that the Initial Purchasers have rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owe an agency, fiduciary or similar duty to the Company, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto. 20
18. Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 19. Headings. The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 20. Definitions. The terms which follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated. "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Affiliate" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D. "Banc of America Securities" shall mean Banc of America Securities LLC. "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in The City of New York. "Citigroup" shall mean Citigroup Global Markets Inc. "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Memorandum, as amended or supplemented at the Execution Time, (ii) the final term sheet prepared pursuant to Section 5(c) hereto and in the form attached as Schedule II hereto and (iii) any Issuer Written Information. "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Execution Time" shall mean the date and time that this Agreement is executed and delivered by the parties hereto. "Investment Company Act" shall mean the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. "Issuer Written Information" shall mean any writings in addition to the Preliminary Memorandum that the parties expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. "Morgan Stanley" shall mean Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated. "NASD" shall mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. "Regulation D" shall mean Regulation D under the Act. "Regulation S" shall mean Regulation S under the Act. 21
"Regulation S-X" shall mean Regulation S-X under the Act. "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. 22
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement between the Company and the several Initial Purchasers. Very truly yours, Allergan, Inc. By: /s/ James M. Hindman ------------------------------------ Name: James M. Hindman ---------------------------------- Title: Senior Vice President, Treasury, --------------------------------- Risk and Investor Relations --------------------------------- The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated Banc of America Securities LLC Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Goldman, Sachs & Co. By: Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated By: /s/ Michael Fusco ------------------------------------ Name: Michael Fusco ---------------------------------- Title: Executive Director --------------------------------- By: Banc of America Securities LLC By: /s/ Peter J. Carbone ------------------------------------ Name: Peter J. Carbone ---------------------------------- Title: Vice President --------------------------------- By: Citigroup Global Markets Inc. By: /s/ Brian Bednowski ------------------------------------ Name: Brian Bednowski ---------------------------------- Title: Director --------------------------------- 23
By: Goldman, Sachs & Co. By: /s/ Goldman, Sachs & Co. ------------------------------------ (Goldman, Sachs & Co.) For themselves and the other several Initial Purchasers named in Schedule I to the foregoing Agreement. 24
SCHEDULE I S-1
SCHEDULE II **APPROVED FOR EXTERNAL USE** ~ $800,000,000 144A and Regulation S Senior Notes Due 2016 Pricing ~ ALLERGAN, INC. (AGN/NYSE) GROSS PROCEEDS: $797,736,000 ISSUER: Allergan, Inc. TICKER/EXCHANGE: AGN/NYSE OFFERING SIZE: $800,000,000 NET PROCEEDS: Approximately $790.5 million after deducting the initial purchasers' discount and Allergan's estimated expenses SOURCES OF PROCEEDS FOR ALLERGAN INTENDED USES: Cash: Approximately $675.8 million Gross proceeds of notes: Approximately $797.7 million USE OF PROCEEDS: Repurchase of outstanding Allergan common stock: Approximately $257.8 million Transaction Costs (Inamed acquisition and Financing Transactions: Approximately $93.1 million Allergan Cash and Cash Equivalents, pro forma as adjusted: Approximately $727.2 million PRICING TERMS: ISSUE PRICE: $997.17 PRINCIPAL AMOUNT PER NOTE: $1,000 MATURITY: April 1,2016 COUPON RATE: 5.75% per annum YIELD TO MATURITY: 5.788% REDEMPTION AT THE OPTION OF ALLERGAN: Allergan may redeem the notes, in whole or in part at any time and from time to time, for cash at a redemption price equal to the greater of: (1)100% of the principal amount of notes to be redeemed, and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments on such notes discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable treasury rate plus 15 basis points. S-2
INTEREST PAY DATES: 4/1 & 10/1 beginning 10/1/06 PUT DATES: None REGISTRATION: 144A and Regulation S with Registration Rights TRADE DATE: 4/6/06 SETTLEMENT DATE: 4/12/06 144A CUSIP: 018490 AJ 1 REGULATION S CUSIP: U01777 AB 4 JOINT BOOK-RUNNING MANAGERS: MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. AND GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. YOU SHOULD RELY ONLY ON THE INFORMATION CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THE PRELIMINARY OFFERING MEMORANDUM DATED APRIL 5, 2006, AS SUPPLEMENTED BY THIS FINAL PRICING TERM SHEET IN MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION WITH RESPECT TO THESE SECURITIES. **APPROVED FOR EXTERNAL USE** This communication is intended for the sole use of the person to whom it is provided by us A written offering memorandum may be obtained from your Morgan Stanley sales representative, from Morgan Stanley & Co Incorporated, 180 Varick Street, New York, NY 10014 The information in this term sheet supplements Allergan's preliminary offering memorandum, dated April 5, 2006 ("the Preliminary Memorandum") and supercedes the information in the Preliminary Memorandum to the extent inconsistent with the information in the Preliminary Memorandum. This term sheet is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Preliminary Memorandum. Terms used herein but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum. These notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States or under any state securities laws absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. For details about eligible offers, deemed representations and agreement by investors and transfer restrictions, see "Transfer Restrictions" in the Preliminary Memorandum. ANY DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES THAT MAY APPEAR BELOW ARE NOT APPLICABLE TO THIS COMMUNICATION AND SHOULD BE DISREGARDED. SUCH DISCLAIMERS OR OTHER NOTICES WERE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED AS A RESULT OF THIS COMMUNICATION BEING SENT VIA BLOOMBERG OR ANOTHER EMAIL SYSTEM. S-3
EXHIBIT A [Form of Latham & Watkins Opinion] A-1
EXHIBIT B [Form of E&Y Comfort Letter] B-1
EXHIBIT C [Form of KPMG Comfort Letter] C-1
EXHIBIT D [Form of KPMG Comfort Letter] D-1


