FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20060203170104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Compensation of Officers
     At its meeting on January 30, 2006, the Organization and Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Allergan, Inc. (the "Company") completed its annual performance and compensation review of the Company's executive officers and approved the 2006 base salaries of the Company's executive officers. The Compensation Committee also approved the performance objectives and the corresponding annual incentive awards for the executive officers and other management under the 2006 management bonus plan (the "Management Bonus Plan"), as more fully described below. The Board, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee and subject to stockholder approval at the Company's 2006 annual meeting of stockholders (the "Annual Meeting"), approved a new 2006 Executive Bonus Plan for the Chief Executive Officer and the President (the "2006 Executive Bonus Plan), as more fully described below.
     
2006 Annual Base Salary
     The Compensation Committee approved the fiscal year 2006 annual base salaries for the Chief Executive Officer and the four next most highly compensated executive officers of the Company (the "Named Executive Officers"), effective on February 6, 2006, as follows:
     
2006 Management Bonus Plan
     The Compensation Committee established performance objectives for the payment of annual incentive awards to the Named Executive Officers other than the Chief Executive Officer and the President ("Senior Executive Participants") under the Management Bonus Plan for fiscal year 2006. Under the Management Bonus Plan, if the Company achieves a specified adjusted earnings per share target for fiscal 2006, the Company will fund a bonus pool to be paid to the Senior Executive Participants and other eligible executives and managers of the Company. The size of the bonus pool will be determined by the Company's financial performance, including its adjusted earnings per share, revenue growth and research and development reinvestment rate. For 2006, Management Bonus Plan target bonuses for the Senior Executive Participants range between 60% and 70% of the Senior Executive Participant's year-end annualized base salary. Each Senior Executive Participant's actual bonus award may be from 0% to 160% of his target bonus based on his and the Company's performance. Therefore, actual bonuses under the Management Bonus Plan may be up to 112% of each Senior Executive Participant's year-end annualized base salary.
Table of Contents
     For fiscal year 2006, the pre-established objectives that determine the bonus for each Senior Executive Participant include: (i) the Company's adjusted earnings per share; (ii) pharmaceutical sales revenue growth in local currency; (iii) the research and development reinvestment rate; (iv) operating income by business unit; and (v) other management bonus objectives pre-established by each Senior Executive Participant and their supervisor.
     
2006 Executive Bonus Plan
     On January 30, 2006, following the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board approved the adoption of the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan, subject to approval by the Company's stockholders at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders. The 2006 Executive Bonus Plan permits the payment of yearly bonuses based upon pre-established performance criteria for each plan year. The Company plans to seek stockholder approval of the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan to enable it to meet the tax deductibility requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). If the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan is not approved by stockholders, bonus targets under the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan set by the Compensation Committee at their January 30, 2006 meeting will be null and void. Participation in the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan is limited to the Chief Executive Officer and the President of the Company.
     The Compensation Committee may, in its discretion, establish the specific performance objectives (including any adjustments) that must be achieved in order for the Chief Executive Officer and/or the President to become eligible to receive a bonus award payment. The performance objectives (including any adjustments) will be established in writing by the Compensation Committee within the earlier of (i) 90 days of the beginning of the fiscal year or (ii) the first 25% of the period of service in which the performance objectives are to be achieved. In addition, the achievement of such objectives must be substantially uncertain at the time such objectives are established in writing. For each calendar year with regard to which one or more eligible participants in the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan is selected by the Compensation Committee to receive a bonus award, the Compensation Committee will establish in writing one or more objectively determinable performance objectives for such bonus award, based upon one or more of the following business criteria, any of which may be measured in absolute terms, as compared to any incremental increase or as compared to the results of a peer group:
Performance Objectives.
Table of Contents
     The performance objectives may be expressed in terms of overall Company performance or the performance of a division or business unit. The Compensation Committee, in its discretion, may also specify additional performance objectives for each bonus award granted under the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan. Following the end of the year in which the performance objectives are to be achieved, the Compensation Committee will, within the time prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code, determine whether and to what extent the specified performance objective has been achieved for the applicable year.
     The Compensation Committee, in its discretion, may, at the time of grant, specify in the bonus award that one or more objectively determinable adjustments will be made to one or more of the performance objectives established under the criteria discussed above.
     If the performance objectives are met, the Chief Executive Officer and the President will receive a bonus award based on a percentage of such officer's year-end annualized base salary. The maximum bonus payment that either the Chief Executive Officer or the President may receive under the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan is $5,000,000. The 2006 Executive Bonus Plan, however, is not the exclusive means for the Compensation Committee to award incentive compensation to the Chief Executive Officer or the President and does not limit the Compensation Committee from making additional discretionary incentive awards.
Maximum Award.
     . The Chief Executive Officer's or the President's bonus award may be paid, at the option of the Compensation Committee, in cash or in the Company's common stock, or in any combination of cash and the Company's common stock. Bonus award payments made in the Company's common stock will be made in accordance with the provisions of the Company's 1989 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.
Form of Payment
     . The Compensation Committee, in its discretion, may reduce or eliminate the bonus amount otherwise payable to the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
Negative Discretion
     . If either the Chief Executive Officer's or the President's employment is terminated with the Company except as part of a change of control (as defined in the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan, a "Change of Control") for any reason other than death or disability prior to payment of any bonus award payment, all of such participant's rights under the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan will terminate and such participant will not have any right to receive any further payments under the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan. The Compensation Committee may, in its discretion, determine what portion, if any, of the Chief Executive Officer's or the President's bonus award under the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan should be paid if the termination results from such participant's death or disability.
Termination of Employment
     If a Change of Control occurs during any year in which the Chief Executive Officer and/or the President are eligible to receive a bonus award under the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan, such bonus award will be prorated to the effective date of the Change of Control and all performance objectives set by the Compensation Committee will be deemed to be met at the greater of 100% of the performance objective or the Company's actual prorated year-to date performance provided that the recipient of the bonus award continues to be employed by the Company or its successor on the effective date of the Change of Control.
Change of Control.
Table of Contents
     
2006 Executive Bonus Plan Performance Objectives and Target Bonus Amount
     For fiscal 2006, the Compensation Committee has established performance objectives that will determine the size of bonuses paid to each of the Chief Executive Officer and the President under the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan consisting of: (i) attainment of a target 2006 adjusted earnings per share; (ii) 2006 revenue growth adjusted for the translation effect of changes in foreign exchange rates and excluding the Company's Botox product net sales reported by the Company's Japan subsidiary for 2005, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percent; and (iii) the 2006 research and development reinvestment rate (the "Performance Objectives").
     The Company's Chief Executive Officer's target bonus is 120% of his year-end annualized base salary. The actual bonus award paid will be from 0% to 160% of the target bonus based on the Company's relative attainment of the Performance Objectives. Therefore, the Chief Executive Officer has the opportunity to earn a bonus of up to 192% of his year-end annualized base salary based on the Company's performance. For fiscal 2006, the President's target bonus is 70% of his year-end annualized base salary. The actual bonus paid will be from 0% to 160% of the target bonus based on the Company's relative attainment of the Performance Objectives. Therefore, the President has the opportunity to earn a bonus of up to 112% of his year-end annualized base salary based on the Company's performance. Bonuses will be paid in cash up to a maximum bonus pool equal to 100% of the Chief Executive Officer's and President's bonus targets. Bonuses will be paid in restricted stock and restricted stock units to the extent the bonus pool exceeds 100% of the Chief Executive Officer's and President's bonus targets. Such restricted stock or restricted stock units will provide for cliff vesting two years from the award effective date. Any payment in the form of restricted stock or restricted stock units will be issued under the Company's 1989 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.
     For either the Chief Executive Officer or the President to receive a bonus under the 2006 Executive Bonus Plan, the Company's 2006 adjusted earnings per share must be greater than adjusted earnings per share set by the Compensation Committee at their January 30, 2006 meeting. "2006 adjusted earnings per share" means the Company's 2006 Adjusted Net Earnings (as defined below) divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding on a diluted basis during 2006, rounded to the nearest penny. "2006 Adjusted Net Earnings" means the Company's net earnings from continuing operations for the 2006 fiscal year, adjusted to remove the effects of certain specified events or items.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On February 2, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing that F. Michael Ball, 50, was promoted to President of the Company effective on February 1, 2006. Mr. Ball has served as Executive Vice President and President, Pharmaceuticals division since October 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Ball was Corporate Vice President and President, North America Region and Global Eye Rx Business since May 1998 and prior to that was Corporate Vice President and President, North America Region since April 1996. He joined the Company in 1995 as Senior Vice President, U.S. Eye Care after 12 years with Syntex Corporation, where he held a variety of positions including President, Syntex Inc. Canada and Senior Vice President, Syntex Laboratories.
     Mr. Ball will report to David E.I. Pyott, who will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Pyott has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since January 1998.
Table of Contents
     The Company also announced in the February 2, 2006 press release that Raymond Diradoorian, 48, was promoted to Executive Vice President, Global Technical Operations effective February 1, 2006. For the past 25 years, Mr. Diradoorian has managed the Company's global manufacturing, engineering and operations areas, including acting as a Senior Vice President of Global Technical Operations beginning in April 2005, as a Vice President of Global Engineering and Technology beginning in February 2001 and Vice President of Operations beginning in March 1997.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, California, February 2, 2006)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced that F. Michael Ball assumed the position of President, Allergan effective February 1, 2006. Additionally, Allergan announced the appointment of Raymond Diradoorian to Executive Vice President, Global Technical Operations. With the appointment of Mr. Ball to President, David E.I. Pyott will maintain his position as Allergan's Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board.
Mr. Ball has served as Allergan's Executive Vice President and President, Pharmaceuticals since 2003. In this role, Mr. Ball was instrumental in the successful reorganization and management of Allergan's global commercial operations. Mr. Ball joined Allergan in 1995 and has held positions of increasing responsibility, including Corporate Vice President and President North America. Mr. Ball has been a member of Allergan's Executive Committee since 1996. Prior to joining Allergan, Mr. Ball was at Syntex Laboratories USA, where he held various senior level positions in the marketing, sales and managed care functions.
"During his ten years at Allergan, Mike has been a tremendous asset to the organization, helping to build new product franchises and to achieve market leadership positions and vigorous growth across all businesses worldwide," said Mr. Pyott. "His demonstrated ability to increase our efficiency and effectiveness through concentration of our commercial efforts on key products and to lead significant structural changes in our operational model has contributed greatly to Allergan's strong performance. In his new role, Mike will take on responsibility for the integration of Inamed as well as continuing to drive focus within our specialty franchises to further increase our overall growth and profitability."
Mr. Diradoorian joined Allergan in 1981 and has a 25-year proven track record of successfully managing the company's global manufacturing, engineering and operations areas. In 2005, Mr. Diradoorian was appointed as Allergan's Senior Vice President, Global Technical Operations, where he was responsible for the global network of manufacturing plants, Quality Assurance, Environmental Health and Safety and various other operational functions. In addition to his new role as Executive Vice President, Global Technical Operations, Mr. Diradoorian has been elected to Allergan's Executive Committee.
"Ray's promotion and his election to Allergan's Executive Committee reflect his broad technical and leadership skills and he has already made a significant contribution to Allergan since his appointment in 2005," said Mr. Pyott.
 
About Allergan, Inc.
Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a technology-driven, global health care company providing specialty pharmaceutical products worldwide. Allergan develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements", including the statements by Mr. Pyott, statements regarding research and development outcomes, efficacy, and market and product potential. These statements are based on current expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from Allergan's expectations and projections. Risks and uncertainties include general industry and pharmaceutical market conditions; general domestic and international economic conditions, such as interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product marketing such as the unpredictability of market acceptance for new pharmaceutical and biologic products and/or acceptance of new indications for such products; potential difficulties in manufacturing a new product formulation; domestic and foreign health care reforms; the timing and uncertainty of the research and development and regulatory processes; trends toward managed care and health care cost containment; and governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2004 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available on the World Wide Web at or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 1-714-246-4636.
www.allergan.com
Allergan Contacts:
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Ashwin Agarwal (714) 246-4582 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)


