FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20070801092610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On August 1, 2007, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the second quarter ended June 29, 2007. In its press release, Allergan included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On July 30, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Allergan approved and adopted the Fourth Amendment (the "Amendment") to Allergan's Bylaws (as amended, the "Bylaws"). Article III, Section 4 of the Bylaws was amended to provide that directors may submit resignation notices by electronic transmission. Article III, Section 11 of the Bylaws was amended to provide that the Board and its committees may act without a meeting by unanimous consent given by electronic transmission. The effective date of the Amendment is July 30, 2007.
     The foregoing description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 3.1
The ALLERGAN, INC. BYLAWS (the "Bylaws") are hereby amended as follows:
     1. Article III, Section 4 of the Bylaws is amended in its entirety as follows:
     SECTION 4. . Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time upon notice given in writing or by electronic transmission to the Board or to the Secretary of the Corporation. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or, if the time be not specified, it shall take effect immediately upon receipt; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
     2. Article III, Section 11 of the Bylaws is amended in its entirely as follows:
     SECTION 11. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if consent in writing or by electronic transmission is given thereto by all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, and such consent, electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or of such committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
Action by Consent
     3. The effective date of this Fourth Amendment shall be July 30, 2007.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Allergan, Inc. hereby executes this Fourth Amendment on the 31st day of July, 2007.
ALLERGAN, INC.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     
(IRVINE, Calif., August 1, 2007)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the quarter ended June 29, 2007. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a second quarter dividend of $0.05 per share, payable on September 7, 2007 to stockholders of record on August 17, 2007.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended June 29, 2007:
Product Sales
For the quarter ended June 29, 2007:
 
2-2-2
Product and Pipeline Update
During the second quarter of 2007:
On June 22, 2007, Allergan completed a two-for-one stock split of Allergan's common stock. The stock split was structured in the form of a 100% stock dividend and was paid to stockholders of record on June 11, 2007.
Other Company Events
Outlook
For the full year of 2007:
 
3-3-3
For the third quarter of 2007, Allergan estimates:
All references in this news release to average number of shares outstanding and per share amounts have been retrospectively revised to reflect the two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a stock dividend payable on June 22, 2007 to stockholders of record on June 11, 2007.
In this press release, the statements regarding product development, market potential, expected growth, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Forward-Looking Statements
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms, including government pricing and reimbursement policies; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
 
4-4-4
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2006 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 2007. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
With more than 55 years of experience providing high-quality, science-based products, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, discovers, develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics, obesity intervention and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
About Allergan, Inc.
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
Allergan Contacts
Marks owned by Allergan, Inc. JUVEDERM Mark owned by Corneal Industrie SAS ACULAR is a registered trademark of Roche Palo Alto, LLC
 
5-5-5
 
6-6-6
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and six months ended June 29, 2007 and June 30, 2006 and with respect to anticipated results for the third quarter and full year of 2007. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors regarding its operational performance because it enhances an investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities by providing a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between current, past and future periods. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of Allergan's business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses adjusted earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure Allergan's performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
Despite the importance of adjusted earnings in analyzing Allergan's underlying business, the budgeting and forecasting process and designing incentive compensation, adjusted earnings has no standardized meaning defined by GAAP. Therefore, adjusted earnings has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of Allergan's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Allergan compensates for these limitations by using adjusted earnings only to supplement net income (loss) on a basis prepared in conformance with GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting its business. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both net earnings (loss) and cash flows determined under GAAP as compared to adjusted earnings, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate.
 
7-7-7
 
8-8-8
 
9-9-9
 
10-10-10
 
11-11-11
 
12-12-12
 
13-13-13


