FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20071206170044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") announced that on December 3, 2007, Dawn Hudson was appointed to Allergan's Board of Directors (the "Board"), effective January 28, 2008. Ms. Hudson will serve as a Class III director and her term on the Board will expire at Allergan's 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. Ms. Hudson will initially serve as a member of the Audit and Finance Committee and the Organization and Compensation Committee of the Board.
     For her Board service, Ms. Hudson will receive an annual cash retainer of $40,000 (beginning upon her appointment to the Board), $2,000 for each Board meeting attended and $1,000 for each Board committee meeting attended. Ms. Hudson will participate in the Allergan, Inc. 2003 Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Plan (the "Director Plan") and, effective at Allergan's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, will receive a grant of 14,400 shares of restricted stock, which restricted stock shall vest at a rate of 4,800 shares per year for the remainder of Ms. Hudson's term on the Board. Under the Director Plan, Ms. Hudson will also receive an option to purchase 11,400 shares of Allergan common stock on the date of Allergan's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, with a per share exercise price equal to the fair market value of a share of Allergan common stock on the date of grant. In addition, Ms. Hudson will be eligible to participate in the Deferred Directors' Fee Program, which permits Allergan's directors to defer all or a portion of their Board retainer and Board meeting fees until termination of their status as a Board member. Ms. Hudson will also be entitled to indemnification pursuant to a standard director Indemnity Agreement with Allergan.
     There are no understandings or arrangements between Ms. Hudson and any other person pursuant to which Ms. Hudson was selected to serve as a director of Allergan. There are no family relationships between Ms. Hudson and any director, executive officer or person nominated or chosen by Allergan to become a director or executive officer, and there are no transactions between Ms. Hudson or any immediate family member and Allergan or any of its subsidiaries.
     The full text of the press release relating to Ms. Hudson's Board appointment is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
(IRVINE, Calif., December 6, 2007)  AllerganInc. (NYSE:AGN) today announced the appointment of Dawn Hudson to the Company's Board of Directors, effective January 28, 2008. Ms. Hudson will initially serve as a member of the Audit and Finance Committee and the Organization and Compensation Committee.
,
Ms. Hudson is the former President and Chief Executive Officer of Pepsi-Cola North America (PCNA), the multi-billion dollar refreshment beverage unit of PepsiCo in the United States and Canada. In addition, Ms. Hudson served as Chief Executive Officer of the PepsiCo Foodservice Division, which integrated the relevant units of PCNA and Frito-Lay North America with the Quaker, Tropicana and Gatorade brands to create a greater competitive advantage in the foodservice and vending channels.
Ms. Hudson joined PepsiCo in 1996 and served in various strategic marketing roles leading to her nomination as President of PCNA in June 2002 and Chief Executive Officer of both PCNA and PepsiCo Foodservice in March 2005, where she delivered ongoing growth through increased focus on core brands, product innovation and market expansion initiatives. Prior to joining PepsiCo, Ms. Hudson was Managing Director at D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles, a leading advertising agency based in New York.
Ms. Hudson joins Allergan's Board of Directors with more than 25 years of experience in strategic brand development resulting in some of the world's most widely recognized consumer products. A pioneer in innovative marketing and organizational practices, Ms. Hudson has been the global sponsor for PepsiCo's Women of Color program which has been recognized by numerous thought leaders and key media outlets dedicated to diversity such as magazine and magazine. In 2007, she was named among 's "50 Most Powerful Women in Business." In 2002, she received the honor of "Advertising Woman of the Year" by Advertising Women of New York. Ms. Hudson was also inducted into the American Advertising Federation's Advertising Hall of Achievement, and has been featured twice in 's "Top 50 Marketers."
Latina
Black Enterprise
Fortune Magazine
Advertising Age
"Allergan is delighted that Ms. Hudson has chosen to join our Board of Directors. Ms. Hudson's expertise and insights as a pioneer in brand development and consumer behavior will further strengthen Allergan's leadership skills in consumer marketing," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Building on Allergan's success record in developing and expanding markets, I am confident Ms. Hudson will add significant value in evaluating innovative practices and channels to help drive greater consumer awareness and appeal for Allergan's core products."
 
Previously, Ms. Hudson served as Vice Chair of the American Beverage Association. She currently sits on the Board of Directors of Lowe's Home Improvement Stores and is Chairman of the Board of the Ladies Professional Golf Association.
Ms. Hudson is an active alumna of Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, where she received a bachelor's degree in English.
Forward-Looking Statement
Statements regarding future plans, forecasts, and events, including the statements from Mr. Pyott above, are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and intentions only. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the Company's expectations. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law. Information concerning risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Certain Factors and Trends Affecting Allergan and its Businesses" in Allergan's 2006 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2007. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan are available on the World Wide Web at www.allergan.com, or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 1-714-246-4636.
About Allergan, Inc.
With nearly 60 years of experience providing high-quality, science-based products, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, discovers, develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics, obesity intervention, urologics and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
SOURCE: Allergan, Inc.
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
Allergan Contacts


