FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20070925172537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On September 24, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") approved and adopted the Fifth Amendment (the "Amendment") to Allergan's Bylaws (as amended, the "Bylaws"). Article III, Section 3 of the Bylaws was amended to provide that in an uncontested election of directors (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board), members of the Board will be elected by a majority of the votes cast with respect to that director, rather than plurality voting. Plurality voting is retained for contested elections. The Amendment took effect upon adoption by the Board.
     The Board also adopted a policy in furtherance of the majority voting principles of the Amendment. Under the Board's policy, in uncontested elections, an incumbent director nominee who does not receive the required votes for re-election is expected to tender his or her resignation to the Board. The Corporate Governance Committee, or another duly authorized committee of the Board, will determine whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation generally within 90 days after certification of the election results. Allergan will publicly disclose the committee's determination regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale behind the decision in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The foregoing description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
.
3.1 Fifth Amendment to Allergan, Inc. Bylaws
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 3.1
The ALLERGAN, INC. BYLAWS (the "Bylaws") are hereby amended as follows:
     1. Article III, Section 3 of the Bylaws is amended in its entirety as follows:
     SECTION 3. . Each director to be elected by the stockholders of the Corporation shall be elected by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast with respect to such director by the shares represented and entitled to vote therefor at a meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present (an "Election Meeting"); , that if the Board determines that the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected at such meeting (a "Contested Election"), and the Board has not rescinded such determination by the record date of the Election Meeting as initially announced, each of the directors to be elected at the Election Meeting shall be elected by the affirmative vote of a plurality of the votes cast by the shares represented and entitled to vote at such meeting with respect to the election of such director.
Election of Directors
provided, however
     For purposes of this Section 3, a "majority of the votes cast" means that the number of votes cast "for" a candidate for director exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director (with "abstentions" and "broker non-votes" not counted as a votes cast as either "for" or "against" such director's election). In an election other than a Contested Election, stockholders will be given the choice to cast votes "for" or "against" the election of directors. In a Contested Election, stockholders will be given the choice to cast "for" or "withhold" votes for the election of directors and shall not have the ability to cast any other vote with respect to such election of directors. In the event an Election Meeting involves the election of directors by separate votes by class or classes or series, the determination as to whether an election constitutes a Contested Election shall be made on a class by class or series by series basis, as applicable.
     2. The effective date of this Fifth Amendment shall be September 24, 2007.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Allergan, Inc. hereby executes this Fifth Amendment on the 24th day of September, 2007.


