FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20070131093049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 31, 2007, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2006. In its press release, Allergan included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
.
99.1 Allergan, Inc. press release dated January 31, 2007.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
ALLERGAN REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER OPERATING RESULTS
(IRVINE, Calif., January 31, 2007)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2006. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.10 per share, payable on March 9, 2007 to stockholders of record on February 16, 2007.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended December 31, 2006:
 
2-2-2
Product Sales
For the quarter ended December 31, 2006:
"We are pleased with our strong sales growth and performance in 2006 across a broad range of businesses, products and geographic regions," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Furthermore, we are looking forward in 2007 to building on our strong position as the global leader in the high growth medical aesthetics market and also on our momentum as the fastest growing global ophthalmic pharmaceutical company."
Achieving a major milestone, 2006 sales of BOTOX (botulinum toxin type A) crossed the billion-dollar mark on the strength of growth in sales for both therapeutic and cosmetic use, including GSK's sales in Japan and China as a result of Allergan's development and promotion arrangement with GSK. For full year 2006, therapeutic sales accounted for approximately 52% of total BOTOX sales and cosmetic sales accounted for approximately 48% of total BOTOX sales. The BOTOX therapeutic and cosmetic growth rate calculations are contained in the financial table of this press release.
Product and Pipeline Update
During the fourth quarter of 2006:
 
3-3-3
Following the end of the fourth quarter of 2006:
Memantine Update
Following the fourth quarter, Allergan completed the initial analysis of the data from the first of two phase III clinical trials of memantine for the preservation of visual function in patients with glaucoma. The use of memantine as a neuroprotective agent would be the first drug approved to prevent the loss of visual function, and potentially lead to a paradigm shift in the treatment of this important disease. To date, glaucoma treatment has focused on medications or surgery to lower intraocular pressure.
Two measures of visual function were selected in the statistical analysis plan to assess the efficacy of memantine in glaucoma. The functional measure chosen as the primary endpoint did not show a benefit of memantine in preserving visual function. In a number of analyses using the secondary functional measure, memantine demonstrated a statistically significant benefit of the high dose compared to placebo. While Allergan is encouraged that a functional benefit of memantine was demonstrated in this secondary analysis, there are a number of challenges that remain. First, Allergan needs to complete the full assessment of the data from this complex clinical trial that contains four years of data on approximately one thousand glaucoma patients. Once completed, Allergan will review the data with the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Importantly, the safety and efficacy of memantine must be confirmed in the second phase III trial. Until Allergan completes the data analysis and agency meetings, which could take up to twelve months, it cannot assess the impact to filing and approval timing.
 
4-4-4
Outlook
For the full year of 2007, Allergan estimates:
For the first quarter of 2007, Allergan estimates:
 
5-5-5
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding new product development, market potential, expected growth, efficiencies, costs and savings, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance, of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; and the state of the economy worldwide, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2005 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 29, 2006. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
About Allergan, Inc.
With more than 55 years of experience providing high-quality, science-based products, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, discovers, develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics, obesity intervention and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
and TM Marks owned by Allergan, Inc. JUVEDERM Mark owned by Corneal Industrie SAS
 
6-6-6
 
 
7-7-7
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 and with respect to anticipated results for the first quarter and full year of 2007. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors regarding its operational performance because it enhances an investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities by providing a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between current, past and future periods. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted net earnings" and related "adjusted earnings per share"  both basic and diluted. Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of Allergan's business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses adjusted earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure Allergan's performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
Despite the importance of adjusted earnings in analyzing Allergan's underlying business, the budgeting and forecasting process and designing incentive compensation, adjusted earnings has no standardized meaning defined by GAAP. Therefore, adjusted earnings has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of Allergan's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Allergan compensates for these limitations by using adjusted earnings only to supplement net income (loss) on a basis prepared in conformance with GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting its business. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both net income (loss) and cash flows determined under GAAP as compared to adjusted earnings, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate.
 
8-8-8
 
 
9-9-9
 
 
 
10-10-10
 
11-11-11
 
12-12-12
 
 
13-13-13
 
14-14-14
Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales
Adjusted /Neuromodulator net sales
Botox
 
15-15-15
 
In this press release, Allergan reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales. Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales represents reported sales adjusted to exclude prior period net sales for Japan. Allergan shifted to a third party license and distribution business model for its operations in Japan in 2005 and accordingly has recorded no current period pharmaceutical product net sales for the Japan operations. Allergan uses adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Specifically, Allergan believes that a report of adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates the comparison of net sales of core business operations between its current, past and future periods. Adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. Allergan also uses adjusted total pharmaceutical product net sales for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
16-16-16
 


