FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20071030171055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On October 30, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") approved and adopted the Sixth Amendment (the "Amendment") to Allergan's Bylaws. In compliance with the New York Stock Exchange's requirement that all listed securities be eligible to participate in the Direct Registration System no later than January 1, 2008, the Amendment allows for the issuance, recordation and transfer of the Company's securities by electronic or other means not involving the issuance of a certificate. The Amendment took effect upon adoption by the Board.
     The foregoing description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.1
The ALLERGAN, INC. BYLAWS (the "Bylaws") are hereby amended as follows:
     1. Article IV, Section 9 of the Bylaws is amended in its entirety as follows:
     SECTION 9. . The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal office of the Corporation, or such other place as the Board may order, a book of minutes of all meetings of directors and stockholders, with the time and place of holding, whether regular or special, and if special, how authorized and the notice thereof given, the names of those present at meetings of directors, the number of shares present or represented at meetings of stockholders, and the proceedings thereof.
Secretary
     The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal office of the Corporation's transfer agent, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the name and address of each stockholder, the number of shares of each class held by such stockholder, the number and date of certificates issued for certificated shares, the number and date of issuance of uncertificated shares, and the number and date of cancellation of certificated shares surrendered for cancellation or of uncertificated shares.
     The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of stockholders and of the Board required by these Bylaws or by law to be given, and shall keep the seal of the Corporation in safe custody and, if necessary or appropriate, shall affix and attest the seal to all documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its seal, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by these Bylaws or assigned by the Board, the Chairman of the Board or any officer of the Corporation to whom the Secretary may report. If for any reason the Secretary shall fail to give notice of any special meeting of the Board called by one or more of the persons identified in Article III, Section 9 thereof, then any such person or persons may give notice of any such special meeting.
 
     2. Article VI, Sections 1, 2 and 4 of the Bylaws are amended in their entirety as follows:
     SECTION 1. . The shares of stock of the Corporation may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under Delaware law. Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate or certificates, to be in such form as the Board shall prescribe, certifying the number and class of shares of the stock of the Corporation owned by such holder. The certificates representing certificated shares of such stock shall be numbered in the order in which they shall be issued and shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President, and by the Secretary or the Treasurer. Any or all of the signatures on the certificates may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any such certificate, shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, such certificate may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as though the person who signed such certificate, or whose facsimile signature shall have been placed thereupon, were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Every certificate surrendered to the Corporation for exchange or transfer shall be canceled, and no new certificate or certificates or uncertificated shares shall be issued in exchange for any existing certificate until such existing certificate shall have been so canceled, except in cases provided for in Section 4 of this Article VI.
Certificates for Stock
     SECTION 2. . Transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation by the registered holder thereof, or by such holder's attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary, or with a transfer clerk or a transfer agent appointed as provided in Section 3 of this Article VI, and, if such shares are represented by a certificate, upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed and the payment of all taxes thereon. The person in whose name shares of stock stand on the books of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes with regard to the Corporation. Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, such fact shall be so
Transfers of Stock
 
expressed in the entry of transfer if, when the certificate or certificates shall be presented to the Corporation for transfer or uncertificated shares are requested to be transferred, both the transferor and the transferee request the Corporation to do so.
     SECTION 4. . In any case of loss, theft, destruction, or mutilation of any certificate of stock, another certificate or uncertificated shares may be issued in its place upon proof of such loss, theft, destruction, or mutilation and upon the giving of a bond of indemnity to the Corporation in such form and in such sum as the Board may direct; provided, however, that a new certificate or uncertificated shares may be issued without requiring any bond when, in the judgment of the Board, it is proper so to do.
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed, and Mutilated Certificates
     3. The effective date of this Sixth Amendment shall be October 30, 2007.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Allergan, Inc. hereby executes this Sixth Amendment on the 30th day of October, 2007.
ALLERGAN, INC.


