FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20070502093057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 2, 2007, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the first quarter ended March 30, 2007. In its press release, Allergan included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     In the press release discussed in Item 2.02 above, Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a 2-for-1 stock split of Allergan common stock, to be effected in the form of a stock dividend. Stockholders of record at the close of business on June 11, 2007 will receive one additional share of Allergan common stock for each share held on that date. The new shares of Allergan common stock will be distributed on June 22, 2007.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., May 2, 2007)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the quarter ended March 30, 2007. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a first quarter dividend of $0.10 per share, payable on June 8, 2007 to stockholders of record on May 18, 2007, and a 2-for-1 stock split, to be effected in the form of a one hundred percent (100%) stock dividend, payable on June 22, 2007 to stockholders of record on June 11, 2007.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended March 30, 2007:
Product Sales
For the quarter ended March 30, 2007:
 
2-2-2
"I am extremely pleased with our robust across-the-board performance in the first quarter, driven by both continued strong organic growth of our pharmaceutical businesses and our growing momentum in medical aesthetics," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Furthermore, we are making excellent progress in building out our position as the largest medical aesthetics company in the world as we continue to expand our depth and breadth in the dermatology and plastic surgery channels."
Product and Pipeline Update
During the first quarter of 2007:
Following the end of the first quarter of 2007:
Allergan today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a 2-for-1 stock split of Allergan's common stock, to be effected in the form of a one hundred percent (100%) stock dividend. Stockholders of record at the close of business on June 11, 2007 will receive one additional share of Allergan common stock for each share held on that date. The new shares will be distributed on June 22, 2007. The stock dividend will represent a tax-free distribution to stockholders and will not change the proportionate interest a stockholder maintains in Allergan. Upon distribution of the stock dividend, Allergan's outstanding common stock will increase from approximately 152.2 million shares to approximately 304.4 million shares.
Other Company Events  Stock Split
 
3-3-3
Outlook
For the full year of 2007:
For the second quarter of 2007, Allergan estimates:
In this press release, the statements regarding product development, market potential, expected growth, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
4-4-4
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms, including government pricing and reimbursement policies; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations and the state of the economy worldwide can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2006 Form 10-K. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
With more than 55 years of experience providing high-quality, science-based products, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, discovers, develops and commercializes products in the ophthalmology, neurosciences, medical dermatology, medical aesthetics, obesity intervention and other specialty markets that deliver value to its customers, satisfy unmet medical needs, and improve patients' lives.
About Allergan, Inc.
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
Allergan Contacts
and TM Marks owned by Allergan, Inc. JUVEDERM Mark owned by Corneal Industrie SAS ACULAR is a registered trademark of Roche Palo Alto, LLC
 
5-5-5
 
6-6-6
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three months ended March 30, 2007 and March 31, 2006 and with respect to anticipated results for the second quarter and full year of 2007. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors regarding its operational performance because it enhances an investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities by providing a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between current, past and future periods. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of Allergan's business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses adjusted earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure Allergan's performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
Despite the importance of adjusted earnings in analyzing Allergan's underlying business, the budgeting and forecasting process and designing incentive compensation, adjusted earnings has no standardized meaning defined by GAAP. Therefore, adjusted earnings has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of Allergan's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Allergan compensates for these limitations by using adjusted earnings only to supplement net income (loss) on a basis prepared in conformance with GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting its business. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both net earnings (loss) and cash flows determined under GAAP as compared to adjusted earnings, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate.
 
7-7-7
 
8-8-8
 
9-9-9
 
10-10-10


