FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20080507093103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On May 7, 2008, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008. In its press release, Allergan included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
99.1 Allergan, Inc. press release dated May 7, 2008
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., May 7, 2008)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a first quarter dividend of $0.05 per share, payable on June 13, 2008 to stockholders of record on May 23, 2008.
For the quarter ended March 31, 2008:
Operating Results
For the quarter ended March 31, 2008:
Product Sales
"Our results demonstrate the strategic value of product diversity and global presence. The strength of our reimbursed pharmaceutical businesses offset the marginal impact on our elective product lines as the U.S. economy showed signs of softening and consumers adjusted their spending," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition, both the reimbursed and elective businesses enjoyed robust growth outside the United States with BOTOX growing at double the rate at constant currency internationally than in the United States."
 
2-2-2
During the first quarter of 2008:
Product and Pipeline Update
On July 2, 2007, Allergan completed the sale of the ophthalmic surgical business that Allergan obtained in connection with its January 2007 acquisition of Groupe Corneal Laboratoires. Operating results of the ophthalmic surgical business are presented as discontinued operations in the financial tables of this press release.
Discontinued Operations
On June 22, 2007, Allergan completed a two-for-one stock split of its common stock. The stock split was structured in the form of a 100% stock dividend and was paid to stockholders of record on June 11, 2007. All share and per share data contained in this press release have been adjusted to reflect the effect of the stock split for all periods presented.
Common Stock Split
 
3-3-3
For the full year of 2008:
Outlook
For the second quarter of 2008, Allergan estimates:
Historical adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance and net sales reported in constant currency are presented as non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the financial tables of this press release.
In this press release, the statements regarding product development, market potential, expected growth, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share, product net sales and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Forward-Looking Statements
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms, including government pricing and reimbursement policies; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; the impact of any economic downturn on consumer spending and the state of the economy worldwide can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
 
4-4-4
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2007 Form 10-K. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
Founded in 1950, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a multi-specialty health care company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices that enable people to live life to its greatest potential  to see more clearly, move more freely, express themselves more fully. The Company employs approximately 8,000 people worldwide and operates state-of-the-art R&D facilities and world-class manufacturing plants. In addition to its discovery-to-development research organization, Allergan has global marketing and sales capabilities with a presence in more than 100 countries.
About Allergan, Inc.
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
Allergan Contacts
and  Marks owned by Allergan, Inc.
 
5-5-5
 
6-6-6
 
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three months ended March 31, 2008 and March 30, 2007 and with respect to anticipated results for the second quarter and full year of 2008. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors regarding its operational performance because it enhances an investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities by providing a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between current, past and future periods. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of Allergan's business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses adjusted earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure Allergan's performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
Despite the importance of adjusted earnings in analyzing Allergan's underlying business, the budgeting and forecasting process and designing incentive compensation, adjusted earnings has no standardized meaning defined by GAAP. Therefore, adjusted earnings has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of Allergan's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Allergan compensates for these limitations by using adjusted earnings only to supplement net earnings on a basis prepared in conformance with GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting its business. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both net earnings and cash flows determined under GAAP as compared to adjusted earnings, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate.
In this press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Reporting sales performance using constant currency sales has the limitation of excluding currency effects from the comparison of sales results over various periods, even though the effect of changing foreign currency exchange rates has an actual effect on Allergan's operating results. Investors should consider these effects in their overall analysis of Allergan's operating results.
 
7-7-7
 
8-8-8
 
9-9-9
 
10-10-10
 


