FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20081029093036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On October 28, 2008, Allergan, Inc. ("") and its wholly-owned subsidiaries Allergan Sales, LLC ("") and Allergan USA, Inc. ("" and, together with Allergan, Inc. and Allergan Sales, "") entered into a License, Development, Supply and Distribution Agreement (the "") with Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (""). Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the License Agreement, Allergan and Spectrum will jointly develop and commercialize apaziquone (the ""), an antineoplastic agent currently being investigated for the treatment of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer.
Allergan, Inc.
Allergan Sales
Allergan USA
Allergan
License Agreement
Spectrum
Product
Pursuant to the License Agreement, Allergan will pay Spectrum $41.5 million upfront and will make additional payments to Spectrum of up to $304 million based on the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercialization milestones. In addition, Allergan will pay royalties to Spectrum on all sales of the Product outside of the United States. In the United States, Allergan and Spectrum plan to co-promote the Product and share in the resulting profits, losses and expenses.
Spectrum retained exclusive rights to the Product in Asia, including Japan and China, and Allergan received exclusive rights to the Product in the rest of the world. Allergan also received an exclusive license to the Product's EOquin trademark worldwide. In addition and subject to certain conditions, Allergan will not develop apaziquone for any use outside of bladder cancer, and neither party will develop certain other antineoplastic agents for the treatment of bladder cancer outside of Asia.
Spectrum will lead Product development, including conducting the two on-going Phase 3 clinical trials pursuant to a joint development plan, and the parties will generally cooperate in conducting any additional studies relating to the Product in the United States and the European Union. Allergan will pay the majority of these clinical trial expenses.
Should Spectrum fail to meet certain obligations relating to the development of the Product, Allergan may take over Product development, which could reduce certain development and regulatory milestone payments to Spectrum. In addition and under certain circumstances, the co-promotion between Allergan and Spectrum could terminate and, following such termination, Allergan and Spectrum would no longer share equally in the profits, losses and expenses related to Product sales in the United States. Allergan would instead pay Spectrum royalties on all Product sales in the United States and make other payments to Spectrum based on the achievement of certain commercialization milestones. In addition, should Allergan fail to commercialize the Product in the United States and the European Union after a specified time, it could lose its license to the Product in the United States and the European Union.
A joint press release dated October 29, 2008 announcing the execution of the License Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On October 29, 2008, Allergan, Inc. issued an earnings press release announcing operating results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008. In its earnings press release, Allergan, Inc. included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC. A copy of the earnings press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information and the information contained in the earnings press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan, Inc. made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) and Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NasdaqGM: SPPI) today announced signing an exclusive collaboration for the development and commercialization of apaziquone, an antineoplastic agent currently being investigated for the treatment of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer by intravesical instillation.
IRVINE, California  October 29, 2008
Non-muscle invasive bladder cancer is a form of bladder cancer localized in the surface layers of the bladder that has not spread to the deeper muscle layer. Approximately 70% of all patients newly diagnosed with bladder cancer have non-muscle invasive bladder cancer.
1
More than one million patients in the United States and Europe are estimated to be affected by the disease, which is treated predominantly by urologists.
2
Spectrum is currently conducting two Phase 3 clinical trials to explore apaziquone's safety and efficacy as a potential treatment for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer following surgery. Spectrum expects to complete enrollment by year-end 2009.
Under the terms of the agreement, Allergan will pay Spectrum $41.5 million at closing and will make additional payments of up to $304 million based on the achievement of certain development, regulatory and commercialization milestones. Spectrum retained exclusive rights to apaziquone in Asia, including Japan and China. Allergan received exclusive rights to apaziquone for the treatment of bladder cancer in the rest of the world, including the United States, Canada and Europe. In the United States, Allergan and Spectrum will co-promote apaziquone and share in its profits and expenses. Allergan will also pay Spectrum royalties on all of its apaziquone sales outside of the United States. Spectrum will continue to conduct the apaziquone clinical trials pursuant to a joint development plan, with Allergan bearing the majority of these expenses.
"Today's announcement represents closure of our very deliberate process to select the right partner for apaziquone," said Rajesh C. Shrotriya, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. "With Allergan's strategic focus on building a strong urology franchise and track record of success in pharmaceutical development and commercialization, particularly in creating and leading new markets, we are convinced that this constitutes an ideal partnership."
"The addition of apaziquone to our urologics pipeline portfolio reflects our further commitment to pursuing innovative treatments in specialty markets where there is a high unmet need and significant growth potential," said David E. I. Pyott, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Allergan, Inc. "Allergan looks forward to working with Spectrum in developing novel treatments for bladder
 
 
 
cancer, and we believe apaziquone, if approved, has the potential to represent a meaningful advancement to urologists and patients in the current bladder cancer treatment paradigm."
About Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company that acquires, develops and commercializes a diversified portfolio of drug products, with a focus on oncology and urology. Its strategy is comprised of acquiring and developing a broad and diverse pipeline of late-stage clinical and commercial products; establishing a commercial organization for Spectrum's approved drugs; continuing to build a team with people who have demonstrated skills, passion, commitment and have a track record of success in developing drugs and commercialization in its areas of focus; and leveraging the expertise of partners around the world to assist Spectrum in the execution of its strategy.
About Allergan, Inc.
Founded in 1950, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a multi-specialty health care company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices that enable people to live life to its greatest potential  to see more clearly, move more freely, express themselves more fully. The Company employs more than 8,500 people worldwide and operates state-of-the-art R&D facilities and world-class manufacturing plants. In addition to its discovery-to-development research organization, Allergan has global marketing and sales capabilities with a presence in more than 100 countries.
Allergan, Inc. and Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," including statements by Mr. Shrotriya and Mr. Pyott and other statements regarding the safety, effectiveness, development timing and market potential associated with apaziquone and other pharmaceutical products. If the underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from Allergan's or Spectrum's expectations and projections. Risks and uncertainties include, among other things, general industry and pharmaceutical market conditions; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in the research and development and regulatory processes; challenges related to product marketing, such as the unpredictability of market acceptance for new products; inconsistency of treatment results among patients; the potential for product failures; potential difficulties in manufacturing new products; governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations; and the ongoing success of the collaboration. Allergan and Spectrum expressly disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
Additional information concerning these and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2007 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan are available on the World Wide Web at or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714.246.4636.
www.allergan.com
Additional information concerning these and other risk factors can also be found in press releases issued by Spectrum, as well as in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Spectrum's 2007 Form 10-K and Spectrum's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. Copies of Spectrum's press releases, filings as well as additional information about the company, are available at or you can contact Spectrum's Investor Relations Department by calling 949.788.6700.
www.spectrumpharm.com
 
SPECTRUM PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. and EOquin are registered trademarks of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc., TURNING INSIGHTS INTO HOPE and the Spectrum Pharmaceuticals' logos are trademarks owned by Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 2008 Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Allergan, Inc. Contacts
Jim Hindman 714.246.4636 (investors)
Joann Bradley 714.246.4766 (investors)
Emil Schultz 714.246.4474 (investors)
Caroline Van Hove 714.246.5134 (media)
Heather Katt 714.246.6224 (media)
Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Contacts
Russell Skibsted
SVP & Chief Business Officer
949.788.6700
Paul Arndt
Manager, Investor Relations
949.788.6700

Exhibit 99.2
(IRVINE, Calif., October 29, 2008)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a third quarter dividend of $0.05 per share, payable on December 1, 2008 to stockholders of record on November 10, 2008.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended September 30, 2008:
 
 
Product Sales
For the quarter ended September 30, 2008:
 
 
 
"In spite of the impact of the economy in Europe and the United States on our cash-pay businesses, we made tough spending tradeoffs as we have applied discipline and execution to deliver the top end of our earnings per share guidance for the third quarter," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "As we manage through the economic downturn, our goal will be to continue to invest in building an ever stronger R&D pipeline and to selectively direct commercial funds to the highest return initiatives, including the launch of products expected to be approved in 2009. These strategies should ensure that we are well positioned to emerge from the downturn with intact long-term growth and value creation fundamentals."
2-2-2
 
Product and Pipeline Update
During the third quarter of 2008:
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-3-3
 
Following the end of the third quarter of 2008:
 
 
 
 
 
4-4-4
 
Outlook
For the full year of 2008, Allergan estimates:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the fourth quarter of 2008, Allergan estimates:
 
 
Historical adjusted diluted earnings per share and guidance amounts for adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted cost of sales, adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses and adjusted research and development expenses as well as net sales reported in constant currency are presented as non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the financial tables of this press release. The reconciliation for the guidance amounts in the financial tables includes historical non-GAAP adjustments and an estimate of the future effect from amortization of acquired intangible assets.
5-5-5
 
Outlook for 2009
For our plan, we are assuming that the impact of the economic downturn will continue throughout 2009. Despite the challenges caused by this, our strategic goal continues to be long-term stockholder value creation by investment in the long-term fundamentals of research and development and in selective commercial investments to launch the several new products with expected regulatory approvals in 2009, as we leverage our historically high selling, general and administrative ratios. For many years we consistently achieved our strategic aspiration of mid to high teens adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) growth. In light of the opportunities in our strong research and development pipeline and the imperative of appropriately launching the new products, our broad preliminary estimate of 2009 adjusted diluted EPS growth is between 5 percent and 12 percent over final 2008 adjusted diluted EPS. In early February 2009, when we announce our fourth quarter 2008 results and in keeping with our past practice, we will establish more precise guidance by which time we will have a better indication of sales trends, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, all of which are presently volatile. As the world economy recovers, Allergan intends to re-establish its mid to high teens adjusted diluted EPS growth.
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding product development, market potential, expected growth, anticipated product filings and approvals, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for the state of the economy, Allergan's earnings per share, product net sales, revenue forecasts, future investment allocations and any other future performance, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms, including government pricing and reimbursement policies; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigation, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates, international relations, the impact of any economic downturn on consumer spending and the state of the economy worldwide can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
6-6-6
 
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2007 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
www.allergan.com
About Allergan, Inc.
Founded in 1950, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a multi-specialty health care company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices that enable people to live life to its greatest potential  to see more clearly, move more freely, express themselves more fully. The Company employs more than 8,500 people worldwide and operates state-of-the-art R&D facilities and world-class manufacturing plants. In addition to its discovery-to-development research organization, Allergan has global marketing and sales capabilities with a presence in more than 100 countries.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors)
Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors)
Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors)
Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
 and  Marks owned by Allergan, Inc.
JUVDERM is a registered trademark of Allergan Industrie SAS
Clinique is a registered trademark of Clinique Laboratories, LLC
7-7-7
 
 
8-8-8
 
 
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 and September 28, 2007 and with respect to anticipated results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2008. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors regarding its operational performance because it enhances an investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities by providing a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between current, past and future periods. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings" and "adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share" as well as "adjusted cost of sales," "adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses" and "adjusted research and development expenses." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of Allergan's business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses adjusted earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure Allergan's performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
Despite the importance of adjusted earnings in analyzing Allergan's underlying business, the budgeting and forecasting process and designing incentive compensation, adjusted earnings has no standardized meaning defined by GAAP. Therefore, adjusted earnings has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of Allergan's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
 
 
 
 
 
Allergan compensates for these limitations by using adjusted earnings only to supplement net earnings on a basis prepared in conformance with GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting its business. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both net earnings and cash flows determined under GAAP as compared to adjusted earnings, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate.
Allergan also uses the financial measures adjusted cost of sales, adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses and adjusted research and development expenses, which are sub-components of adjusted earnings and adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share, for its full year 2008 guidance to provide a more complete understanding of the cost components affecting its business. Allergan includes these financial measures in the determination of adjusted earnings to evaluate its management's performance for compensation purposes and to assist in comparing certain of its costs to its competitors' costs. These adjusted cost measures do not take into account the non-core business items removed in Allergan's calculations of adjusted earnings and adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share and, therefore, are subject to the same limitations discussed above. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses determined under GAAP as compared to the adjusted amounts included in this press release.
9-9-9
 
In this press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Reporting sales performance using constant currency sales has the limitation of excluding currency effects from the comparison of sales results over various periods, even though the effect of changing foreign currency exchange rates has an actual effect on Allergan's operating results. Investors should consider these effects in their overall analysis of Allergan's operating results.
10-10-10
 
 
11-11-11
 
 
 
 
 
 
12-12-12
 
 
13-13-13
 
 
14-14-14
 
 
15-15-15
 
16-16-16
 
 
17-17-17
 
 
 


