FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20080130093101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 30, 2008, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2007. In its press release, Allergan included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
     This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., January 30, 2008)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the quarter ended December 31, 2007. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.05 per share, payable on March 7, 2008 to stockholders of record on February 15, 2008.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended December 31, 2007:
Product Sales
For the quarter ended December 31, 2007:
"We are pleased with our exceptional sales growth and performance in the fourth quarter across a broad range of businesses, products and geographic regions," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Furthermore, we are looking forward in 2008 to building on our strong momentum of creating and leading high growth markets through further product and geographic diversification."
 
2-2-2
Based on internal information and assumptions, full year 2007 therapeutic sales accounted for approximately 50% of total BOTOX (botulinum toxin type A) sales and grew at a rate of approximately 19% compared to 2006. Full year 2007 cosmetic sales accounted for approximately 50% of total BOTOX sales and grew at a rate of approximately 29% compared to 2006.
Product and Pipeline Update
During the fourth quarter of 2007:
Following the end of the fourth quarter of 2007:
 
3-3-3
Memantine Update
Earlier this week, Allergan unmasked the second Phase 3 clinical trial examining the safety and efficacy of oral memantine as a treatment for glaucoma. Although the study showed that the progression of disease was significantly lower in patients receiving the higher dose of memantine compared to patients receiving the low dose of memantine, there was no significant benefit compared to patients receiving placebo. Therefore, the study failed to meet its primary endpoint and to sufficiently replicate the results of the first Phase 3 trial. While additional analyses are ongoing, the company does not believe that these analyses will support an approval of the drug.
Discontinued Operations
On July 2, 2007, Allergan and Croma-Pharma completed the sale of the ophthalmic surgical business that Allergan obtained in connection with its January 2007 acquisition of Groupe Corneal Laboratoires. Operating results of the ophthalmic surgical business are presented as discontinued operations in the financial tables of this press release.
Common Stock Split
On June 22, 2007, Allergan completed a two-for-one stock split of its common stock. The stock split was structured in the form of a 100% stock dividend and was paid to stockholders of record on June 11, 2007. All share and per share data contained in this press release have been adjusted to reflect the effect of the stock split for all periods presented.
Outlook
For the full year of 2008, Allergan estimates:
 
4-4-4
For the first quarter of 2008, Allergan estimates:
Historical adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted earnings per share guidance and net sales reported in constant currency are presented as non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the financial tables of this press release.
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding product development, market potential, expected growth, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for Allergan's earnings per share, product net sales and revenue forecasts, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms, including government pricing and reimbursement policies; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigations, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, matters generally affecting the economy, such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates; international relations; the impact of any economic downturn on consumer spending and the state of the economy worldwide can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
 
5-5-5
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2006 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 28, 2007. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
www.allergan.com
About Allergan, Inc.
Founded in 1950, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a multi-specialty health care company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices that enable people to live life to its greatest potential  to see more clearly, move more freely, express themselves more fully. The Company employs more than 7,500 people worldwide and operates state-of-the-art R&D facilities and world-class manufacturing plants. In addition to its discovery-to-development research organization, Allergan has global marketing and sales capabilities with a presence in more than 100 countries.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors) Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors) Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors) Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
and  Marks owned by Allergan, Inc.
 
6-6-6
(b) Integration and transition costs related to the acquisitions of Corneal, Inamed, Esprit and EndoArt
 
7-7-7
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 and with respect to anticipated results for the first quarter and full year of 2008. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors regarding its operational performance because it enhances an investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities by providing a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between current, past and future periods. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measure "adjusted earnings" and related "adjusted diluted earnings per share." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of Allergan's business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses adjusted earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure Allergan's performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
Despite the importance of adjusted earnings in analyzing Allergan's underlying business, the budgeting and forecasting process and designing incentive compensation, adjusted earnings has no standardized meaning defined by GAAP. Therefore, adjusted earnings has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of Allergan's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
Allergan compensates for these limitations by using adjusted earnings only to supplement net earnings (loss) on a basis prepared in conformance with GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting its business. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both net earnings (loss) and cash flows determined under GAAP as compared to adjusted earnings, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate.
 
8-8-8
 
9-9-9
 
10-10-10
 
11-11-11
 
12-12-12
 
13-13-13
 
14-14-14
In this press release, Allergan reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
 
15-15-15


