FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20091029093054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 29, 2009, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009. In its press release, Allergan included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
 
 
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., October 29, 2009)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a third quarter dividend of $0.05 per share, payable on November 30, 2009 to stockholders of record on November 9, 2009.
Operating Results Attributable to Stockholders
For the quarter ended September 30, 2009:
 
 
Product Sales
For the quarter ended September 30, 2009:
 
 
 
"We are pleased with our continued operational performance during the third quarter as our businesses are performing better than was expected at the beginning of 2009," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "With this strength in our businesses, we made the strategic decision to invest in increased Direct to Consumer advertising programs in the U.S. as we anticipate recovery from the recession. We are also pleased that we filed, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), BOTOX (onabotulinumtoxinA) for chronic migraine as well as for upper limb spasticity."
 
2-2-2
 
Product and Pipeline Update
During the third quarter of 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following the end of the third quarter of 2009:
 
 
3-3-3
 
 
 
Outlook
For the full year of 2009, Allergan estimates:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4-4-4
 
For the fourth quarter of 2009, Allergan estimates:
 
 
On January 1, 2009, Allergan adopted the update to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidance related to the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled fully or partially in cash upon conversion, which requires retrospective application to prior periods. The impact from the adoption of this guidance on the previously reported GAAP results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2008 was a reduction of diluted earnings per share attributable to stockholders of $0.01 and $0.03, respectively, from the amounts previously reported. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to stockholders for the third quarter and first nine months of 2008 were not impacted.
Historical non-GAAP basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to stockholders and guidance amounts for non-GAAP diluted earnings per share attributable to stockholders, non-GAAP cost of sales, non-GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses, non-GAAP research and development expenses, non-GAAP amortization of acquired intangible assets as well as non-GAAP net sales reported in constant currency are each reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the financial tables of this press release and the accompanying footnotes. The reconciliation for the guidance amounts in the financial tables includes historical non-GAAP adjustments and an estimate of the future effect from amortization of acquired intangible assets and non-cash interest expense associated with amortization of convertible debt discount.
All prior period information in the financial tables of this press release has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the impact of the adoptions in the first quarter of 2009 of updates to FASB guidance related to the accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled fully or partially in cash upon conversion and the accounting and financial reporting of noncontrolling ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent.
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding product development, market potential, expected growth, anticipated product filings, approvals and labeling, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as Allergan's earnings per share, product net sales, revenue forecasts and any other statements that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after the end of the applicable reporting period. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
 
5-5-5
 
All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things the following: changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the R&D and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms, including government pricing and reimbursement policies; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigation, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, U.S. and international economic conditions, including higher unemployment, financial hardship, consumer confidence and debt levels, taxation, changes in interest and currency exchange rates, international relations, capital and credit availability, the status of financial markets and institutions, as well as the general impact of the current economic crisis, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2008 Form 10-K and Allergan's Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
About Allergan, Inc.
Founded in 1950, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a multi-specialty health care company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices that enable people to live life to its greatest potential  to see more clearly, move more freely, express themselves more fully. The Company employs more than 8,000 people worldwide and operates state-of-the-art R&D facilities and world-class manufacturing plants. In addition to its discovery-to-development research organization, Allergan has global marketing and sales capabilities with a presence in more than 100 countries.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors)
Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors)
Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors)
Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
and  Marks owned by Allergan, Inc.
 
6-6-6
 
 
 
7-7-7
 
 
 
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and September 30, 2008 and with respect to anticipated results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2009. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors regarding its operational performance because it enhances an investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities by providing a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between current, past and future periods. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results as reported under GAAP.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "non-GAAP earnings attributable to Allergan, Inc." and "non-GAAP basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to Allergan, Inc. stockholders" as well as "non-GAAP cost of sales," "non-GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses," "non-GAAP research and development expenses," "non-GAAP amortization of acquired intangible assets," "non-GAAP restructuring charges," "non-GAAP operating income," "non-GAAP interest expense," "non-GAAP unrealized (loss) gain on derivative instruments," "non-GAAP gain on investments, net," "non-GAAP earnings before income taxes" and "non-GAAP provision for income taxes." Allergan uses non-GAAP earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Non-GAAP earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of Allergan's business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses non-GAAP earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure Allergan's performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level. Allergan also uses non-GAAP earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
 
8-8-8
 
Despite the importance of non-GAAP earnings in analyzing Allergan's underlying business, the budgeting and forecasting process and designing incentive compensation, non-GAAP earnings has no standardized meaning defined by GAAP. Therefore, non-GAAP earnings has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of Allergan's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
 
Allergan compensates for these limitations by using non-GAAP earnings only to supplement net earnings on a basis prepared in conformance with GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting its business. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both net earnings and cash flows determined under GAAP as compared to non-GAAP earnings, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate.
Allergan uses the financial measures non-GAAP basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to Allergan, Inc. stockholders and non-GAAP earnings attributable to Allergan, Inc. and its subcomponents non-GAAP cost of sales, non-GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses, non-GAAP research and development expenses, non-GAAP amortization of acquired intangible assets, and non-GAAP provision for income taxes, for its full year 2009 guidance to provide a more complete understanding of the cost components affecting its business. Allergan includes these financial measures in the determination of non-GAAP earnings to evaluate its management's performance for compensation purposes and to assist in comparing certain of its costs to its competitors' costs. These non-GAAP cost measures do not take into account the non-core business items removed in its calculations of non-GAAP earnings and non-GAAP basic and diluted earnings per share and, therefore, are subject to the same limitations discussed above. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, amortization of acquired intangible assets and provision for income taxes determined under GAAP as compared to the non-GAAP amounts included in this press release.
In this press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Reporting sales performance using constant currency sales has the limitation of excluding currency effects from the comparison of sales results over various periods, even though the effect of changing foreign currency exchange rates has an actual effect on Allergan's operating results. Investors should consider these effects in their overall analysis of Allergan's operating results.
 
9-9-9
 
 
 
10-10-10
 
 
 
 
 
11-11-11
 
 
 
12-12-12
 
 
 
13-13-13
 
 
 
14-14-14
 
 
 
15-15-15
 
 
16-16-16
 
 
 
 
17-17-17
 
 
 
 


