FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20090204093030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On February 4, 2009, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing operating results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2008. In its press release, Allergan included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the SEC. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
 
On February 4, 2009, Allergan announced that its Board of Directors (the "Board") approved management's recommendation to implement a restructuring plan (the "Restructuring Plan"). The Board approved the Restructuring Plan on February 3, 2009.
In order to concentrate Allergan's resources during this recessionary period on customer-facing activities and on building the strength of its R&D pipeline, while continuing to deliver on its earnings goals, Allergan conducted a worldwide review of its operations to improve efficiency. Furthermore, Allergan will focus its spending on programs and businesses that produce the highest returns. Consequently, Allergan will lay off approximately 460 employees, or approximately five percent of its global headcount, primarily in the United States and Europe. The majority of the employees affected by the Restructuring Plan are in two areas: (1) U.S. urology sales and marketing personnel as a result of the Company's decision to focus on the urology specialty and to seek a partner to promote SANCTURA XR to general practitioners, and (2) marketing personnel in the United States and Europe as Allergan adjusts its back-office structures to the reduced short-term sales outlook for some businesses. With the exception of the U.S. urology sales force and some low productivity sales territories in Europe, no other sales force positions are affected. Modest reductions are being made in other functions as Allergan re-engineers its processes and increases productivity.
Further, Allergan has reviewed its stock option-related cost structure. Allergan's 2008 full-round employee stock option grant took place in February 2008 with a strike price of $64.47 versus a current stock price of approximately $40. While Allergan does not intend to institute a stock option exchange or repricing program, the Board has decided to accelerate the vesting and remove certain stock option expiration features for all employees holding the 2008 full-round employee stock options and to modify certain stock option expiration features for other stock options held by employees impacted by the Restructuring Plan.
Allergan currently estimates that it will incur total non-recurring pre-tax charges of between $110 million and $117 million in connection with the Restructuring Plan, of which only $40 million to $45 million will be a cash charge. The remainder will be a non-cash accounting-related charge associated with the acceleration of previously unrecognized share-based compensation costs and any additional estimated costs associated with the modification of stock option grants as discussed above and certain other non-cash accounting adjustments. These charges will be incurred beginning in the first quarter of 2009 and are expected to continue up through and including the fourth quarter of 2009. The realized expense savings from the Restructuring Plan are expected to exceed the cash charges in less than one year. The Company expects the Restructuring Plan to be substantially complete by the end of the second quarter of 2009.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., February 04, 2009)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the quarter ended December 31, 2008. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.05 per share, payable on March 13, 2009 to stockholders of record on February 20, 2009.
Operating Results
For the quarter ended December 31, 2008:
 
 
Product Sales
For the quarter ended December 31, 2008:
 
 
 
"Allergan continued to demonstrate an ability to apply discipline and execution in our core specialty businesses despite the challenging economic environment observed in the fourth quarter of 2008," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Our goal is to continue to focus on enhancing
2-2-2
 
efficiencies and strengthening our position within our core specialty markets throughout 2009, as we look forward to the anticipated approvals and launches of new growth drivers from our rich R&D pipeline, including the recently approved LATISSE for enhanced eyelash prominence."
Based on internal information and assumptions, full year 2008 therapeutic sales accounted for approximately 50% of total BOTOX (botulinum toxin type A) sales and grew at a rate of approximately 8% compared to 2007. Full year 2008 cosmetic sales accounted for approximately 50% of total BOTOX sales and grew at a rate of approximately 8% compared to 2007.
Restructuring
In order to concentrate Allergan's resources during this recessionary period on customer-facing activities and on building the strength of its R&D pipeline, while continuing to deliver on its earnings goals, Allergan conducted a worldwide review of its operations to improve efficiency. Furthermore, Allergan will focus its spending on programs and businesses that produce the highest returns. Consequently, Allergan will lay off approximately 460 employees, or approximately 5 percent of its global headcount, primarily in the United States and Europe.
The majority of the employees affected by the restructuring are in two areas: (1) U.S. urology sales and marketing personnel as a result of the Company's decision to focus on the urology specialty and to seek a partner to promote SANCTURA XR to general practitioners, and (2) marketing personnel in the United States and Europe as Allergan adjusts its back-office structures to the reduced short-term sales outlook for some businesses. With the exception of the U.S. urology sales force and some low productivity sales territories in Europe, no other sales force positions are affected. Modest reductions are being made in other functions as Allergan re-engineers its processes and increases productivity.
Further, Allergan has reviewed its stock option-related cost structure. Allergan's 2008 full-round employee stock option grant took place in February 2008 with a strike price of $64.47 versus a current stock price of approximately $40. While Allergan does not intend to institute a stock option exchange or repricing program, the Company's Board of Directors has decided to accelerate the vesting and remove certain stock option expiration features for all employees holding the 2008 full-round employee stock options and to modify certain stock option expiration features for other stock options held by employees impacted by the restructuring. Allergan will incur a one-time charge in the first quarter of 2009 associated with these stock option grant modifications.
Allergan currently estimates that it will incur total non-recurring pre-tax charges of between $110 million and $117 million in connection with the restructuring, of which only $40 million to $45 million will be a cash charge. The remainder will be a non-cash accounting-related charge associated with the acceleration of previously unrecognized share-based compensation costs and any additional estimated costs associated with the
 
3-3-3
 
modification of stock option grants as discussed above and certain other non-cash accounting adjustments. These charges will be incurred beginning in the first quarter of 2009 and are expected to continue up through and including the fourth quarter of 2009. The realized expense savings from the restructuring are expected to exceed the cash charges in less than one year.
Product and Pipeline Update
During the fourth quarter of 2008:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4-4-4
 
Following the end of the fourth quarter of 2008:
 
Outlook
For the full year of 2009, Allergan estimates:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the first quarter of 2009, Allergan estimates:
 
 
 
5-5-5
 
Historical adjusted diluted earnings per share and guidance amounts for adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted cost of sales, adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses, adjusted research and development expenses, and effective tax rate on adjusted earnings as well as net sales reported in constant currency are presented as non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in the financial tables of this press release. The reconciliation for the guidance amounts in the financial tables includes historical non-GAAP adjustments and an estimate of the future effect from amortization of acquired intangible assets and non-cash interest expense associated with amortization of convertible debt discount.
Forward-Looking Statements
In this press release, the statements regarding product development, market potential, expected growth, anticipated product filings and approvals, the statements by Mr. Pyott as well as the outlook for the state of the economy, Allergan's earnings per share, product net sales, revenue forecasts, future investment allocations, restructuring benefits or outcomes and any other future performance, among other statements above, are forward-looking statements. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after a quarter's end and year's end. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
Any other statements in this press release that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms, including government pricing and reimbursement policies; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigation, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, U.S. and international economic conditions, including higher unemployment, financial hardship, consumer confidence and debt levels, taxation, changes in interest and currency exchange rates, international relations, capital and credit availability, the status of financial markets and institutions, as well as the general impact of the current economic crisis, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
 
6-6-6
 
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2007 Form 10-K and Allergan's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan is available at or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
www.allergan.com
About Allergan, Inc.
Founded in 1950, Allergan, Inc., with headquarters in Irvine, California, is a multi-specialty health care company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices that enable people to live life to its greatest potential  to see more clearly, move more freely, express themselves more fully. The Company employs more than 8,500 people worldwide and operates state-of-the-art R&D facilities and world-class manufacturing plants. In addition to its discovery-to-development research organization, Allergan has global marketing and sales capabilities with a presence in more than 100 countries.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors)
Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors)
Emil Schultz (714) 246-4474 (investors)
Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
and  Marks owned by Allergan, Inc.
Clinique is a registered trademark of Clinique Laboratories, LLC
 
7-7-7
 
 
 
8-8-8
 
 
 
 
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 and with respect to anticipated results for the first quarter and full year of 2009. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors regarding its operational performance because it enhances an investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities by providing a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between current, past and future periods. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "adjusted earnings" and "adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share" as well as "adjusted cost of sales," "adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses," "adjusted research and development expenses" and "adjusted provision for income taxes." Allergan uses adjusted earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of Allergan's business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses adjusted earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure Allergan's performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level. Allergan also uses adjusted earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
Despite the importance of adjusted earnings in analyzing Allergan's underlying business, the budgeting and forecasting process and designing incentive compensation, adjusted earnings has no standardized meaning defined by GAAP. Therefore, adjusted earnings has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of Allergan's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
 
 
 
 
 
Allergan compensates for these limitations by using adjusted earnings only to supplement net earnings on a basis prepared in conformance with GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting its business. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both net earnings and cash flows determined under GAAP as compared to adjusted earnings, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate.
 
9-9-9
 
Allergan also uses the financial measures adjusted cost of sales, adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses, adjusted research and development expenses and adjusted provision for income taxes, which are sub-components of adjusted earnings and adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share, for its full year 2009 guidance to provide a more complete understanding of the cost components affecting its business. Allergan includes these financial measures in the determination of adjusted earnings to evaluate its management's performance for compensation purposes and to assist in comparing certain of its costs to its competitors' costs. These adjusted cost measures do not take into account the non-core business items removed in its calculations of adjusted earnings and adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share and, therefore, are subject to the same limitations discussed above. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development expenses determined under GAAP as compared to the adjusted amounts included in this press release.
In this press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Reporting sales performance using constant currency sales has the limitation of excluding currency effects from the comparison of sales results over various periods, even though the effect of changing foreign currency exchange rates has an actual effect on Allergan's operating results. Investors should consider these effects in their overall analysis of Allergan's operating results.
 
10-10-10
 
 
 
11-11-11
 
 
 
 
 
12-12-12
 
 
 
13-13-13
 
 
 
14-14-14
 
 
 
15-15-15
 
 
16-16-16
 
 
 
17-17-17
 
 
 


