FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20100802155455.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 1, 2010, Allergan, Inc. (the "Allergan") and Douglas S. Ingram entered into a Letter of Understanding, dated August 1, 2010 (the "Agreement"), the effective date of Mr. Ingram's appointment to serve as Executive Vice President and President, Europe, Africa, Middle East, setting forth the terms and conditions of Mr. Ingram's expatriate assignment. The Agreement provides that Mr. Ingram's annual base salary will remain at US $550,800 and his target bonus for 2010 will remain at 72% of his year-end annualized base salary. Mr. Ingram continues to be eligible for U.S. executive perquisites and his current stock ownership guidelines and change in control benefits remain unchanged. The Agreement also provides that Allergan will provide Mr. Ingram certain benefits related to his international relocation, including but not limited to a one-time relocation allowance of one month's base salary (US $45,900), host country housing (GBP 10,500 per month), a cost of living adjustment (initially GBP 1,940 per month) and a one-time spousal allowance (US $3,000), as well as reimbursement of immigration costs, moving expenses, automobile expenses, and, subject to certain restrictions, the cost of private education and related expenses for dependent children.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


