FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20110131142601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 28, 2011, Allergan, Inc. and its affiliates Allergan Sales, LLC and Allergan USA, Inc. (collectively, "Allergan") entered into a Collaboration Agreement (the "Collaboration Agreement") and a Co-Promotion Agreement (the "Co-Promotion Agreement," and together with the Collaboration Agreement, the "Agreements") with MAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("MAP"), for the exclusive development and commercialization by Allergan and MAP of LEVADEX (the "Product") within the United States (the "Territory") to certain headache specialist physicians for the treatment of acute migraine in adults, migraine in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age and other indications that may be approved by the parties. The Product is a self-administered, orally inhaled therapy consisting of a proprietary formulation of dihydroergotamine delivered using MAP's proprietary TEMPO delivery system, which has completed Phase III clinical development for the treatment of acute migraine in adults. MAP currently intends to submit its New Drug Application for the Product (the "NDA") to the United States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") in the first half of 2011.
Under the terms of the Agreements, Allergan will make a $60 million up-front payment to MAP and up to $97 million in additional payments upon MAP meeting certain development and regulatory milestones. MAP will be responsible for obtaining approval of the NDA from the FDA. Generally, the parties will equally share in the profits from sales of the Product generated from its commercialization to headache specialist physicians in the Territory. MAP will be solely responsible for payment of all remaining costs of obtaining regulatory approval of the Product for the treatment of acute migraine in adults, except that if the FDA notifies MAP that additional development or manufacturing activities costing in excess of a certain threshold amount will be required for such regulatory approval, the parties will share equally any such excess costs. The parties will generally share equally all other costs of developing the Product under the Agreements, except that neither party shall be obligated for more than a certain threshold amount in a given year, or for more than a certain threshold amount in the aggregate, for development or manufacturing costs or expenses for such activities.
The Agreements provide that MAP will be responsible for manufacturing, supplying, and distributing the Product for commercial sale after regulatory approval, and for recording product revenue. MAP will retain all rights to commercialize the Product outside the United States and Canada, as well as to primary care physicians within the United States. Allergan has the right under certain circumstances to expand the Territory to include Canada. The parties will work through joint committees to manage all development and commercial activities under the Agreements.
The Collaboration Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and indemnities by each of the parties. The Collaboration Agreement may be terminated by Allergan (i) at its election after first commercial sale of the Product in the Territory upon 180 days' prior written notice to MAP, or (ii) upon written notice to MAP, after the receipt by MAP of a complete response letter from the FDA with respect to the NDA, which Allergan determines would be likely to result in either (a) Allergan incurring development expenses in excess of a certain threshold level or (b) a delay in the FDA's approval of the NDA by more than a certain period of time from receipt of such complete response letter. The Collaboration Agreement may be terminated by MAP upon written notice to Allergan, if (1) during the term Allergan commercializes a competing product used to treat acute migraine in the Territory, or (2) Allergan challenges or opposes patent rights licensed to Allergan pursuant to the Collaboration Agreement. Either party may terminate the Collaboration Agreement in the event of an uncured material breach by the other party. The Co-Promotion Agreement will terminate upon termination of the Collaboration Agreement.
The above summary does not purport to be a complete description of the terms of the Agreements and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreements, copies of which will be filed as exhibits to
Allergan's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010. Portions of the Agreements may be omitted in accordance with a request for confidential treatment that Allergan intends to submit to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
A copy of the press release announcing the collaboration contemplated by the Agreements is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by this reference.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
IRVINE, Calif. and MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif., January 31, 2011  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) and MAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq: MAPP) today announced a collaboration within the United States for LEVADEX, a self-administered, orally inhaled therapy that has completed Phase III clinical development for the treatment of acute migraine in adults. MAP Pharmaceuticals currently anticipates submitting its New Drug Application (NDA) for LEVADEX with the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the first half of 2011.
LEVADEX contains a proprietary formulation of dihydroergotamine (DHE), a drug delivered via IV, injection or nasal spray and used in clinical practice today for the treatment of acute migraine. Utilizing MAP Pharmaceuticals' proprietary drug delivery system, the TEMPO inhaler, the unique formulation can be self-administered by the patient and is absorbed through the lungs. If approved, LEVADEX may offer an easy to use, at-home therapy option for acute migraine sufferers.
Under the terms of the collaboration, following potential FDA approval of LEVADEX, Allergan and MAP Pharmaceuticals will co-promote LEVADEX to neurologists and pain specialists in the United States. Specifically, Allergan will leverage its existing U.S. sales force dedicated to headache specialists using BOTOX for Chronic Migraine, which will be complemented by MAP Pharmaceuticals' field sales force targeting neurologists and pain specialists. MAP Pharmaceuticals will retain all rights to commercialize LEVADEX outside the United States, as well as to primary care physicians within the United States.
"As a company devoted to the advancement of patient care in specialty areas, including neurosciences, we are pleased to partner with MAP Pharmaceuticals to realize the potential of LEVADEX," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "If approved by the FDA, LEVADEX would present a continuum of care to neurologists and pain specialists, LEVADEX for acute migraine patients and BOTOX for Chronic Migraine patients."
 
1
"Allergan is an established leader in neurosciences with a proven track record of scientific innovation, securing FDA approvals and commercializing products to neurologists and pain specialists in the United States," said Timothy S. Nelson, MAP Pharmaceuticals' President and Chief Executive Officer. "Their commitment to neurosciences and their understanding of the needs of our target physicians for LEVADEX have been demonstrated through the ongoing evolution of BOTOX, including its recent FDA approval for Chronic Migraine patients. They are the ideal partner to help us best serve this specialty segment and to provide the resources needed to successfully launch and commercialize LEVADEX upon potential FDA approval."
As part of the collaboration, MAP Pharmaceuticals will be responsible for the manufacturing and distribution of LEVADEX in the United States, and for recording product revenue. Leveraging Allergan's expertise in pursuing innovation and securing market authorization, the companies have also agreed, following potential approval of LEVADEX for the treatment of acute migraine in adults, to jointly develop LEVADEX for additional indications, including adolescent migraine and one additional headache disorder. The companies will work through joint committees to manage all development and commercial activities. MAP Pharmaceuticals will be responsible for obtaining NDA approval, and will retain ownership of the NDA.
MAP Pharmaceuticals will receive a $60 million up-front payment from Allergan and up to $97 million in additional payments upon meeting certain regulatory milestones associated with the initial indication. If LEVADEX receives FDA approval, the companies will equally share profits from sales of LEVADEX generated from its commercialization to neurologists and pain specialists in the United States.
MAP Pharmaceuticals Conference Call / Webcast Details
To participate in the live call today, on Monday, January 31, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (5:30 a.m. Pacific Time), please dial 877-280-7473 for domestic callers and 707-287-9370 for international callers. Individuals interested in listening to the call via webcast may do so by visiting the Investor Relations page of http://www.mappharma.com.
About LEVADEX Investigational Acute Migraine Therapy
LEVADEX is an investigational therapy for acute migraine that has completed Phase III clinical development. In the clinical trial, patients administered LEVADEX themselves using the proprietary TEMPO inhaler. LEVADEX contains a novel formulation of dihydroergotamine (DHE). LEVADEX was evaluated in the efficacy portion of FREEDOM-301, MAP Pharmaceuticals' Phase III pivotal trial, which included 395 patients in the LEVADEX arm and 397 patients in the placebo arm. In the Phase III trial, patients taking LEVADEX therapy had statistically significant improvement at two hours compared to patients on placebo for all four co-primary endpoints:
 
2
The most common adverse event reported was medication aftertaste at six percent versus two percent for placebo. The next most common adverse event was nausea at five percent compared with two percent for placebo. There were no decreases in lung function, as measured by spirometry, between the active and placebo groups.
About Migraine
Common symptoms of migraine include recurrent headaches, nausea, vomiting, photophobia (sensitivity to light) and phonophobia (sensitivity to sound). According to the National Headache Foundation, most migraines last between four and 24 hours, but some last as long as three days.
1
On average, migraine sufferers experience 1.5 migraine attacks monthly, although 25 percent of them experience one or more attacks weekly.
2
The economic burden of migraine remains substantial despite existing treatments, with the direct and indirect costs of migraine in the United States estimated at over $20 billion annually.
3
,
4
About BOTOX (onabotulinumtoxinA) Important Information
Indications
BOTOX is a prescription medicine that is injected into muscles and used:
 
 
 
 
BOTOX is also injected into the skin to treat the symptoms of severe underarm sweating (severe primary axillary hyperhidrosis) when medicines used on the skin (topical) do not work well enough in people 18 years and older.
It is not known whether BOTOX is safe or effective to prevent headaches in patients with migraine who have 14 or fewer headache days each month (episodic migraine).
It is not known whether BOTOX is safe or effective for other types of muscle spasms or for severe sweating anywhere other than your armpits.
 
 
Lipton, et al. Migraine Diagnosis and Treatment: Results From the American Migraine Study II. . 2001:41:638-645.
1
Headache
Lipton, et al. Prevalence and Burden of Migraine in the United States: Data from the American Migraine Study II. . 2001;41:646-657.
2
Headache
Hawkins, K, Wang, S, Rupnow, MFT. Direct Cost Burden Among Insured US Employees With Migraine. . 2008;48:553-563.
3
Headache
Hawkins, K, Wang, S, Rupnow, MFT. Indirect Cost Burden of Migraine in the United States. . 2007;49:368-374.
4
J Occup Environ Med
 
3
IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION
BOTOX may cause serious side effects that can be life threatening. Call your doctor or get medical help right away if you have any of these problems any time (hours to weeks) after injection of BOTOX:
 
 
There has not been a confirmed serious case of spread of toxin effect away from the injection site when BOTOX (onabotulinumtoxinA) has been used at the recommended dose to treat Chronic Migraine, severe underarm sweating, blepharospasm, or strabismus.
: are allergic to any of the ingredients in BOTOX (see Medication Guide for ingredients); had an allergic reaction to any other botulinum toxin product such as or ; have a skin infection at the planned injection site.
Do not take BOTOX if you
Myobloc
Dysport
For more information refer to the Medication Guide or talk with your doctor. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-108.
8
For more information on BOTOX (onabotulinumtoxinA) please see BOTOX full Product Information, including Medication Guide. Full Product Information, including Medication Guide has been provided to your doctor
About MAP Pharmaceuticals
MAP Pharmaceuticals is an emerging biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and commercializing new therapies to address undermet patient needs in neurology. The Company is developing LEVADEX orally inhaled therapy for the potential treatment of migraine and has reported positive results from the efficacy portion of its Phase 3 trial of LEVADEX. In addition, MAP Pharmaceuticals generates new pipeline opportunities by applying its proprietary drug particle and inhalation technologies to enhance the therapeutic benefits of proven drugs, while minimizing risk by capitalizing on their known safety, efficacy and commercialization history. Additional information about MAP Pharmaceuticals can be found at
http://www.mappharma.com
About Allergan, Inc.
 
4
Allergan is a multi-specialty health care company established 60 years ago with a commitment to uncover the best of science and develop and deliver innovative and meaningful treatments to help people reach their life's potential. Today, we have more than 9,000 highly dedicated and talented employees, global marketing and sales capabilities with a presence in more than 100 countries, a rich and ever-evolving portfolio of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices, and state-of-the-art resources in R&D, manufacturing and safety surveillance that help millions of patients see more clearly, move more freely and express themselves more fully. From our beginnings as an eye care company to our focus today on several medical specialties, including ophthalmology, neurosciences, obesity, urologics, medical aesthetics and dermatology, Allergan is proud to celebrate 60 years of medical advances and proud to support the patients and physicians who rely on our products and the employees and communities in which we live and work.
MAP Pharmaceuticals Forward-Looking Statements
In addition to statements of historical facts or statements of current conditions, this press release contains forward-looking statements, including with respect to the timing of the submission of the New Drug Application for MAP Pharmaceuticals' LEVADEX product candidate and the potential benefits from the collaboration between MAP Pharmaceuticals and Allergan. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on risks and uncertainties affecting the Company's business, including, without limitation, risks and uncertainties relating to clinical trials, the preparation and filing of a New Drug Application and the regulatory process to have the Company's LEVADEX product candidate approved for commercial use, the availability, pricing and marketing of competitive products, including generic products, any inability to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the collaboration arrangement fully or on the anticipated timeline, a downturn in the pharmaceutical industry and unexpected variations in market growth and demand for migraine products. The reader is cautioned not to unduly rely on the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. MAP Pharmaceuticals expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by law. Additional information on potential factors that could affect MAP Pharmaceuticals' results and other risks and uncertainties are detailed in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, available at http://edgar.sec.gov.
Allergan Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements," including, but not limited to, the statements by David E.I. Pyott and Timothy S. Nelson and other statements regarding clinical trials, the preparation and filing of a New Drug Application for LEVADEX, FDA approval of LEVADEX, manufacturing, distribution and sales of LEVADEX as well as the safety, effectiveness, approvals, adverse events and market potential of LEVADEX, BOTOX and BOTOX Cosmetic. These statements are based on current expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from Allergan's expectations and projections. Risks and uncertainties include, among other things, general industry and pharmaceutical market conditions; technological advances and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in the research and development and regulatory processes; challenges related to product marketing, such as the unpredictability of market acceptance for new products and/or the acceptance of new indications for such products; inconsistency of treatment results among patients; general economic conditions; and governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required by law. Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in Allergan's public periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the
 
5
discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Additional information about Allergan is available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
Map Pharmaceuticals Contacts
Nicole Foderaro
WCG
(415) 215-5643
nfoderaro@wcgworld.com
Allergan Contacts
2011 Allergan, Inc. Irvine, CA 92612 and MAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Mountain View, CA 94043.
BOTOX is a registered trademark owned by Allergan, Inc.
TEMPOis a registered trademark owned by MAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
LEVADEX is a trademark owned by MAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 
6


