FILE:AGN/AGN-8K-20120202093358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 2, 2012, Allergan, Inc. ("Allergan") issued a press release announcing operating results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2011. In its press release, Allergan included non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
This information and the information contained in the press release shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report is not incorporated by reference into any filings of Allergan made under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Current Report, regardless of any general incorporation language in the filing unless specifically stated so therein.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1 Allergan, Inc. press release dated February 2, 2012
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
(IRVINE, Calif., February 2, 2012)  Allergan, Inc. (NYSE: AGN) today announced operating results for the quarter ended December 31, 2011. Allergan also announced that its Board of Directors has declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.05 per share, payable on March 16, 2012 to stockholders of record on February 24, 2012.
Operating Results Attributable to Stockholders
For the quarter ended December 31, 2011:
 
 
Product Sales
For the quarter ended December 31, 2011:
 
 
 
"We are very pleased with our fourth quarter and full year growth of sales and profits, as well as the significant regulatory approvals received in 2010 and 2011," said David E.I. Pyott, Allergan's Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. "In 2012, we look forward to building on the momentum gained from the regulatory approvals, and increased investment in R&D to further strengthen our pipeline."
 
 
2-2-2
 
Based on internal information and assumptions, full year 2011 therapeutic sales accounted for approximately 51% of total BOTOX (onabotulinumtoxinA) sales and increased approximately 12% compared to 2010. Full year 2011 aesthetic sales accounted for approximately 49% of total BOTOX sales and increased approximately 12% compared to 2010.
Product and Pipeline Update
During the fourth quarter of 2011:
 
 
Following the end of the fourth quarter of 2011:
 
Outlook
For the full year of 2012, Allergan expects:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3-3-3
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the first quarter of 2012, Allergan expects:
 
 
In this press release, Allergan reports certain historical and expected non-GAAP results, including earnings attributable to Allergan, Inc., non-GAAP basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to stockholders as well as non-GAAP other revenues, non-GAAP cost of sales, non-GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses, non-GAAP research and development expenses, non-GAAP amortization of acquired intangible assets, non-GAAP legal settlement, non-GAAP impairment of intangible assets and related costs, non-GAAP restructuring charges, non-GAAP interest expense, non-GAAP other, net, non-GAAP earnings before income taxes, non-GAAP provision for income taxes, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP net sales reported in constant currency. Non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the financial tables of this press release and the accompanying footnotes. The information that accompanies the financial tables of this press release also includes an explanation of why Allergan uses these non-GAAP financial measures, certain limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP financial measures, the manner in which Allergan management compensates for those limitations, and the reasons why Allergan management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including but not limited to the statements by Mr. Pyott and other statements regarding product development, market potential, expected growth and regulatory approvals as well as Allergan's earnings per share, product net sales, revenue forecasts and any other statements that refer to Allergan's expected, estimated or anticipated future results. Because forecasts are inherently estimates that cannot be made with precision, Allergan's performance at times differs materially from its estimates and targets, and Allergan often does not know what the actual results will be until after the end of the applicable reporting period. Therefore, Allergan will not report or comment on its progress during a current quarter except through public announcement. Any statement made by others with respect to progress during a current quarter cannot be attributed to Allergan.
 
 
4-4-4
 
All forward-looking statements in this press release reflect Allergan's current analysis of existing trends and information and represent Allergan's judgment only as of the date of this press release. Actual results may differ materially from current expectations based on a number of factors affecting Allergan's businesses, including, among other things, the following: changing competitive, market and regulatory conditions; the timing and uncertainty of the results of both the research and development and regulatory processes; domestic and foreign health care and cost containment reforms, including government pricing, tax and reimbursement policies; technological advances and patents obtained by competitors; the performance, including the approval, introduction, and consumer and physician acceptance of new products and the continuing acceptance of currently marketed products; the effectiveness of advertising and other promotional campaigns; the timely and successful implementation of strategic initiatives; the results of any pending or future litigation, investigations or claims; the uncertainty associated with the identification of and successful consummation and execution of external corporate development initiatives and strategic partnering transactions; and Allergan's ability to obtain and successfully maintain a sufficient supply of products to meet market demand in a timely manner. In addition, U.S. and international economic conditions, including higher unemployment, financial hardship, consumer confidence and debt levels, taxation, changes in interest and currency exchange rates, international relations, capital and credit availability, the status of financial markets and institutions, as well as the general impact of continued economic volatility, can materially affect Allergan's results. Therefore, the reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Allergan expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements except as required to do so by law.
Additional information concerning the above-referenced risk factors and other risk factors can be found in press releases issued by Allergan, as well as Allergan's public periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under the heading "Risk Factors" in Allergan's 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of Allergan's press releases and additional information about Allergan are available at www.allergan.com or you can contact the Allergan Investor Relations Department by calling 714-246-4636.
About Allergan, Inc.
Allergan is a multi-specialty health care company established more than 60 years ago with a commitment to uncover the best of science and develop and deliver innovative and meaningful treatments to help people reach their life's potential. Today, we have approximately 10,000 highly dedicated and talented employees, global marketing and sales capabilities with a presence in more than 100 countries, a rich and ever-evolving portfolio of pharmaceuticals, biologics, medical devices and over-the-counter consumer products, and state-of-the-art resources in R&D, manufacturing and safety surveillance that help millions of patients see more clearly, move more freely and express themselves more fully. From our beginnings as an eye care company to our focus today on several medical specialties, including eye care, neurosciences, medical aesthetics, medical dermatology, breast aesthetics, obesity intervention and urologics, Allergan is proud to celebrate more than 60 years of medical advances and proud to support the patients and physicians who rely on our products and the employees and communities in which we live and work.
Allergan Contacts
Jim Hindman (714) 246-4636 (investors)
Joann Bradley (714) 246-4766 (investors)
David Nakasone (714) 246-6376 (investors)
Caroline Van Hove (714) 246-5134 (media)
and  marks owned by Allergan, Inc.
 
 
5-5-5
 
 
 
 
6-6-6
 
 
"GAAP" refers to financial information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, with respect to the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 and with respect to anticipated results for the first quarter and full year of 2012. Allergan believes that its presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplementary information to investors regarding its operational performance because it enhances an investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities by providing a basis for the comparison of results of core business operations between current, past and future periods. The presentation of historical non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for results as reported under GAAP.
In this press release, Allergan reported the non-GAAP financial measures "non-GAAP basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to Allergan, Inc. stockholders" and "non-GAAP earnings attributable to Allergan, Inc." and its subcomponents "non-GAAP other revenues," "non-GAAP cost of sales," "non-GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses," "non-GAAP research and development expenses," "non-GAAP amortization of acquired intangible assets," "non-GAAP legal settlement," "non-GAAP impairment of intangible assets and related costs," "non-GAAP restructuring charges," "non-GAAP operating income," "non-GAAP interest expense," "non-GAAP other, net," "non-GAAP earnings before income taxes," "non-GAAP provision for income taxes," and "non-GAAP net earnings." Allergan uses non-GAAP earnings to enhance the investor's overall understanding of the financial performance and prospects for the future of Allergan's core business activities. Non-GAAP earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of Allergan's business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses non-GAAP earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure Allergan's performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level. Allergan also uses non-GAAP earnings for evaluating management performance for compensation purposes.
Despite the importance of non-GAAP earnings in analyzing Allergan's underlying business, the budgeting and forecasting process and designing incentive compensation, non-GAAP earnings has no standardized meaning defined by GAAP. Therefore, non-GAAP earnings has limitations as an analytical tool, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of Allergan's results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are:
 
Allergan compensates for these limitations by using non-GAAP earnings only to supplement net earnings on a basis prepared in conformance with GAAP in order to provide a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting its business. Allergan strongly encourages investors to consider both net earnings and cash flows determined under GAAP as compared to non-GAAP earnings, and to perform their own analysis, as appropriate.
 
 
7-7-7
 
In this press release, Allergan also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency sales represent current period reported sales adjusted for the translation effect of changes in average foreign exchange rates between the current period and the corresponding period in the prior year. Allergan calculates the currency effect by comparing adjusted current period reported amounts, calculated using the monthly average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year, to the actual current period reported amounts. Management refers to growth rates at constant currency so that sales results can be viewed without the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of Allergan's sales. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates will be higher or lower, respectively, than growth reported at actual exchange rates.
Reporting sales performance using constant currency sales has the limitation of excluding currency effects from the comparison of sales results over various periods, even though the effect of changing foreign currency exchange rates has an actual effect on Allergan's operating results. Investors should consider these effects in their overall analysis of Allergan's operating results.
 
 
8-8-8
 
 
 
 
9-9-9
 
 
 
 
10-10-10
 
 
 
 
11-11-11
 
 
 
 
12-12-12
 
 
 
 
13-13-13
 
 
 
14-14-14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15-15-15
 
 
 
 


