FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20031107084932.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
      
Table of Contents
Item 7. Exhibits
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Conditions
     DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with its earnings release issued November 7, 2003 announcing financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the earnings release, the information distributed for media and investor relations communications and the slide presentations of DTE Energy are furnished as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 to this report and contain the reconciliation and representations required by the SEC's Regulation G.
Forward-Looking Statements:
     This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2002 Form 10-K Item 1 (incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 7, 2003
 
 
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Nov. 7, 2003
DTE ENERGY REPORTS THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS; COMMENTS ON 2003 PERFORMANCE
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE: DTE) today reported net income of $176 million, or $1.04 per diluted share for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2003, compared with reported earnings of $161 million, or $0.96 per diluted share for the same period last year. Operating earnings for the third quarter 2003 were $114 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, which is comparable with operating earnings of $120 million, or $0.72 per diluted share for the same period in 2002.
     Reported net income for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2003 was $292 million, or $1.73 per diluted share versus $429 million or $2.62 per diluted share in 2002. Year-to-date operating earnings were $362 million, or $2.15 per diluted share, compared with $387 million, or $2.36 per diluted share in 2002.
     A reconciliation of reported to operating earnings for both the quarter ended and nine months ended Sept. 30 is at the end of this release.
     "Our third quarter results reflect the continuing challenges of a very difficult year for our two utilities," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "During the quarter, we experienced a cool summer, a windstorm in July and the August blackout. This is in addition to the pressures that the company has experienced throughout 2003, including the continued loss of customer load due to electric Customer Choice, soft economic conditions and increased pension and healthcare costs."
     Year-to-date, operating earnings at Detroit Edison are down 34 percent from last year, and down 29 percent at MichCon.
     "While some of this impact is due to mild weather," Earley said, "our utility businesses are clearly under financial stress. We have been able to offset some of this earnings pressure with cost improvement initiatives across the company and will aggressively continue these efforts."
     He noted that although it will be challenging to achieve, the lower end of previously issued operating earnings guidance of $3.10  $3.30 per share is still within reach.
     "Looking ahead to 2004," Earley said, "it is critical that the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) fix the structural flaws in Michigan's electric Customer Choice program and act expeditiously on our rate requests for Detroit Edison and MichCon. In addition to these regulatory actions, we plan to introduce legislation to reshape the Customer Choice program in a manner that is fair to all customers, while allowing for financially healthy Michigan utilities."
     David E. Meador, DTE Energy senior vice president and chief financial officer, added, "Despite the current cost pressures and challenges at our regulated businesses, we continue to see stable performance in our non-regulated business portfolio. We are pleased that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has concluded its review of the synthetic fuel chemical change process, and we can focus our efforts on pursuing a range of attractive non-regulated growth opportunities, such as waste coal recovery and coal bed methane." I believe that DTE Energy remains a financially sound company 
 
our balance sheet is strong and our liquidity position is solid with the recently completed successful renewal of our $1.3 billion credit facility."
Operating earnings results for the third quarter of 2003, by business unit, were as follows:
 
     DTE Energy's reported earnings for the third quarter included a positive $82 million effective tax rate adjustment. This quarterly adjustment is required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to maintain a quarterly effective tax rate consistent with the estimated annual rate and does not impact total year earnings. This adjustment is primarily necessary because the company's pre-tax income and Section 29 tax credits earned from its synthetic fuels business have different quarterly profiles.
Recent Events and Developments
Detroit Edison incurred approximately $25 million (pre-tax) of direct costs and $14 million (pre-tax) in lost margin associated with the unprecedented restoration efforts from the Aug. 14 blackout. On Oct. 24, Detroit Edison filed an accounting application with the MPSC requesting authority to defer its outage-related direct costs until a future rate proceeding. Detroit Edison will not seek to recover the $14 million of margin it lost during the blackout. The impact of the blackout costs was recorded in the third quarter and reflected in reported earnings; it is anticipated that an offsetting regulatory asset will be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2003 or the first quarter 2004.
Blackout
The negative financial impacts of Michigan's electric Customer Choice program continue to be a major challenge for Detroit Edison. The company estimates that it will lose between $80 million and $100 million of margin in 2003 under the Choice program, partially offset by approximately $40 million of regulatory assets expected to be recorded in 2003 related to recoverable stranded costs. The current program has created an artificial market by mandating subsidies paid by Detroit Edison to Choice customers to leave the utility. In addition, Detroit Edison retains the provider of last resort obligation and must take Choice customers back at regulated/non-market based rates. Michigan Public Act 141 of 2000, which created the Choice program, also provides for the recovery of economic harm created by Choice, but thus far no regulatory recovery has been implemented. The company is actively working to address the current flaws in the program on both the regulatory and legislative fronts.
Electric Choice
In September, the company divested its interest in the Portland Natural Gas Transmission System to Gaz Metropolitan and TransCanada for approximately $31 million. In October, the company acquired an additional 15 percent interest in the Vector Pipeline for approximately $73 million from Duke Energy. These transactions strategically realign our pipeline portfolio by divesting of a non-strategic, out-of-region asset and increasing our investment in a strategic, in-region asset.
Pipeline Investments
 
On Sept. 30, MichCon filed two proposals with the MPSC. The first proposal will reduce the Gas Cost Recovery rate to customers from the current price of $5.75 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas to $5.36 per Mcf. The second proposal requests an increase in base rates of $194 million per year beginning Jan. 1, 2005, with interim relief of $154 million effective no later than April 1, 2004. It is the first increase in service and distribution charges that the company has sought in more than a decade. The net effect of these requests would increase residential rates by an average of 7 percent.
MichCon Rate Case Filing
On Oct. 29, the IRS announced that it had resumed its long-standing practice of issuing private letter rulings (PLRs) for synthetic fuel facilities. This announcement eliminated the near-term uncertainty created by the recent IRS review of synthetic fuel chemical change testing procedures. The company believes its synthetic fuel facilities currently meet the new, more stringent sampling and data/record retention requirements announced by the IRS for issuance of PLRs and it expects to receive PLRs in the near term. The company continues its efforts to sell interests in a number of its synthetic fuel projects, now that the issuance of PLRs has resumed. DTE Energy also will assess the impact of the IRS'announcement on current production levels at its synthetic fuel facilities. Production levels could be increased or decreased depending on various factors, including the sale of interests in its synthetic fuel facilities or changes in taxable earnings.
Synthetic Fuels
DTE Energy has made significant progress toward commercial recovery of a previously untapped energy resource  fine coal from abandoned fine-coal slurry ponds. The proprietary technology has the potential to produce useful fuel from the estimated one billion to three billion tons of coal that now sits in slurry ponds throughout the country. Difficulty separating the coal from other materials and impurities has prevented use of this resource in meaningful volumes until now. Our subsidiary  DTE PepTec Inc.  is moving toward commercial operation at its facility to recover and process fine coal from a slurry pond. The facility, located near Cadiz, Ohio, has the capacity to produce more than 500,000 tons of fine coal per year. We anticipate a substantial market for this technology and plan to aggressively pursue expansion opportunities.
Waste Coal Recovery Business
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is available on the company's website at www.dteenergy.com on the "Investors" page.
     DTE Energy will conduct a conference call with the investment community at 9 a.m. EST Friday, Nov. 7, to discuss third quarter earnings results. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the DTE Energy conference call at www.dteenergy.com.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
     The information contained in this document is as of the date of this news release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This news release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's
 
financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, timing and extent of changes in interest rates; access to the capital markets and capital market conditions and other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings requirements; ability to utilize Section 29 tax credits or sell interest in facilities producing such credits; the level of borrowings; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and actual sales; economic climate and growth in the geographic areas in which DTE Energy does business; unplanned outages; the cost of protecting assets against or damage due to terrorism; nuclear regulations and risks associated with nuclear operations; the grant of rate relief by the MPSC for the utilities; changes in the cost of fuel, purchased power and natural gas; the effects of competition; the implementation of electric and gas customer choice programs; the implementation of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan; environmental issues, including changes in the climate, and regulations, and the contributions to earnings by non-regulated businesses. This news release should also be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2002 Form 10-K Item 1, and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, MichCon and Detroit Edison.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
Analysts  For Further Information:
Investor Relations (313) 235-8030
 
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key

 
Exhibit 99.2
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, 10K and 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
 
Key:
A            Blackoust costs B            Adjustment of EITF 98-10 accounting change  flowback of cumulative effect C            Loss on sale of steam heating business D            Disallowance of gas costs E            Contribution to DTE Energy Foundation F            Tax credit driven normalization G            Adjusted gain on sale of ITC
 
The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
* Includes pension contribution of $222 million.
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q.
(A) Represents MichCon's results included in the DTE Energy Consolidated Statement of Operations. n/m  not meaningful
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


