FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20031114171941.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
     Today, November 14, 2003, DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") issued a Press Release in which it announced it sold majority interests in three of its synthetic fuel facilities. For a detailed discussion, please see DTE Energy's Press Release dated November 14, 2003, attached as Exhibit 99.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
   (c) Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's 2002 Form 10-K Item 1 (incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99
November 14, 2003
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) announced today that it has sold majority interests in three synthetic fuel facilities.
     The sale of interests will allow the company to increase production levels at its synthetic fuel facilities for the balance of 2003. The increase in production is expected to have a positive impact of seven to ten cents per share on the company's 2003 earnings. The company's 2003 operating earnings guidance remains unchanged, at the low end of $3.10 to $3.30 per share.
     Synthetic fuel facilities chemically change coal, including waste and marginal coal, into a fuel used at power plants and other industrial facilities. With completion of the sales today, four synthetic fuel facilities remain wholly owned by the company. The company indicated it would continue efforts to sell interests in its remaining synthetic fuel facilities.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its largest operating companies are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at .
www.dteenergy.com
This news release contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's 2002 Form 10-K Item 1 (incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:


