FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20030502135323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
     
Table of Contents
Item 7.    Exhibits
Item 9.    Information Provided Under Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
                 DTE Energy Company is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with its earnings release issued May 2, 2003 announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. This information is provided to the SEC under Item 12 of Form 8-K. A copy of the press release and slide presentation are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report and contain the reconciliation and representations required by the SEC's Regulation G.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
May 2, 2003
DTE ENERGY REPORTS FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS
     DETROIT  DTE Energy Co. (NYSE: DTE) today reported first quarter 2003 earnings of $155 million, or $0.92 per diluted share, compared with $200 million, or $1.24 per diluted share last year. These earnings include several non-recurring items and accounting changes.
     Operating earnings (which exclude non-recurring items, tax credit driven normalization, discontinued operations, and cumulative effect of accounting changes) for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003 were $178 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, which is comparable with operating earnings of $181 million, or $1.12 per diluted share for the same period in 2002.
     DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings power from ongoing operations, and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors regarding its earnings outlook and results. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the DTE Energy Board of Directors. The attached statements at the end of this release show, on an after tax-basis, the specific items included in DTE Energy's reported earnings, but excluded from operating earnings.
     "DTE Energy posted reasonable first quarter operating earnings versus last year, given the uncertainties of the current market," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "This quarter's performance clearly illustrates the benefits of our business portfolio approach."
     "Our non-regulated businesses showed another period of strong earnings, led by our coal-based synthetic fuels business and energy trading," he said. "This increase partially offset the year-over-year cost pressures at our regulated electric and gas utilities. As I indicated at our annual shareholders meeting, we will pursue a rate case to address these cost pressures with the Michigan Public Service Commission for both Detroit Edison and MichCon. We plan on filing the electric rate case this quarter and the gas rate case later this year."
     Operating earnings results for the first quarter of 2003, by business unit, were as follows:
 
     "This is a challenging year, with several key drivers of our earnings, such as summer weather and the pace of economic recovery, yet to play out," Earley said. "Our business plan remains on track, although we expect a change in the mix of earnings contributions from DTE Energy's businesses."
     "We anticipate lower full-year earnings from our regulated electric business, based on first quarter results, as well as the costs associated with a catastrophic ice storm that hit our service area last month and left more than 400,000 customers without power," he said. "Our non-regulated businesses, however, had a strong first quarter, and we believe that these operations, led by our synthetic fuels business and energy trading operations, are poised to outperform our original earnings expectations for the year."
 
     "Navigating the challenges of a soft economy and escalating cost pressures continues to be a priority for DTE Energy," Earley continued. "We have a committed management team, dedicated employees, and a solid game plan in place to meet these challenges, and deliver positive results."
     The company also clarified its 2003 operating earnings guidance. The previous 2003 operating earnings guidance, $3.90  $4.10 per share, included the earnings from its transmission business, with a business as usual assumption. Now that the transmission business has been sold, it is classified as a discontinued operation and the associated 2003 earnings from this business will not be in operating earnings. The company is maintaining its earnings guidance on a comparable basis, but adjusting it to reflect the sale of the transmission business. As a result, 2003 operating earnings guidance is now $3.75  $3.95 per share. The reconciliation of the company's 2003 operating earnings guidance to reported earnings can be found at the end of this release.
     David E. Meador, DTE Energy senior vice president and chief financial officer, commented on other financial highlights of the quarter:
     "In these uncertain times, we continue our commitment to financial stability and responsible growth," Meador said. "During the first quarter, we closed the sale of our transmission business, and used a portion of proceeds from the sale to further strengthen an already solid balance sheet. We also successfully issued $400 million in 30-year notes at extremely attractive interest rates, demonstrating our ready access to the capital markets."
     "The company's debt/equity ratio, at 51 percent, is well within our target range of 50 to 55 percent," he continued. "DTE Energy remains a financially sound, well-positioned company."
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is available on the company's website at in the "Investors" page.
www.dteenergy.com
     DTE Energy will conduct a conference call with the investment community at 2:00 p.m. EDT on Friday, May 2, to discuss first quarter earnings results. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the DTE Energy conference call at .
www.dteenergy.com
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at .
www.dteenergy.com
The information contained in this document is as of the date of this news release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and
 
conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This news release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, timing and extent of changes in interest rates; access to the capital markets and capital market conditions and other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings required; ability to utilize Section 29 tax credits or sell interest in facilities producing such credits; the level of borrowings; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and actual sales; economic climate and growth in the geographic areas in which DTE Energy does business; unplanned outages; the cost of protecting assets against or damage due to terrorism; nuclear regulations and risks associated with nuclear operations; changes in the cost of fuel, purchased power and natural gas; the effects of competition; the implementation of electric and gas customer choice programs; the implementation of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan; environmental issues, including changes in the climate, and regulations, and the contributions to earnings by non-regulated businesses. This news release should also be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2002 Form 10-K Item 1, and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, MichCon and Detroit Edison.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
Analysts  For Further Information:
Investor Relations (313) 235-8030
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


