FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20030728084843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure-Information Provided Under Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition)
     DTE Energy Company is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with its earnings release issued July 28, 2003 announcing financial results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2003. This information is provided to the SEC under Item 12 of Form 8-K. A copy of the earnings release and the information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report and contain the reconciliation and representations required by the SEC's Regulation G.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 28, 2003
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
July 28, 2003
DTE ENERGY REPORTS SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE: DTE) today reported a loss of $23 million, or $0.13 per diluted share for the second quarter ended June 30, 2003, compared with reported earnings of $68 million, or $0.42 per diluted share for the same period last year. Operating earnings for the second quarter 2003 were $79 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, which is comparable to operating earnings of $86 million, or $0.53 per diluted share for the same period in 2002.
     Reported earnings for the six months ended June 30, 2003 were $132 million, or $0.79 per share versus $268 million or $1.66 per share in 2002. Year-to-date operating earnings were $257 million, or $1.53 per share, compared to $267 million, or $1.65 per share in 2002.
     A reconciliation of reported to operating earnings per share for both the quarter ended and six months ended June 30 can be found at the end of this release. DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings power from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors regarding its earnings outlook and results. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the DTE Energy Board of Directors.
     Operating earnings results for the second quarter of 2003, by business unit, were as follows:
 
     DTE Energy's reported earnings for the second quarter include a negative $100 million effective tax rate adjustment. This quarterly adjustment is required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to maintain a quarterly effective tax rate consistent with the estimated annual rate and does not impact total year earnings. This adjustment is necessary because the company's quarterly pre-tax income and Section 29 tax credits earned from its synthetic fuels business have different quarterly profiles. Typically, tax credits recognized are shifted from the first two quarters to the second half of the year. The company's reduction in its synthetic fuel production levels in the second half of the year (announced June 17, 2003) magnifies this shift and subsequently produced a higher effective tax rate adjustment in the second quarter. In addition, this reduction causes the total year effective tax rate to increase.
     "Our weak second-quarter results demonstrate the continued cost pressures that hinder our two utilities, Detroit Edison and MichCon," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "We continue to face rising costs of pensions and healthcare benefits, and to make investments to improve our infrastructure and customer service. Neither Detroit Edison nor MichCon have had a rate increase in nearly a decade. It is critical that both utilities be granted rate relief by the Michigan Public Service Commission at the earliest possible date to ensure their continued financial health.
     "In addition, it is essential that structural changes to the state's Customer Choice program be implemented in a timely fashion," Earley said. "The program, as structured, sends incorrect pricing signals to program participants and places the cost burden of the program with Detroit Edison. This structure is neither competitive nor sustainable and further exacerbates the financial pressures facing the company."
     Concerning the company's non-regulated businesses, Earley said that while DTE Energy's non-regulated businesses posted year-over-year growth, a business decision was announced June 17, 2003, to reduce the production levels at the company's synthetic fuels business until there was more certainty regarding the timing and outcome of the IRS review of chemical change.
     "Lower production volumes will negatively impact the financial performance of this business this year but it was a prudent decision given the company's inability to fully use the tax credits that this business generates and the uncertainty of the IRS review," Earley said. "As we work with the IRS to resolve this issue, we continue our strategy of expanding our portfolio of non-regulated businesses to ensure future growth opportunities for DTE Energy."
     David E. Meador, DTE Energy senior vice president and chief financial officer, commented on other financial issues.
 
     "Our already strong cash flow, liquidity and leverage metrics remain on target for the year," Meador said. "We continue to aggressively manage capital expenditures and costs within our control to improve our financial health. We believe that DTE Energy remains a financially sound, well-positioned company. We look forward to a favorable resolution to the uncertainties surrounding our pending rate cases and the IRS' synthetic fuel review so that we may emerge an even stronger company."
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is available on the company's website at www.dteenergy.com in the "Investors" page.
     DTE Energy will provide an overview of its second quarter earnings and its financial outlook for 2003 as part of its webcast meeting with the investment community at 8:30 a.m. EDT Friday, Aug. 1. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the DTE Energy webcast at www.dteenergy.com.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
     The information contained in this document is as of the date of this news release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This news release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, timing and extent of changes in interest rates; access to the capital markets and capital market conditions and other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings required; resolution of the IRS review of chemical change at synthetic fuel facilities; ability to utilize Section 29 tax credits or sell interest in facilities producing such credits; the level of borrowings; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and actual sales; economic climate and growth in the geographic areas in which DTE Energy does business; unplanned outages; the cost of protecting assets against or damage due to terrorism; nuclear regulations and risks associated with nuclear operations; the grant of rate relief by the MPSC for the utilities; changes in the cost of fuel, purchased power and natural gas; the effects of competition; the implementation of electric and gas customer choice programs; the implementation of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan; environmental issues, including changes in the climate, and regulations, and the contributions to earnings by non-regulated businesses. This news release should also be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2002 Form 10-K Item 1, and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, MichCon and Detroit Edison.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
Analysts  For Further Information:
Investor Relations (313) 235-8030
 
 
 
Adjustments Key

 
Exhibit 99.2
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, 10K and 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
 
Key:
A  Coal based fuels includes a $9.6 million (net of tax) reserve for a potential uncollectible account B  Merchant generation includes a $20 million (net of tax) gain associated with the termination of a long-term tolling contract C  Effective tax rate adjustment D  Reported was (38), which included a (25) effective tax rate adjustment E  Includes energy technology investments F  Gain on sale of International Transmission Company
 
The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
Electric  Detroit Edison Service Area (MWh)
Gas  MichCon Service Area (Mcf)
Weather
(Detroit Edison service area)
Cooling Degree Days
(MichCon service area)
Heating Degree Days


