FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20030620092740.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
     Today, June 20, 2003, The Detroit Edison Company ("Detroit Edison"), a subsidiary of DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy"), issued a Press Release in which it announced that it would file a request with the Michigan Public Service Commission for a transitional rate plan. This is Detroit Edison's first request for a rate increase in over a decade. For a detailed discussion, please see Detroit Edison's Press Release dated June 20, 2003, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
  (c) Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
     Attached and incorporated into this Item 9 by reference as Exhibit 99.2 is a copy of Detroit Edison's summary, as posted on DTE Energy's website at http://www.dteenergy.com, of its request to the Michigan Public Service Commission to increase Detroit Edison's rates.
     :
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2002 Form 10-K Item 1 (incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
June 20, 2003
     DETROIT  Detroit Edison today will file a request with the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) for a transitional rate plan that would gradually increase customer rates over the next three years. It is the first rate increase the company has requested in more than a decade. Detroit Edison is an investor-owned electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan and a subsidiary of DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE).
     For residential customers, the proposed increase would not take effect until 2006 because rates are capped at current levels through the end of 2005. Rates for small commercial customers are capped through the end of 2004, meaning the proposed rates wouldn't take effect for those customers until 2005. Some large commercial and industrial customers would see the impact of the increase beginning next year, as the current rate caps for this customer group expire at the end of 2003.
     "We understand that rate increases are never welcome," said Anthony F. Earley, Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "But, even with the increases we have proposed, electric rates will be very close to those charged in 1992. In fact, for many residential customers, monthly electric bills in 2006 will be only 50 cents higher than they were in 1992."
     The increase is necessary, Earley said, to cover increasing environmental compliance costs, to ensure continued investment in Detroit Edison's infrastructure and to meet rising healthcare and pensions costs. Earley also cited the need to recover costs associated with the implementation of the state's "Electric Choice" program, under which customers can choose an alternative electric provider.
     Residential customers today actually pay 11 percent less for electricity than they did in 1992, Earley said, because Detroit Edison has lowered rates several times during the past decade. When adjusted for inflation, residential electric rates are currently about 40 percent lower in real terms than in 1992. Even after the proposed increase, electric rates for residential customers would still be approximately 30 percent lower than 1992 levels, when adjusted for inflation.
 
     Detroit Edison residential customers today pay $43.45 per month for electric service, based on 500 killowatthours of usage. In 1992, those same customers paid $48.74 per month. Under Detroit Edison's proposal, residential customers using 500 killowatthours would pay $49.24 per month starting in 2006  an increase of only 50 cents over 1992 levels.
     Under the transitional rate plan, large business customers would see an increase of 9.5 percent starting in 2004  when rate caps for that class of customer expire. A typical small business customer would see an increase of 10.4 percent beginning in 2005. Residential customers would see an average 12.7 percent increase in 2006 when current rate caps expire.
     Earley said Detroit Edison needs the rate increase to continue infrastructure improvements necessary to provide high-quality, reliable service to the company's 2.1 million electric customers, noting that the utility has spent $3 billion on distribution system upgrades over the last 10 years.
     Detroit Edison has spent more than $480 million on mandated environmental compliance during the past decade, Earley said, with an additional $300 million to $400 million in expenditures forecast over the next five to eight years. New federal environmental proposals pending will add significantly to compliance costs, he added.
     Like most major employers, Detroit Edison is facing rapidly escalating costs related to healthcare and pension benefits, Earley said. Three consecutive years of decline in the stock market has caused substantial reductions in the value of the company's pension plan, Earley said. The company also has faced three straight years of double-digit healthcare cost increases, "with no end in sight."
     A major issue facing Detroit Edison is developing a recovery mechanism for costs associated with the state's Electric Choice program  as contemplated and permitted under the law. Since Jan. 1, 2002, all electric customers in Michigan have been able to choose their electricity supplier. Currently, alternate suppliers are serving about 10 percent of Detroit Edison's electric load. Under the state's program, Detroit Edison must maintain plant capacity to accommodate the potential for customers who return to Detroit Edison.
     "Legislation that restructured the electric industry in 2000 authorized electric companies to recover costs associated with the Electric Choice program," Earley said, adding that the MPSC recently launched a collaborative process  involving all stakeholders  to develop an appropriate cost-recovery system.
     Earley said the transitional rate plan will address significant cost pressures facing the company, and allow Detroit Edison to continue providing quality service to its customers.
 
     "While the electric industry has experienced significant changes in recent years, rates for Detroit Edison customers have decreased amidst an environment of increasing costs," Earley said. "We believe the transitional rate plan we filed today offers fair prices and value to our customers while providing a reasonable rate of return for our shareholders."
     Additional information on the rate request is available in the Investor section of the DTE Energy website, at http://www.dteenergy.com.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's principal operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and Michigan Consolidated Gas Co. (MichCon), a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan.
This news release contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2002 Form 10-K Item 1 (incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:

 
Exhibit 99.2
June 20, 2003
TO THE INVESTMENT COMMUNITY
1
:
As detailed in today's press release, The Detroit Edison Company ("Detroit Edison" or the "Company") will file today an application for a change in retail electric rates, resumption of the Power Supply Cost Recovery ("PSCR") mechanism, and recovery of net stranded costs with the Michigan Public Service Commission ("MPSC"). This document provides additional detail about today's filing.
Introduction
Detroit Edison's last base rate case was ten years ago. Residential customers today actually pay 11 percent less for electricity than they did in 1992, because Detroit Edison has lowered rates several times during the past decade. When adjusted for inflation, electric rates are about 40 percent lower in real terms than in 1992. Taken in this context, we believe that the rate increase reflected in our filing is reasonable and modest.
We believe that our filing request can accomplish the following for Detroit Edison:
This document includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", and similar words. These statements should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy Company's "DTE Energy" and Detroit Edison's 2002 Form 10-K Item 1 (incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially, including, but not limited to, the speed and nature of regulatory approvals. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
1
 
Rate Impact on Detroit Edison Customers
The Company is seeking approval of its proposed base rate increases for all rate classes. For residential customers, the proposed base rate increase will not take effect until 2006, because rates are capped for this rate class at current levels through the end of 2005. Rates for small commercial and industrial customers are capped through the end of 2004, meaning the proposed rates wouldn't take effect until 2005. Large commercial and industrial customers will see the effects of the increase beginning next year, when the current rate freeze for this rate class expires on December 31, 2003. However, the Company is also proposing that base rates for the customer classes still subject to rate caps in 2004 and 2005 be adjusted in an equal and offsetting amount with any change in PSCR factor to maintain the total rate level currently in affect.
For full service customers, the proposed base rate change will be applied as an equal percent increase of 8.02 % to the bills of residential, small commercial/industrial and large commercial/industrial customers, subsequent to cap expirations for the class, as outlined in the following table
.
In addition to these base rate increases, the Company proposes surcharges to recover certain deferred regulatory assets beginning in 2004. The proposed surcharges will be phased in through 2006 due to the rate caps, and will apply to both full service customers and customers who under Act 141 (defined later in this document) have the opportunity to choose alternative electric suppliers ("Electric Choice "), we call these customers "Electric Choice customers". The proposed surcharges for each customer class are outlined in the following table.
 
For Electric Choice customers, the Company is requesting a rate increase through the application of class specific net stranded cost charges and increases in the Retail Access Service Tariff ("RAST") as noted below.
Highlights of Detroit Edison's Request
 
Background  Detroit Edison's Regulatory Environment
Restructuring of the electric utility industry in Michigan moved forward when Customer Choice and Electric Reliability Act 141 ("Act 141") was enacted in June 2000. Act 141 required, among other things, that all electric residential customers of Detroit Edison were to receive an immediate five percent reduction in rates and that rates of the remaining retail electric customers should be reduced by up to five percent if the utility securitized specified qualified costs, and the securitization provided sufficient savings to allow for the reduction. Thereafter, the rates for all customers were to be frozen (cannot be increased or decreased) through December 31, 2003.
Commencing on January 1, 2002, Act 141 also gave customers of Detroit Edison the opportunity to exercise a choice as to who would be their electric supplier in return for the utility's right to recover net stranded costs created by customers choosing an alternative electric supplier. Unlike electric restructuring initiatives in other states, Michigan utilities were not required by Act 141 to divest their generating assets as part of this restructuring effort, and retained the obligation to serve all customers within their service territory, including those that choose to leave but subsequently decide to return.
After the passage of Act 141, the MPSC, in an order issued in June 2000, reduced Detroit Edison's residential electric rates by five percent and imposed a rate freeze for all classes of customers through December 31, 2003. The freeze included a suspension of the PSCR mechanism. In April 2001, the rates for large commercial and industrial customers were also lowered by five percent as a result of savings derived from the issuance of securitization bonds in March 2001.
The Act 141 rate freeze ends on January 1, 2004. However, the rates for all retail customers will remain capped (can be decreased, not increased) unless Detroit Edison demonstrates that: (1) it has completed the necessary MPSC approved actions to expand transmission import capability into Michigan by 2,000 MW and (2) that it satisfies a market power test defined within Act 141. On May 29, 2003, the Company filed an affidavit before the MPSC indicating that it had completed all required transmission system improvements to satisfy the import capability requirement. On the same date, the Company also filed testimony and exhibits demonstrating that it will meet the market power test as defined in Act 141. A decision on this case is expected before the end of the year.
 
Act 141 entitles Detroit Edison to full recovery of the costs associated with the implementation of its Electric Choice program, as well as all net stranded costs caused by customers choosing an alternative electric supplier. Detroit Edison has established a regulatory asset to defer recovery of its approved implementation costs and incurred net stranded costs, which are subject to review in a subsequent annual net stranded cost proceeding.
Structural Changes are needed for Michigan's Electric Market
Act 141 was purposely enacted as a transitional step when complete deregulation of electric service was anticipated. This transitional structure is not sustainable over the long term for numerous reasons. These reasons include:
Emerging Cost Pressures at Detroit Edison
In addition to the required structural changes to Michigan's electric market, Detroit Edison is facing a number of current and emerging cost pressures that must be addressed:
 
The collective financial impact of these issues, when coupled with the expiration of the rate freeze period embedded within Act 141, has led to Detroit Edison's decision to request an increase in base rates in this filing.
Main Components of Detroit Edison's Rate Request
 
 
Financial Assumptions
Detroit Edison's filing uses calendar year 2004 as the test year. We are requesting an allowed ROE of 11.5%, using a target permanent capital structure of 50% debt and 50% common equity. We are assuming an associated equity level of $3.236 billion at Detroit Edison. This target capital structure differs from Detroit Edison's current capital structure, which, at March 31, 2003, was composed of $3.41 billion (56.2%) debt and $2.65 billion (43.8%) equity. The targeted capital structure anticipates certain actions likely to be taken to infuse equity into Detroit Edison to address the deterioration in its capital structure due to several one-time items discussed below.
Over the last 2 years Detroit Edison's equity has declined by a total of $1.3 billion. Of this, $850 million was due to the re-purchase of common equity from DTE Energy with the proceeds from the Company's securitization financing; $327 million was due to the spinout of International Transmission Company ("ITC") to DTE Energy; and $121 million was due to a restructuring charge associated with the reduction in Detroit Edison's workforce to ensure that cost synergies from the MCN Energy Group merger were realized.
As a result of these transactions, Detroit Edison's common equity ratio was reduced substantially below the Company's target common equity ratio of 50-55 percent and below the 50 percent level the MPSC found appropriate in Detroit Edison's 2001 securitization case.
 
Accordingly, equity infusions have been made, and we anticipate they will continue to be made, (subject to market conditions among other things), to restore Detroit Edison's common equity ratio to at least 50 percent. This allows for a capital structure target level consistent with our long-term balance sheet goals and credit rating requirements.
Detroit Edison Financial Performance and Rationale for Rate Relief Requested
In 2002, Detroit Edison earned a 13.6% ROE with extremely favorable weather and a lower common equity level than in years past serving as the main drivers of this financial result. Detroit Edison was able to offset a substantial portion of its increased costs with the excess savings achieved from its suspended PSCR clause. 2002 earnings results, while good, will be difficult to sustain into 2003 and beyond.
2003 is proving to be a challenging year for Detroit Edison as increases in pension and healthcare costs, and the impacts of a slow economy continue. We anticipate that Detroit Edison's earnings challenges will intensify in 2004 and beyond without rate relief from the MPSC. The Company will continue to face the financial stress of increased pension and healthcare costs, investments to improve its infrastructure, and the adverse financial impacts of the Electric Choice Program. The impact of these factors is illustrated below, and serves as the basis for the amount of the Company's rate request.
Impact of Rate Caps on Detroit Edison's Rate Request
Even if the MPSC approved the full amount of Detroit Edison's $416 million requested base rate increase and the five-year surcharge for recovery of deferred regulatory assets ($109 million in total; $31 million of which would commence in 2004), the Company would collect only a portion of the total requested amount given the rate caps that remain
 
in effect for small commercial/industrial and residential customers. Approximately $150 million of the proposed total request would not be collected in 2004. However Act 141 would allow the Company to defer certain specified costs that are included with the remaining revenue deficiency for recovery after the rate caps for these customers expire. After deferral, approximately $90 million of the revenue would remain unrecovered in 2004.
The Hearing Process
Following today's filing, the MPSC will notice our application and schedule a pre-hearing conference before the assigned Administrative Law Judge (ALJ). At this conference other parties will ask to intervene in our case. The Staff of the MPSC will also be an active participant. After the admission of parties, the ALJ will establish the case schedule, which will include dates for the filing of intervenor testimony, rebuttal testimony by all parties, cross examination dates, brief and reply brief dates. At the end of the hearing process, the ALJ will issue his/her recommendation in the form of a Proposal for Decision (PFD) for MPSC consideration. After exceptions and replies are filed, the MPSC will then receive the full record and issue a final order after due deliberation. Michigan law directs the Commission to enter a final order in a case of this type within 9 months from the date of application to the final order. In order to receive rate relief prior to first or second quarter 2004, the Company has requested an interim rate increase of $274 million effective January 1, 2004. An interim increase can be granted (under bond) after cross-examination of the Company's direct case and filing of the Staff's interim report. An interim hearing is required prior to any determination and could be held in November 2003.
 
 
 


