FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20041104171443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
DTE Energy is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") with its earnings release issued November 4, 2004, announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. Copies of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference, and contain the reconciliation and representations required by the SEC's Regulation G.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
99.1      Earnings Release of DTE Energy Company dated November 4, 2004, including reconciliation and representations required by              Regulation G.
99.2      Financial Information Distributed for Media and Investor Relations Communications dated November 4, 2004.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in each of DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2003 Form 10-K (which forward-looking statements are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
November 4, 2004
DTE ENERGY REPORTS THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported earnings for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2004, of $93 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, compared with $176 million, or $1.04 per diluted share in the third quarter 2003.
     Operating earnings (which exclude non-recurring items, tax credit-driven normalization, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting changes) for the 2004 third quarter were $69 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, which is comparable with operating earnings of $114 million, or $0.67 per diluted share for the same period in 2003.
     Reported earnings for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2004 were $318 million, or $1.84 per diluted share versus $292 million or $1.73 per diluted share in 2003. Year-to-date operating earnings through Sept. 30 were $263 million, or $1.52 per diluted share, compared with $362 million, or $2.15 per diluted share in 2003.
     A reconciliation of reported to operating earnings for both the quarter ended and nine months ended Sept. 30, 2004 and 2003 is at the end of this release.
     "Our third quarter earnings results clearly demonstrate the continuation of a difficult year for our two utilities, Detroit Edison and MichCon," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO"Detroit Edison was particularly hard-hit this quarter, with its operating earnings down nearly 45 percent from the third quarter last year."
.
     While mild summer weather was a significant factor in Detroit Edison's quarterly earnings decline, the loss of customer load to Michigan's Electric Choice program also played a large role in the utility's financial results.
     "Detroit Edison and MichCon are nearing the end of a regulatory cycle that started nearly ten years ago, which was the last time they had base rate increases," Earley said. "The good news is that as 2004 comes to a close, we anticipate that our utilities will soon be on a path to return them to financial health, with the resolution of their rate cases expected shortly, and hopefully, improvements to Michigan's Electric Choice program which would ensure fairness to all program participants."
     "Our non-regulated businesses continue to perform very well," Earley said, "and combined with timely rate orders providing reasonable rate adjustments for our utilities, DTE Energy's earnings and cash flow should strengthen considerably."
     Operating earnings results for the third quarter 2004, by business unit, were as follows:
 
     The non-regulated operations of this business unit include the company's energy services, energy marketing and trading, coal services and biomass businesses. Earnings at these non-regulated operations increased $0.10 per diluted share from last year. The increase was mainly attributable to higher gains recognized from selling majority interests in the company's synfuel plants, as well as higher production of synthetic fuel, reflecting the company's decision to produce synfuel primarily from plants in which we have sold interests. During the third quarter 2004, the company produced 4.4 million tons of synfuel, versus 1.6 million tons in the same period last year. Also benefiting quarterly earnings were higher revenues from coke sales, due to higher coke sales volumes combined with higher market prices, and increased revenues from on-site energy projects, reflecting the completion in the second quarter of new long-term utility service contracts with a large automotive company and a large manufacturer of paper products. Partially offsetting these increases were reduced earnings at energy marketing and trading, due to higher unrealized losses on economic hedge contracts related to storage assets at CoEnergy
.
     The non-regulated operations of this business unit consist primarily of DTE Energy Technologies, which markets and distributes a portfolio of distributed generation products and services. Year-over-year performance at this business declined by $0.01 per diluted share.
     Non-regulated operations include the production of gas in northern Michigan and the gathering, transporting, processing and storage of gas. Operating earnings from these businesses declined by $0.04 per diluted share year-over-year due to gains recorded in the 2003 third quarter from selling our 16 percent pipeline interest in the Portland Natural Gas Transmission System.
 
DTE Energy's executive vice president and CFO, David E. Meador, indicated that 2005 holds the potential for financial progress. "We believe that the coming year will provide closure on a number of significant financial uncertainties for our company. With our utilities returning to financial health, continued growth from our non-regulated businesses, and a dividend yield of approximately 5%, DTE Energy is an attractive investment opportunity."
Recent Events and Developments
On Oct. 27, 2004, DTE Energy Services received FERC approval for the sale of 2 gas-fired peaker units at its Georgetown, Indiana power plant. The sale of the two units, representing 160 MW, is expected to close in the fourth quarter of this year. The sale of the Georgetown units is consistent with DTE Energy's plan to optimize the value of its merchant generation portfolio.
FERC Approval for Sale of Gas-Fired Peaker Units
On Oct. 15, 2004, DTE Energy entered into a $525 million, five-year unsecured revolving credit facility and lowered its existing three-year revolving credit facility from $350 million to $175 million. Detroit Edison and MichCon also entered into similar revolving credit facilities. Detroit Edison entered into a $206.25 million, five-year facility and lowered its three-year facility from $137.5 million to $68.75 million. MichCon entered into a $243.75 million, five-year facility and lowered its three-year facility from $162.5 million to $81.25 million. The five-year facilities replace the October 2003 364-day facilities, which expired. The credit facilities may be utilized for general corporate borrowings, but are intended primarily to provide liquidity support for each of the companies' commercial paper programs.
Renewal of Revolving Credit Facilities
On Sept. 21, 2004, the MPSC issued an order granting interim rate relief to MichCon. The interim rate increase, which took effect Sept. 22, would total $35.3 million if it were in effect for a full year.
Michigan Public Service Commission Issues MichCon Interim Rate Order
On July 26, 2004, the MPSC staff recommended a $76 million increase in base rates compared to MichCon's requested base rate relief of $194 million. MichCon proposed a provision, which was subsequently supported by the MPSC staff that would allow MichCon to recover or refund 90% of uncollectable accounts receivables expense above or below the amount that is reflected in base rates. In addition, the MPSC staff proposed a 50% debt and 50% equity capital structure utilizing a rate of return on common equity of 11%. MichCon's current allowed rate of return on common equity is 11.5%. MichCon expects a final order in the first quarter of 2005.
MPSC Staff Recommendation on Final Rate Relief for MichCon
On Aug. 26, 2004, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) issued a Proposal for Decision regarding final rate relief requested by Detroit Edison. The ALJ agreed with the MPSC staff and recommended a $254 million base rate increase, which excluded $93 million of stranded costs. The recommended base rate increase is predicated upon Detroit Edison being allowed to retain third-party wholesale sales due to
Administrative Law Judge Recommendation on Detroit Edison Final Rate Relief
 
electric Customer Choice to recover the $93 million of stranded costs. The ALJ endorsed the MPSC staff's position on regulatory assets and historical stranded costs. Detroit Edison expects a final rate order this month.
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is available on the company's website at www.dteenergy.com on the "Investors" page.
     DTE Energy will conduct a conference call with the investment community at 9 a.m. EDT Friday, Nov. 5, to discuss third quarter earnings results. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the DTE Energy conference call at www.dteenergy.com. A replay will be available approximately one hour after the conference call until Dec. 4, and the internet broadcast will be archived on the company's website.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
     The information contained in this document is as of the date of this press release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This press release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; economic climate and growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws and regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance associated therewith; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; the higher price of oil and its impact on the value of Section 29 tax credits, and the ability to utilize and/or sell interests in facilities producing such credits; implementation of electric and gas Customer Choice programs; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes in the cost of coal and the availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas and oil; effects of competition; impacts of FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations; contributions to earnings by non-regulated businesses; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism; changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; and changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the company. This press release should also be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in each of DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2003 Form 10-K, and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, MichCon and Detroit Edison.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
 
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY

 
Exhibit 99.2
Key:
 
 
 
 
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q
(1) Regulatory deferrals recorded pursuant to Michigan electric restructuring legislation and related Michigan Public Service Commission Orders. The deferrals include Electric Choice lost margin recovery, Electric Choice implementation costs, environmental compliance costs and other.
(2) Reflects reported earnings for the 12-month period ending September 30 and a 13-month average common equity.
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q
(A) Represents MichCon's results included in the DTE Energy Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
 
* Includes Dearborn Industrial Group sales
* Includes Dearborn Industrial Group sales
** Reflects impact of interim rate order eliminating Choice transition credit & implementing transition charge
Gas Sales  MichCon Service Area (Mcf)
* includes choice customers
Gas Revenue  MichCon Service Area (Mcf)
* includes choice customers
Cooling Degree Days Detroit Edison service territory
Heating Degree Days MichCon service territory
* 2004 data based on 10-year average, 2003 data based on 30 year average


