FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20040729170710.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     DTE Energy is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") with its earnings release issued July 29, 2004, announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report and contain the reconciliation and representations required by the SEC's Regulation G.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in each of DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2003 Form 10-K (which forward-looking statements are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 29, 2004
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
July 29, 2004
DTE ENERGY REPORTS SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported earnings for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004, of $35 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, compared with a reported loss of $39 million, or $0.23 per diluted share in the second quarter 2003.
     Operating earnings (which exclude non-recurring items, tax credit-driven normalization, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting changes) for the 2004 second quarter were $39 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, which is comparable with operating earnings of $70 million, or $0.42 per diluted share for the same period in 2003.
     Reported earnings for the six months ended June 30, 2004, were $225 million, or $1.31 per diluted share versus $116 million or $0.69 per diluted share in 2003. Year-to-date operating earnings were $194 million, or $1.13 per diluted share, compared to $248 million, or $1.47 per diluted share in 2003.
     A reconciliation of reported to operating earnings for both the quarter ended and six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 is at the end of this release.
     "As we reported earlier in the week, our two utilities, Detroit Edison and MichCon, experienced another difficult quarter," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO"The negative impact of Michigan's Electric Choice program was the largest factor driving the earnings decline at Detroit Edison, and the combined effect of increased pension and healthcare expenses, high levels of uncollectable expenses and mild weather negatively impacted MichCon's earnings performance. We continue to manage our costs aggressively and take actions to reduce our past-due receivables. While we have made progress in our electric and gas cases, the rate relief granted to date and the proposed changes to the Electric Choice program are inadequate, and much more is needed to ensure the financial health of our utilities and our ability to provide safe and reliable service to Michigan energy users.
.
     "I am pleased," Earley continued, "that a bipartisan group of state senators recently introduced a package of bills designed to fix the problems associated with the Electric Choice program. I appreciate the efforts of this group of senators in tackling this critical issue. The proposed legislation addresses a number of the fundamental problems with Public Act 141 while preserving an Electric Choice program that is fair for all Michigan citizens and electricity users."
     Operating earnings results for the second quarter 2004, by business unit, were as follows:
 
     The non-regulated operations of this business unit include the company's energy services, energy marketing and trading, coal services and biomass businesses. Earnings at these non-regulated operations decreased $0.09 per diluted share from last year. The decrease was mainly attributable to lower production of synthetic fuel, reflecting the company's decision to produce synfuel from seven of its nine plants in the second quarter, pending the sale of its remaining two plants. The company's strategy is to produce synfuel from the plants in which it has sold an interest in order to optimize earnings and cash flow. During the second quarter 2004, the company produced 3.8 million tons of synfuel, versus 4.4 million tons in the same period last year. In addition, a gain was recorded in the second quarter of 2003 from the termination of a tolling agreement at a non-regulated power generation facility. Partially offsetting these declines were increased earnings from coke battery operations, driven by higher coke sales and coke prices, higher realized margins at energy marketing and trading, and a gain from selling an interest in an on-site energy project
.
     The non-regulated operations of this business unit consist primarily of DTE Energy Technologies, which markets and distributes a portfolio of distributed generation products and services. Year-over-year performance at this business declined by $0.03 per diluted share, reflecting an impairment charge for a decline in the fair value of a technology investment.
     Non-regulated operations include the production of gas in northern Michigan and the gathering, transporting, processing and storage of gas. Operating earnings from these operations declined by $0.01 per diluted share year-over-year.
 
     "Although our utility earnings are under pressure, our non-regulated businesses continue to perform well," said David E. Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and chief financial officer. "During the second quarter, we sold interest in two additional synfuel facilities, Indy Coke and Red Mountain. Currently, a majority interest in seven of our nine synfuel plants has been sold, representing 81 percent of our total synfuel production capacity. Given the successful progress in the sell down of our synfuel portfolio, we expect to generate higher production volumes and net income from this business. We now anticipate that our synfuels business will earn $190 million to $210 million in net income this year, up from our previous earnings guidance of $150 million to $190 million. We are also increasing the 2004 earnings guidance for our non-regulated business portfolio to $215 million to $255 million, up from our previous target of $194 million to $249 million."
Recent Events and Developments
MPSC Staff Recommendation for Final MichCon Rate Order
On July 26, 2004, the MPSC staff issued its recommendation for final rate relief in MichCon's rate proceeding. The staff recommended a rate increase of $70 million, using a projected 2005 test year. MichCon had requested $194 million in final rate relief, based on a projected 2005 test year. The staff also proposed an allowed return on common equity of 11 percent, with a capital structure of 50 percent debt and 50 percent equity. Rebuttal testimony is due Aug. 6. An interim rate order in this proceeding is expected in August, and a final rate order anticipated in January 2005.
Bills Introduced to fix Michigan's Electric Choice Program
On July 1, 2004, a bipartisan group of state senators introduced a package of six bills designed to address the problems associated with Michigan's Electric Choice Program. Leading the effort to introduce bills were Sens. Bruce Patterson, chairman of the Senate's Technology & Energy Committee, Bev Hammerstrom, majority floor leader, and Dennis Olshove, the Technology & Energy Committee's minority vice chairman. The bills were assigned to the Technology & Energy Committee, which will hold the first of a series of hearings and work group meetings Aug. 4 in an effort to build consensus among Michigan's electric utilities, alternative electric suppliers and customer groups. The complete legislation text can be found at www.michiganlegislature.gov.
Union Contract Negotiation
Members of Local 223, Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA), have ratified a new three-year contract with DTE Energy covering employees in the power plants, customer service, distribution, corporate services and in a variety of office, technical and professional positions. Local 223 members working for MichCon, the company's natural gas utility, are still conducting the ratification process, which is scheduled to conclude Aug. 2. The UWUA is the largest union at DTE Energy with approximately 4,700 members.
DTE Energy Services Purchases Utility Equipment at Eight DaimlerChrysler Corp. Plants
On May 26, 2004, DTE Energy Services and an affiliate of the Goldman Sachs Group Inc. formed a joint venture to acquire utility equipment at eight DaimlerChrysler Corp. manufacturing facilities. DTE Energy Services, a subsidiary of DTE Energy, will provide a variety of utility management services to DaimlerChrysler Corp. under a long-term management services agreement. The utility assets, at DaimlerChrysler Corp. plants in Michigan, Indiana and Ohio, were purchased for $288 million. The types of equipment included in the project are production-support systems such as electrical equipment, steam boilers, wastewater treatment and lighting systems, compressed air, chilled water and air handling equipment.
 
DTE Energy Services and Regency Affiliates Inc. Purchase Mobile Energy Services Co.
On May 19, 2004, DTE Energy Services and Regency Affiliates Inc. purchased Mobile Energy Services Co. (MESC). MESC is an on-site energy facility that supplies steam and electricity to a Kimberly-Clark tissue mill in Mobile, Ala. DTE Energy Services, which owns and controls 50 percent of MESC, will provide management support and provide for the operation and maintenance of the energy facility. Under a 15-year agreement with Kimberly-Clark, MESC will be the exclusive steam supplier to the mill and will provide a substantial portion of the mill's electricity requirements. The energy facility supplies up to 61 megawatts of cogenerated steam and electricity for use in the mill's operations.
DTE Energy Services to Provide Services at La Paloma Generating Facility
On April 5, 2004, DTE Energy Services signed agreements with La Paloma Generating Co. LP to provide comprehensive asset management, and operation and maintenance services for the La Paloma Generating plant near Bakersfield, Calif. The La Paloma facility is a 1,121-megawatt combined-cycle power plant fueled by natural gas. It supplies wholesale electricity to the California market. Under the asset management agreement, DTE Energy Services is responsible for day-to-day management and administration of the project contracts. Under the O&M agreement, DTE Energy Services is responsible for supplying personnel to operate and maintain the facility, including daily facility operations and monitoring, and materials required for operation and maintenance of the facility.
DTE Energy Sells Portion of Plug Power Ownership
On May 25, 2004, DTE Energy sold, through its wholly owned subsidiary, DTE Energy Ventures Inc., 3.5 million shares of the stock it owns in Plug Power Inc. (NASDAQ:PLUG), a fuel-cell development and manufacturing company. After the sale, DTE Energy Ventures continues to be the largest shareholder of Plug Power, with an ownership position totaling 10.6 million shares, or 14.5 percent, down from 19.4 percent ownership.
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is available on the company's website at www.dteenergy.com on the "Investors" page.
     DTE Energy will conduct a conference call with the investment community at 9 a.m. EDT Friday, July 30, to discuss second quarter earnings results. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the DTE Energy conference call at www.dteenergy.com. A replay will be available approximately one hour after the conference call until Aug. 30 and the internet broadcast will be archived on the company's website.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
 
     The information contained in this document is as of the date of this press release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This press release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to, and purchases by, customers; economic climate and growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws and regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance associated therewith; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; the ability to utilize Section 29 tax credits and/or sell interests in facilities producing such credits; implementation of electric and gas Customer Choice programs; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes in the cost of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; effects of competition; impacts of FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations; contributions to earnings by non-regulated businesses; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against or damage due to terrorism; changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; and changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the company. This press release should also be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in each of DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2003 Form 10-K, and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, MichCon and Detroit Edison.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
Analysts  For Further Information: Investor Relations (313) 235-8030
 
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY

 
Exhibit 99.2
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, 10K and 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
 
Key:
A -Quarterly Effective Tax Rate Adjustment $4M
 
The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and 10Q.
 
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q.
(A) Excludes $26 million ($17 million after-tax) of 2002 gas disallowance costs that were previously reflected in 2003 earnings. 2002 earnings have been restated to account for these gas disallowance costs.
n/m  not meaningful
 
 


