FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20040624085002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
     Today, June 24, 2004, DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") issued a Press Release in which it announced that the board of directors named Gerard M. Anderson president of DTE Energy. For a detailed discussion, please see DTE Energy's Press Release dated June 24, 2004, attached as Exhibit 99.
Item 7. Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's 2003 Form 10-K Item 1 (incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 24, 2004
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99
June 24, 2004
GERARD ANDERSON NAMED PRESIDENT OF DTE ENERGY
     DETROIT  The board of directors of DTE Energy today named Gerard M. Anderson president of DTE Energy.
     Anderson, 46joined Detroit Edison, a subsidiary of DTE Energy, in 1993 as vice president of non-utility businesses. He is currently president and chief operating officer of DTE Energy's Energy Resources business unit where his responsibilities include oversight of the company's fossil fuel and nuclear power plants generating more than 11,000 megawatts of electricity, and for the associated fuel supply organization.
,
     Anderson also serves as chief executive officer for several of DTE Energy's non-regulated subsidiaries, including DTE Biomass Energy, DTE Energy Services, DTE Coal Services, and DTE Energy Trading. In that capacity, he led the company's efforts to broaden the role DTE Energy plays in providing energy and services to large energy users.
     "Gerry has provided solid leadership as well as vision during the past 10 years," said Anthony F. Earley, Jr, DTE Energy chairman and chief executive officer. "In addition to providing leadership for our power plant fleet, he has successfully built DTE Energy's non-regulated businesses into an industry powerhouse that last year alone produced over 40 percent of DTE Energy's net income. I am confident that in his new role Gerry will provide valuable leadership for DTE Energy's future."
     In his new position Anderson will retain his current responsibilities, assume greater responsibility for corporate matters and will provide executive leadership for DTE Energy's overall strategic planning process, its Operating Committee and other critical enterprise wide initiatives.
     Prior to joining Detroit Edison, Anderson was employed at McKinsey & Co., Inc., an international management consulting firm, where he worked closely with the senior management of companies, focusing on the energy sector and financial institutions.
     A native of Toledo, Ohio and a resident of Ann Arbor, Mich., Anderson earned a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering at the University of Notre Dame. He also earned a master of business administration degree and a master of public policy degree from the University of Michigan.
     He is chairman of the Center for Energy and Economic Development, and is co-chair of the Edison Electric Institute Committee on Environment. Anderson is also involved in various
 
community and civic activitiesHe is vice chairman of The Nature Conservancy, Michigan chapter; vice chairman of the Michigan Greenways Initiative, and serves on the executive committee of the Parade Company.
.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its largest operating units are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. The DTE Energy portfolio of businesses also includes non-regulated subsidiaries supplying a broad range of project and energy management services, primarily to large industrial and commercial customers. In 2003, DTE Energy posted revenues of approximately $7 billion. DTE Energy subsidiaries include Detroit Edison, MichCon, DTE Energy Services, DTE Biomass Energy, DTE Energy Trading, DTE Coal Services, DTE Energy Technologies, Midwest Energy Resources Co. (MERC), DTE Transportation Services, Inc., and DTE Rail Services, Inc. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:


