FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20040224120236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events
     Today, February 24, 2004, The Detroit Edison Company ("Detroit Edison"), a subsidiary of DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy"), issued a News Release in which it announced that it posted to the DTE Energy website a Summary of Interim Rate Order for Detroit Edison.
     For a detailed discussion, please see Detroit Edison's News Release dated February 24, 2004 and the Summary of Interim Rate Order for Detroit Edison dated February 24, 2004, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 respectively and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Feb. 24, 2004
DTE ENERGY POSTS SUMMARY OF DETROIT EDISON INTERIM RATE ORDER
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today posted a summary of an interim rate order for Detroit Edison to its website at dteenergy.com.
     The summary provides a detailed discussion of the Michigan Public Service Commission's Feb. 20 order granting interim rate relief to Detroit Edison.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its largest operating companies are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and Michigan Consolidated Gas Co., a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at dteenergy.com.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
      
Analysts  For Further Information: (313) 235-8030

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
     
Overview of Detroit Edison's Rate Request
 
 
Overview February 20 MPSC Interim Order:
 
 
Other Implications of the Interim Rate Order:
PA 141 Regulatory Assets
The interim order affirmed the Company's authority to continue to book regulatory assets in 2004 for government-mandated expenditures as defined by PA 141, including Choice program implementation costs and environmental compliance costs, and its net stranded costs. Accordingly, the $20 million of Clean Air Act costs that were not included in the MPSC's interim order (consideration was deferred until the final phase of the case) will
 
be deferred under the provisions of PA 141 Section 10d(4) for recovery in the final rate order.
Recovery of Employee Benefit Expenses
The MPSC approved the Company's request to include $113 million in rates for recovery of pension and healthcare expenses, on the condition that the Company will make minimal annual prorated contributions equal to the amount of pension expenses reflected in rates during the period that the authorized interim rates are in effect. The Company provided a letter to the MPSC on 2/20/04 indicating it will comply with the MPSC's directive. DTE Energy plans to make an approximately $170 million pension contribution in 2004 utilizing DTE Energy common stock.
Impact on Company Efforts to Reform Public Act 141
The Company will continue to work actively in both the legislative and regulatory arenas to reform Michigan's Electric Choice program. The MPSC's interim order is directionally correct with its inclusion of a transition charge for Electric Choice customers, as well as the elimination of the Choice transition credits, which subsidized Electric Choice customers at the expense of residential full service customers. However, the interim order did not and could not fix the basic structural flaws of Michigan's Electric Choice program. Electric restructuring in Michigan is unique, and flawed, because incumbent electric utilities are forced to operate simultaneously in two different and incompatible market systems  competition and regulation. As a result, customers can switch back and forth between the two systems and enjoy the lower of market or regulated cost-based rates because utilities retain a full obligation to serve all customers at regulated rates. The current structure also results in inequities from the requirement that Michigan utilities maintain adequate reserve margins; marketers have no such obligation. The Company continues to encourage state lawmakers to take swift action to revise PA 141 to ensure that Michigan's residents and businesses have affordable and reliable energy for years to come.
Company Reaction to the Order
The MPSC issued the interim order in a timely manner and acknowledged through their various findings the critical nature of Edison's rate relief request. Detroit Edison appreciates the MPSC's timely response in the interim phase of the electric rate case. The Company is optimistic that the MPSC will adopt the additional aspects of the Company's case in its final rate order.
Financial Implications for Detroit Edison in 2004
The rates authorized in the MPSC's interim order became effective 2/21/04. Although the interim order granted annualized interim rate relief of $278 million, the net interim rate increase is $152 million because a portion of the base rate increase is required to offset the $126 million PSCR rate reduction. Detroit Edison will only be able to implement $82 million of the interim net rate increase in 2004 because of rate caps and further, will only collect $71 million in interim relief in 2004, because the new rates were
 
implemented in late February. With the impact of the required PSCR $20 million refund, the net realized interim revenue increase is $51 million in 2004.
The amount of the interim net rate increase that can be collected in 2004 is lower than anticipated by the Company, as the MPSC order allocated significantly more of the choice revenue deficiency (75%) to full service customers, and thus recovery is limited by rate caps, instead of choice customers, who are not subject to rate caps. In contrast, the Company requested that only 10% of the Choice revenue deficiency be recovered from full service customers.
The portion of the interim net rate increase not subject to rate caps in 2004 in $82 million. The MPSC has deferred a significant amount of the Company's rate request until it issues its final order, which the Company anticipates in September. The MPSC's final ruling regarding these deferrals, their final allocation of rates between Choice and full service customers, and the adoption of the Company's proposed class-specific Choice transition charges will impact Detroit Edison's 2004 calendar year net revenue increase.
Table 4 provides an overview of the incremental revenue that the Company will collect in 2004 as a result of the interim order.
Next Steps
On March 5, 2004 the MPSC Staff and intervening parties will file their recommendations for final rate relief for Detroit Edison. Rebuttals to these filings will be made on March 26. A proposal for decision (PFD) for the case is expected on June 30, and a final rate order to be issued in September.
 
 
 
 


