FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20040923160743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events
     Today, September 23, 2004, Michigan Consolidated Gas Company ("MichCon"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy"), issued a News Release in which it announced that the Michigan Public Service Commission issued an interim rate order on September 21, 2004 relating to MichCon's request to increase its service and distribution charges.
     For a detailed discussion, please see MichCon's News Release dated September 23, 2004, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
     99.1           News Release of MichCon dated September 23, 2004.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's and MichCon's 2003 Form 10-K (which forward-looking statements are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
September 23, 2004
Michigan Public Service Commission Approves Interim Rates for MichCon
     DETROIT  The Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) on Sept. 21 issued an interim rate order on Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's (MichCon's) request to increase its service and distribution charges.
     The interim rate increase, which took effect immediately, would total $35.3 million if it were in effect for a full year.
     The MPSC interim order represents a step in the rate making process which provides rate relief prior to the issuance of a final rate order. A final order is not anticipated until early 2005.
     "We are encouraged that the commission has recognized that MichCon's rates require an increase after holding steady for more than 10 years," said Anthony F. Earley, DTE Energy Chairman and CEO. "However, we would anticipate that the commission would fully evaluate all of the factors in our $194 million rate increase request and issue additional rate relief in the final order."
     A typical residential customer (using 125 MCF of gas per year) will see an average monthly increase of less than $1.50  about a 2 percent increase in their total bill.
     MichCon filed this rate request with the MPSC on Sept. 30, 2003. It is the first time the company has requested an increase in service and distribution charges in more than a decade.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's principal operating subsidiaries are Michigan Consolidated Gas Co. (MichCon), a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan, and Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan.
This news release contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's and MichCon's 2003 Form 10-K Item 1 (incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:


