FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20040428215534.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
Item 7. Exhibits
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Conditions
     DTE Energy is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with its earnings release issued April 28, 2004 announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report and contain the reconciliation and representations required by the SEC's Regulation G.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Form 8-K contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2003 Form 10-K Item 1 (incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
April 28, 2004
DTE ENERGY REPORTS FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2004 of $186 million, or $1.09 per diluted share, compared with reported earnings of $155 million, or $0.92 per diluted share in the first quarter 2003.
     Operating earnings (which exclude non-recurring items, tax credit driven normalization, discontinued operations, and cumulative effect of accounting changes) for the 2004 first quarter were $151 million, or $0.89 per diluted share, which is comparable with operating earnings of $178 million, or $1.06 per diluted share for the same period in 2003.
     The 2004 reported results include a $48 million non-recurring net of tax gain at Energy Marketing & Trading resulting from a modification to future purchase commitments under a transportation agreement with an interstate pipeline company and the termination of a related long-term gas storage agreement for gas deliveries during the summer injection period and redeliveries during the winter heating season. Reported results also reflect a $7 million impairment charge relating to the expected loss on sale and discontinued operations of Southern Missouri Gas Co., and a $6 million unfavorable tax adjustment to normalize the company's effective tax rate.
     2003 reported results included several non-recurring items, which are detailed in the reconciliation of reported to operating earnings located at the end of this release.
     "As our first quarter results demonstrate, we continue to face financial challenges in 2004," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "Our earnings performance this year will be largely dependent on the timing and amount of rate relief that we receive at our two utilities, Detroit Edison and MichCon. We've made significant progress in the Detroit Edison rate case, as we received an interim rate order from the MPSC in February, and are on track for a final rate order in the third quarter. In our gas rate case, which is a basic cost-of-service case, we expect the MPSC staff to file its recommendation regarding interim rate relief for MichCon next week, and we anticipate that an interim rate order in that case will be issued in July."
     "There has also been good progress in the effort to reform Michigan's electric restructuring legislation, Public Act 141," Earley continued. "We have been actively advocating changes in the law to correct the structural flaws of Michigan's Customer Choice Program. The Energy and Technology Committee of the Michigan Senate has conducted a series of hearings on this important issue, and we anticipate that PA 141 reform legislation will be introduced soon. It is critical that the Choice Program be corrected so that it is fair and balanced for all participants. We continue to work actively on both the regulatory and legislative fronts to establish a framework for our utilities that will position them to resume healthy growth in 2005 and beyond."
     Operating earnings results for the first quarter 2004, by business unit, were as follows:
 
     The non-regulated operations of this business unit include the company's energy services, energy marketing and trading (comprising DTE Energy Trading and CoEnergy), coal services and biomass businesses. Earnings at these non-regulated operations decreased $0.21 per diluted share from last year. The decrease was mainly attributable to lower production of synthetic fuel, reflecting the company's decision to produce synfuel only from five of its nine plants in the first quarter, pending the sale of its remaining four plants. The company's strategy is to produce synfuel mainly from the plants in which it has sold an interest in order to optimize earnings and cash flow. Also impacting the decline in quarterly earnings were reduced profits at Energy Trading, which benefited last year from higher margins on short term deliveries of power, and an increase in operating costs associated with the ramping up of the DTE Peptec business, a subsidiary that uses proprietary technology to produce high quality coal products from waste coal. The earnings decline was partially offset by increased earnings from coke battery operations, which was driven by higher coke sales and coke prices.
     
The non-regulated operations of this business unit consist primarily of DTE Energy Technologies, which markets and distributes a portfolio of distributed generation products and services. Year-over-year performance at this business improved by $0.01 per diluted share, driven by increased sales and cost-reduction initiatives.
     Non-regulated operations include the production of gas in northern Michigan and the gathering, transporting, processing and storage of gas. Operating earnings from these operations declined by $0.02 per diluted share year-over-year, due mainly to the loss of earnings from the 2003 sale of our 16 percent pipeline interest in the Portland Natural Gas Transmission System.
     "In addition to our corporate focus on bringing our rate cases to resolution this year, we'll continue to pursue stable earnings growth at our non-regulated businesses," said David E. Meador, DTE Energy senior vice president and chief financial officer.
 
     "This year, the key driver of our non-regulated earnings continues to be our synthetic fuels business, which we anticipate will contribute $150 million to $190 million in net income. In addition, we are actively developing opportunities in our other businesses such as on-site energy, waste coal recovery and power generating asset management services. These types of projects fit our selective criteria: they are low risk, require low capital investment, and build upon our core skills and assets. These businesses will serve as the basis for the future growth of our non-regulated business portfolio and help us to achieve our non-regulated earnings target of $195 million to $250 million this year."
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is available on the company's website at www.dteenergy.com on the "Investors" page.
     DTE Energy will conduct a conference call with the investment community at 8:30 a.m. EDT Thursday, April 29, to discuss first quarter earnings results. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live Internet broadcast of the DTE Energy conference call at www.dteenergy.com.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
     The information contained in this document is as of the date of this press release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This press release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to, and purchases by, customers; economic climate and growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws and regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance associated therewith; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; the ability to utilize Section 29 tax credits and/or sell interests in facilities producing such credits; implementation of electric and gas Customer Choice programs; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes in the cost of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; effects of competition; impacts of FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations; contributions to earnings by non-regulated businesses; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against or damage due to terrorism; changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; and changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counter parties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the Company. This press release should also be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2003 Form 10-K Item 1, and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, MichCon and Detroit Edison.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
Analysts  For Further Information: Investor Relations (313) 235-8030
 
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY
 
ADJUSTMENTS KEY

 
Exhibit 99.2
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, 10K and 10Q.
n/m  not meaningful
 
 
 
The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and 10Q.
 
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q.
n/m-not meaningful
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Preliminary/Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and Form 10Q.
(A) Represents MichCon's results included in the DTE Energy Consolidated Statement of Operations.
n/m  not meaningful
 
 
* Includes Dearborn Industrial Group sales
* Includes Dearborn Industrial Group sales
* includes choice customers
* includes choice customers
Cooling Degree Days
Heating Degree Days


