FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20050510172305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 10, 2005, DTE Energy Company revised previously announced first quarter 2005 earnings to incorporate the impact of orders received by Michigan Consolidated Gas Company ("MichCon") from the Michigan Public Service Commission ("MPSC") regarding, among other things, MichCon's previous request for rate relief. The MPSC orders, issued on April 28, 2005, impacted the DTE Energy first quarter financial results announced on April 27, 2005. A copy of the release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's and MichCon's 2004 Forms 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 10, 2005
Table of Contents

 
May 10, 2005
DTE ENERGY REVISES PREVIOUSLY ANNOUNCED 1Q EARNINGS TO INCORPORATE IMPACT OF MICHCON RATE ORDERS
      DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE: DTE) today filed its first quarter 2005 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company reported earnings for the quarter of $122 million, or $0.70 per diluted share. This is $27 million less than the $149 million, or $0.85 per diluted share, of reported earnings that was announced April 27, 2005. The earnings revision was due to the issuance of several rate orders for Michigan Consolidated Gas Co. (MichCon), the company's natural gas utility, on April 28, 2005, which impacted the company's first quarter financial results.
      DTE Energy's operating earnings for the first quarter of $153 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, were unaffected by the rate orders.
      DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings, which are defined as GAAP earnings adjusted for certain items, provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
      An updated consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2005, as well as a reconciliation of reported to operating earnings, are at the end of this news release. The accounting adjustments that resulted from the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) gas orders are summarized below, and their financial impact to DTE Energy is shown on a schedule accompanying this news release.
 
      "While we appreciate the first base rate increase in more than 10 years for MichCon, we are disappointed with some of the MPSC's decisions," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "We plan to seek rehearing of the MPSC orders and may be pressed to file a follow on rate case sooner than we had planned."
      DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
      The information contained herein is as of the date of this press release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this press release as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This press release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; economic climate and growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws and regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance associated therewith; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; the higher price of oil and its impact on the value of Section 29 tax credits, and the ability to utilize and/or sell interests in facilities producing such credits; implementation of electric and gas Customer Choice programs; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes in the cost of coal and the availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; effects of competition; impact of regulation by FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations; contributions to earnings by non-utility businesses; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism; changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; and changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the company. This press release should also be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's and MichCon's 2004 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and MichCon.
 
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
Analysts  For Further Information:
Investor Relations (313) 235-8030
 
 
      
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
      
 


