FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20050628100855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
At a meeting held on June 23, 2005, the Board of Directors of DTE Energy Company (the "Company") granted Joe W. Laymon, a newly elected director, 1000 shares of Restricted Stock, pursuant to the Company's 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The shares vest three years from the effective date of the grant and require no consideration to be paid by the recipient. A form of Restricted Stock Agreement for restricted stock grants awarded to Company directors under the Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
At a meeting held on June 23, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Joe W. Laymon, Group Vice President, Human Resources and Labor Affairs of Ford Motor Company, to the Board of Directors effective June 23, 2005, for a term that expires at the Company's 2006 annual meeting of shareholders. Mr. Laymon fills a vacancy created by an increase in the size of the Board of Directors from 11 to 12.
The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Laymon is an independent director under the News York Stock Exchange listing standards and the Company's independence guidelines. The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. Laymon to the Board Organization and Compensation Committee.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Laymon and any person pursuant to which he was selected as a Director. Mr. Laymon is not a party to any transaction subject to Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving DTE Energy Company or any of its subsidiaries.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Laymon's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 28, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
To:
                    
                    
This Agreement is made pursuant and subject to the provisions of the DTE Energy Company ("Company") 2001 Stock Incentive Plan ("Plan"). Effective the Company hereby grants to a long-term grant consisting of .
XXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXX
XXXXX Restricted Shares
The shares of Restricted Stock shall be original issue shares or shares of Common Stock purchased by the Company in the open market. A certificate registered in your name, and held by the Company or its duly authorized representative, shall represent such shares. The certificate shall be endorsed with an appropriate legend referring to the applicable restrictions. Your right to receive Restricted Stock vests 3 years from the effective date of the grant and the certificates will be issued to you shortly thereafter.
By accepting this grant you consent to any action taken under the Plan by the Company's Board of Directors and agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and the enclosed booklet "
DTE Energy Company Board of Directors Restricted Stock Agreement"
which is an integral part of this document. You will be deemed to have accepted this grant unless you notify the Corporate Secretary in writing to the contrary.
Anthony F. Earley, Jr. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
                    
                    
                    
                    
 
 
DTE Energy Company Board of Directors
Restricted Stock Agreement
DTE Energy Company Restricted Stock
As a new member of the DTE Energy Company (the "Company") Board of Directors, (the "Board") you have been granted 1,000 shares of Restricted Stock.
The shares of Restricted Stock are shares of DTE Energy common stock that were purchased in the open market or are original issue shares. Such shares are represented by a certificate or certificates registered in your name, that are endorsed with an appropriate legend referring to the restrictions set forth below and held by the Company or its duly authorized representative.
Shareholder Rights
Upon the Grant Date, you have all of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock covered by your Grant Agreement; including the right to vote the shares of Restricted Stock and receive the amount of any dividends that may be paid thereon. Such shares may not be transferred prior to vesting. Any additional shares of Common Stock or other securities that you may become entitled to receive pursuant to a stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, separation or reorganization, or any other change in the capital structure of the Company shall be subject to the same vesting and transferability restrictions as the shares of Restricted Stock covered by your Grant Agreement.
Grant Term and Vesting
Your right to receive Restricted Stock will vest 3 years from the Grant Date. If your service as a Board member ends before your Restricted Stock vest, generally, your rights to any Restricted Stock will be forfeited. However, in the case of death or disability, you or your designated beneficiary will retain the rights to a prorated number of shares of Restricted Stock based on the number of months served as a Board member divided by the total number of months in the vesting period. Restrictions are lifted and Restricted Stock distributed after death or disability.
Other Information
Beneficiary Designation
You may name any beneficiary to inherit the right to these grants according to the applicable terms. Each designation will revoke all prior designations and will be effective only when filed with the Corporate Secretary.
Transferability
Except as provided for separately, these grants are nontransferable and are subject to risk of forfeiture. You may not sell, transfer, pledge, exchange, or otherwise dispose of these grants or the right to receive cash or Common Stock thereunder except in the event of your death or disability. If you have a valid beneficiary designation on file with the Corporate Secretary, your rights under these grants will pass to your designated beneficiary. Otherwise, your rights under these grants will pass to your estate or beneficiary in accordance with your will or, if you do not have a will, your rights under these grants will pass in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution. The Board, in its sole discretion, may waive the restrictions on transferability with respect to all or a portion of the shares subject to these grants.
Participant Bound by Plan
You acknowledge that a copy of the DTE Energy Company 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") has been made available to you and you agree to be bound by all the terms and provisions thereof. All references herein to the Plan shall mean the Plan as in effect on the Grant Date.
Taxes
You are responsible for paying any applicable federal, state, local or foreign tax in connection with dividends received from the Restricted Stock or the value of Restricted Stock on the vesting date. Under the current tax laws, this compensation considered ordinary income.
 
This booklet provides an overview of DTE Energy's Restricted Share Agreement. It does not contain all of the rules and governing terms included in the Plan. If there are any differences between the information in this booklet and the Plan documents, the Plan documents will govern. You are entitled to a copy of the Plan document that governs this grant and may require a copy by contacting the Corporate Secretary.
This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering shares that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.

 
Exhibit 99.1
June 27, 2005
     DETROIT  Joe W. Laymon, group vice president, Corporate Human Resources and Labor Affairs for Ford Motor Co., was recently named to the DTE Energy Board of Directors.
     Laymon, 52, joined Ford in 2000 as executive director, Human Resources Business Operations. He was promoted to vice president, Corporate Human Resources, in 2001 and became Ford's first African American group vice president two years later. Laymon has dedicated his career to being an employee advocate. His extensive human resource background includes labor affairs, leadership development and recruiting and retention.
     "Joe's extensive background in human resources and corporate organizational structures will provide the board with a wealth of knowledge, experience and leadership," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "He will join the board's Organization and Compensation Committee and we look forward to his contributions."
     Prior to joining Ford, Laymon worked for the U.S. State Department's Agency for International Development with assignments in Zaire and Washington, D.C. He joined Xerox Corporation in 1979 and served in a number of senior human resources positions, including chief labor negotiator. Laymon then went to Kodak Co. where he held positions as a director and a vice president within human resources.
     Laymon also serves on the board of directors of Volvo Cars and Molex Inc., a global electronic components company based in Lisle, Ill. An economist, Laymon holds a bachelor's degree from Jackson State University and a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin.
     DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its largest operating units are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
For further information, members of the media may contact:


