FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20050427172710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
DTE Energy Company is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") with its earnings release issued April 27, 2005, announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Copies of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2004 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 27, 2005
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
April 27, 2005
DTE ENERGY REPORTS FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS;
MAINTAINS 2005 EARNINGS GUIDANCE
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported 2005 first quarter earnings of $149 million, or $0.85 per diluted share, compared with reported earnings of $190 million, or $1.11 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2004. DTE Energy also reported that 2005 first quarter cash from operations increased to $413 million, up from $280 million in the first quarter of 2004.
     Operating earnings, which exclude non-recurring items and discontinued operations, for the 2005 first quarter were $153 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, compared with 2004 first quarter operating earnings of $152 million, or $0.89 per diluted share. Reconciliations of reported to operating earnings for the first quarters of 2005 and 2004 are at the end of this release.
     "While the quarter included two timing items that shift earnings to future periods, the underlying earnings power and strong cash performance show we are on track to meet our 2005 financial goals," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "We have made tremendous progress at Detroit Edison, and we expect to continue this progress with the resolution of our rate restructuring filing by the end of 2005. In addition, I am enthusiastic about opportunities at our non-utility businesses to continue their long track record of disciplined growth."
     Operating earnings results for the first quarter of 2005, by business unit, were as follows:
 
 
     Use of Operating Earnings Information  DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
2005 Outlook
DTE Energy reconfirmed its 2005 earnings guidance of $3.30 to $3.60 per diluted share.
     "While we are still awaiting a final order in our MichCon rate case, we anticipate resolution shortly, and we remain confident that we will hit our 2005 earnings target for DTE Energy," said David E. Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and chief financial officer.
Recent Events and Developments
Moody's Upgrades Its Outlook for DTE Energy
     On April 22, 2005, Moody's Investors Service changed its outlook on DTE Energy and Detroit Edison to stable from negative due to an expected improvement in financial performance over the next several years. Moody's also affirmed the senior unsecured rating of DTE Energy at "Baa2" and the issuer rating of Detroit Edison at "Baa1."
Detroit Edison Files 2004 Net Stranded Costs and 2004 Power Supply Cost Recovery Reconciliation Case
     On March 31, 2005, Detroit Edison filed a joint application and testimony (MPSC case U-14474) in its 2004 PSCR Reconciliation Case and its 2004 Net Stranded Cost Recovery Case in accordance with the MPSC's direction in Detroit Edison's Nov. 2004 final rate order. The conjoined proceeding will provide a comprehensive true-up of the 2004 PSCR and stranded cost, including treatment of Detroit Edison's third party wholesale sale revenue. A prehearing conference is scheduled for May 17, 2005.
Detroit Edison Gains Agreement on Accounting for Business System Implementation Costs
     On March 28, 2005, Detroit Edison signed an agreement with the MPSC and other parties regarding the accounting treatment for its business computer system modernization project (MPSC case U-14201). The agreement allows Detroit Edison to defer up to $60 million of costs that would normally be expensed as regulatory assets, beginning Jan. 1, 2006. These regulatory assets will be recovered as part of a subsequent Detroit Edison general rate case order.
Detroit Edison Files to Implement Equalization Mechanism for Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB)
     On Feb. 10, 2005, Detroit Edison filed for authority to institute a tracking mechanism for OPEB, which are principally retiree health care (MPSC case U-14428). This mechanism would
 
recognize differences between cost levels collected in rates and the actual costs under current accounting rules. If annual OPEB expense is greater than the net expense collected in rates, the difference would be recognized as a regulatory asset. Alternatively, if annual OPEB expense is less than the net expense collected in rates, the difference would be recognized as a regulatory liability. The regulatory asset or liability would be reconciled on an annual basis, and customers would either receive a credit or charge on their bill depending on whether OPEB was higher or lower than the amount in rates. The MPSC Staff is scheduled to file testimony in this case by July 28, 2005.
Detroit Edison Files Rate Restructuring Proposal
     On Feb. 4, 2005, Detroit Edison filed the rate restructuring proposal (MPSC case U-14399) mandated by the MPSC's final order in Detroit Edison's general rate case. The primary purpose of this filing is to ensure that all customers, including participants in the Customer Choice program, pay their fair and proportionate share of the cost of each element of service. This will be achieved through the creation of a fair, equitable and unbundled rate structure that is free of subsidization and based on actual cost of service. In addition, Detroit Edison's proposed method will provide a rational transition period for the removal of existing rate subsidies. Detroit Edison is not requesting any incremental revenues from this rate restructuring proposal above those granted in the final rate order. The MPSC Staff is scheduled to file testimony in this case by June 9, 2005.
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is available on the company's website at www.dteenergy.com/investors.
     DTE Energy will conduct a conference call with the investment community at 8:30 a.m. EDT Thursday, April 28, to discuss first quarter 2005 earnings results. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live internet broadcast of the DTE Energy conference call at www.dteenergy.com/investors. The internet broadcast will be archived on the company's website.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
     The information contained herein is as of the date of this press release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this press release as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This press release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; economic climate and growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws and regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance associated therewith; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; the higher price of oil and its impact on the value of Section 29 tax credits, and the ability to utilize and/or sell interests in facilities producing such credits; implementation of electric and gas Customer Choice programs; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes
 
in the cost of coal and the availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; effects of competition; impact of regulation by FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations; contributions to earnings by non-utility businesses; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism; changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; and changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the company. This press release should also be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2004 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, MichCon and Detroit Edison.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
Analysts  For Further Information: Investor Relations (313) 235-8030
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
1
 
 
     
3
 
     
4
 
     
 
 
 
 
* Includes Dearborn Industrial Group sales
* Distribution charge includes Dearborn Industrial Group revenues
** Reflects impact of interim rate order eliminating Choice      transition credit & implementing transition charges
      
* Includes choice customers
* Reflects impact of interim rate relief and a higher gas cost     recovery factor ** Includes choice customers
Detroit Edison service territory
Cooling Degree Days
n/m: not meaningful
MichCon service territory
Heating Degree Days
* 2005 data based on 30-year average, 2004 data based on 10-year     average


