FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20050921172534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Indentures
     The Detroit Edison Company ("Detroit Edison") and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee, entered into a supplemental indenture dated August 1, 2005 in connection with the issuance by Detroit Edison on August 17, 2005 of $119,175,000 aggregate principal amount of 2005 Series DT Variable Rate Senior Notes due 2029 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued in conjunction with the issuance of $119,175,000 Michigan Strategic Fund Variable Rate Limited Obligation Refunding Revenue Bonds (The Detroit Edison Company Exempt Facilities Project), Series 2005DT (the "Revenue Bonds") by the Michigan Strategic Fund, a public body corporate and politic of the State of Michigan, the proceeds of which were loaned to Detroit Edison pursuant to the Loan Agreement described below. Interest on the Notes accrues on a basis consistent with the Revenue Bonds at a variable rate as established for the Revenue Bonds from time to time.
     The Notes are secured by a corresponding series of Detroit Edison's General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 2005 Series DT (the "Mortgage Bonds"). The Mortgage Bonds were issued pursuant to a supplemental indenture between Detroit Edison and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee, dated August 1, 2005.
Loan Agreement
     Detroit Edison entered into a Loan Agreement dated August 1, 2005 with the Michigan Strategic Fund ("Issuer"). The Loan Agreement provides for the issue and sale of the Revenue Bonds described above by the Issuer for the purpose of refunding certain bonds issued by the Issuer under the Michigan Strategic Fund Act of 1984 for the benefit of Detroit Edison and relating to costs associated with the construction and installation of certain pollution control facilities of Detroit Edison, and the loan by the Issuer of the proceeds of the Revenue Bonds to Detroit Edison. The terms of the Loan Agreement substantially mirror the terms of the Revenue Bonds.
     The Supplemental Indentures are filed together with the Loan Agreement as exhibits to this Current Report, and the description of each document above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Supplemental Indentures and the Loan Agreement.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of the Registrant.
     On August 17, 2005, Detroit Edison borrowed $119,175,000 from Michigan Strategic Fund pursuant to the Loan Agreement described in Item 1.01 above and issued corresponding $119,175,000 aggregate principal amount of 2005 Series DT Variable Rate Senior Notes due 2029. Reference is made to the information contained under Item 1.01 in this Current Report for additional information.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
     This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2004 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 21, 2005
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 4.1 ================================================================================ THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY AND J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION TRUSTEE --------------- SEVENTEENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE DATED AS OF AUGUST 1, 2005 --------------- SUPPLEMENTING THE COLLATERAL TRUST INDENTURE DATED AS OF JUNE 30, 1993 PROVIDING FOR 2005 SERIES DT VARIABLE RATE SENIOR NOTES DUE 2029 ================================================================================
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of the 1st day of August 2005, between THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan (the "Company"), and J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (successor to Bank One Trust Company, National Association), a national banking association organized under the laws of the United States of America, having a corporate trust office in the City of Detroit, Michigan, as trustee (the "Trustee"); WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee a Collateral Trust Indenture dated as of June 30, 1993 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented, providing for the issuance by the Company from time to time of its debt securities; and WHEREAS, the Company now desires to provide for the issuance of an additional series of its senior debt securities pursuant to the Original Indenture to secure its obligations to XL Capital Assurance Inc., an insurance company incorporated under the laws of the State of New York (the "Insurer"), under the Insurance Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005 (the "Insurance Agreement") among the Company, the Insurer and the Bond Trustee relating to the financial guaranty insurance policy, No. CA02313A, issued by the Insurer with respect to the Michigan Strategic Fund Variable Rate Limited Obligation Refunding Revenue Bonds (The Detroit Edison Company Exempt Facilities Project), Series 2005DT (the "2005DT Bonds"); and WHEREAS, the Company intends hereby to designate a series of debt securities which shall have the benefit of the provisions of Article Four of the Original Indenture and the other related provisions of the Original Indenture relating to the grant of security, subject to the release provisions provided for herein, and which shall have the terms and variations from the provisions of the Original Indenture as set forth herein; and WHEREAS, the Company, in the exercise of the power and authority conferred upon and reserved to it under the provisions of the Original Indenture, including Section 1001 thereof, and pursuant to appropriate resolutions of the Board of Directors, has duly determined to make, execute and deliver to the Trustee this Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture to the Original Indenture as permitted by Sections 201 and 301 of the Original Indenture in order to establish the form or terms of, and to provide for the creation and issue of, a series of its debt securities under the Original Indenture, which shall be known as the 2005 Series DT Variable Rate Senior Notes due 2029; and WHEREAS, all things necessary to make such debt securities, when executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee or any Authenticating Agent and issued upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter and in the Original Indenture set forth against payment therefor, the valid, binding and legal obligations of the Company and to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal agreement of the Company, have been done; NOW, THEREFORE, THIS SEVENTEENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH that, in order to establish the terms of a series of debt securities, and for and in consideration of the premises and of the covenants contained in the Original Indenture and in this Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt 1
and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, it is mutually covenanted and agreed as follows: ARTICLE ONE DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION SECTION 1.01. Definitions. Each capitalized term that is used herein and is defined in the Original Indenture shall have the meaning specified in the Original Indenture unless such term is otherwise defined herein. The following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below: "2005DT Bonds" means the $119,175,000 Michigan Strategic Fund Variable Rate Limited Obligation Refunding Revenue Bonds (The Detroit Edison Company Exempt Facilities Project), Series 2005DT. "Bond Indenture" means the Trust Indenture, dated as of August 1, 2005, between the Michigan Strategic Fund and the Bond Trustee providing for the 2005DT Bonds. "Bond Trustee" means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as trustee under the Bond Indenture. "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day (i) on which commercial banks located in the cities in which the Principal Office of the Trustee, the Principal Office of the Company, the Principal Office of the Remarketing Agent, the Principal Office of the Auction Agent during any Auction Period or the Principal Office of the Paying Agent, each as defined in the Bond Indenture, are located are required or authorized by law or regulation to remain closed or are closed, or (ii) on which The New York Stock Exchange is closed. "Capitalization" means the total of all the following items appearing on, or included in, the consolidated balance sheet of the Company: (i) liabilities for indebtedness maturing more than 12 months from the date of determination; and (ii) common stock, common stock expense, accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, preferred stock, preference stock, premium on capital stock and retained earnings (however the foregoing may be designated), less, to the extent not otherwise deducted, the cost of shares of capital stock of the Company held in its treasury, if any. Subject to the foregoing, Capitalization shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and practices applicable to the type of business in which the Company is engaged and may be determined as of a date not more than 60 days prior to the happening of the event for which the determination is being made. In connection with such determination, the Company shall certify to the Trustee that it has, prior to making its final determination, consulted with the independent accountants regularly retained by the Company. "Debt" means any outstanding debt for money borrowed evidenced by notes, debentures, bonds or other securities, or guarantees of any debt. 2
"Net Tangible Assets" means the amount shown as total assets on the consolidated balance sheet of the Company, less (i) intangible assets including, but without limitation, such items as goodwill, trademarks, trade names, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other regulatory assets carried as an asset on the Company's consolidated balance sheet, and (ii) appropriate adjustments, if any, on account of minority interests. Net Tangible Assets shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and practices applicable to the type of business in which the Company is engaged and may be determined as of a date not more than 60 days prior to the happening of the event for which such determination is being made. In connection with such determination, the Company shall certify to the Trustee that it has, prior to making its final determination, consulted with the independent accountants regularly retained by the Company. "Operating Property" means (i) any interest in real property owned by the Company and (ii) any asset owned by the Company that is depreciable in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, excluding, in either case, any interest of the Company as lessee under any lease (except for a lease that results from a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction) that has been or would be capitalized on the books of the lessee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. "Pledged Bonds" means the related series of Bonds (as hereafter defined) and any other Mortgage Bonds issued to secure Securities subject to the release provisions provided herein or in any other supplemental indenture to the Original Indenture. "Release Date" means the date as of which all Mortgage Bonds, (i) other than the Pledged Bonds, including the related series of Bonds, and (ii) other than outstanding Mortgage Bonds (exclusive of Pledged Bonds), which do not in aggregate principal amount exceed the greater of 5% of the Net Tangible Assets of the Company or 5% of the Capitalization of the Company, have been retired through payment, redemption or otherwise, provided that no default or Event of Default has occurred and, at such time, is continuing under the Original Indenture. "Sale and Lease-Back Transaction" means any arrangement with any person providing for the leasing to the Company of any Operating Property (except for leases for a term, including any renewal or potential renewal, of not more than 48 months), which Operating Property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company to the person; provided, however, Sale and Lease-Back Transaction shall not include any arrangement first entered into prior to the date hereof and shall not include any transaction pursuant to which the Company sells Operating Property to, and thereafter purchases energy or services from, any entity, which transaction is ordered or authorized by any regulatory authority having jurisdiction over the Company or its operations or is entered into pursuant to any plan or program of industry restructuring ordered or authorized by any such regulatory authority. "Substitute Mortgage" means a mortgage indenture of the Company, other than the Mortgage, designated by the Company to the Trustee as a Substitute Mortgage pursuant to Section 4.03 hereof. The lien of the Substitute Mortgage shall have such priority, and be with respect to such property, as shall be specified by the Company in its sole discretion. 3
"Substitute Mortgage Bonds" means any mortgage bonds issued by the Company under a Substitute Mortgage and delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.03 hereof or pursuant to the comparable provision of any other supplemental indenture relating to Securities subject to the release provisions. "Value" means, with respect to a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, as of any particular time, the amount equal to the greater of (i) the net proceeds to the Company from the sale or transfer of the property leased pursuant to the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction or (ii) the net book value of the property, as determined by the Company in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles at the time of entering into the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, in either case multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be equal to the number of full years of the term of the lease that is part of the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction remaining at the time of determination and the denominator of which shall be equal to the number of full years of the term, without regard, in any case, to any renewal or extension options contained in the lease. SECTION 1.02. Section References. Each reference to a particular section set forth in this Supplemental Indenture shall, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to this Supplemental Indenture. ARTICLE TWO TITLE AND TERMS OF THE SECURITIES SECTION 2.01. Title of the Securities; Stated Maturity. This Supplemental Indenture hereby establishes a series of Securities, which shall be known as the Company's "2005 Series DT Variable Rate Senior Notes due 2029" (the "Notes"). For purposes of the Original Indenture, the Notes shall constitute a single series of Securities. The Stated Maturity on which the principal of the Notes shall be due and payable will be August 1, 2029. The Notes are being issued to secure the Company's obligations to the Insurer under the Insurance Agreement. SECTION 2.02. Certain Variations from the Original Indenture. (a) The Notes shall have the benefit of the provisions of the Original Indenture, including (for avoidance of doubt and not for purposes of limitation) the Granting Clause, the definitions of "Deliverable Mortgage Bonds," "Deliverable Securities," "Designated Mortgage Bonds," "Grant," "Mortgage," "Mortgage Bonds," "Mortgage Trustee," "Previously Delivered Mortgage Bonds," and "Trust Estate," Section 301 (20), Section 301 (a), Section 301 (b), Section 301 (d), and Article VI, subject, in each case, to the release provisions provided for in Section 4.02 herein. In addition, on and after the Release Date, unless Substitute Mortgage Bonds are issued to secure the Notes, the Notes shall have the benefit of the additional covenants set forth in Article Three hereof. (b) In the event the Company desires to provide for the payment of the Notes, in lieu of defeasing the Notes in accordance with Section 503 of the Original Indenture, it shall either redeem an equal principal amount of the 2005DT Bonds or take such action as shall be required by Article VIII of the Bond Indenture to defease an equal principal amount of the 2005DT Bonds. 4
Pursuant to Section 2.03(c) hereof, such redemption or defeasance shall result in the discharge of the Company's obligation with respect to the Notes and the cancellation of the Notes. (c) Any amount payable by the Company in respect of principal of the Notes whether at maturity or prior to maturity by redemption or upon redemption or acceleration or otherwise, in a circumstance where there has not been a corresponding payment of principal of 2005DT Bonds, shall be applied simultaneously to the redemption or defeasance of an equal principal amount of 2005DT Bonds in accordance with the Bond Indenture. In the event the amount so paid is insufficient to provide for such redemption or defeasance, the Company shall pay such additional amounts as shall be necessary to make up the deficiency. SECTION 2.03. Amount, Assignability and Redemption. (a) The aggregate principal amount of Notes that may be issued under this Supplemental Indenture is limited to $119,175,000 (except as provided in Section 301(2) of the Original Indenture). The Notes shall be issuable only in fully registered form and, as permitted by Section 301 and Section 302 of the Original Indenture, in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof to the Insurer. The Notes shall not be assignable or transferable except as may be required to effect a transfer to any successor insurer for the 2005DT Bonds. (b) The Notes may bear such legends as may be necessary to refer to the Insurance Agreement between the Company and the Insurer or to comply with any law or with any rules or regulations made pursuant thereto or to evidence the limited assignability. (c) Upon payment of the principal, premium, if any, or interest on the 2005DT Bonds, whether at maturity or prior to maturity by redemption or otherwise, or upon provision for the payment thereof having been made in accordance with Article IV or VIII of the Bond Indenture, Notes in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the 2005DT Bonds shall, to the extent of such payment of principal, premium or interest, be deemed fully paid and the obligation of the Company thereunder to make such payment shall forthwith cease and be discharged, and, in the case of the payment of principal and premium, if any, such Notes shall be surrendered for cancellation or presented for appropriate notation to the Trustee. (d) The Notes shall be redeemed on the date and in the principal amount which corresponds to the redemption date for, and the principal amount to be redeemed of, the 2005DT Bonds. (e) In the event of an Event of Default under the Bond Indenture and the acceleration of the 2005DT Bonds, the Notes shall be redeemable in whole upon receipt by the Trustee of a written demand (Redemption Demand) from the Insurer indicating that it has paid accelerated principal. SECTION 2.04. Certain Terms of the Notes. (a) The Notes shall bear interest at the rate of interest established for the 2005DT Bonds from time to time in accordance with the Bond Indenture on the principal amount thereof from the date of original issue, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, until the principal of the Notes becomes due and payable, and on any overdue 5
principal and premium and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) on any overdue installment of interest at the same rate during such overdue period. Interest on the Notes will be payable on such dates as interest shall be payable on the 2005DT Bonds (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date"). Payment of interest on the 2005DT Bonds shall be deemed to constitute payment of interest on the Notes. The amount of interest payable for any period shall be computed on the same basis as interest on the 2005DT Bonds pursuant to the Bond Indenture. (b) In the event that any Interest Payment Date, redemption date or other date of Maturity of the Notes is not a Business Day, then payment of the amount payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day which is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), in each case with the same force and effect as if made on such date. The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date with respect to any Note will, as provided in the Original Indenture, be paid to the person in whose name the Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities, as defined in the Original Indenture) is registered at the close of business on the relevant record date for such interest installment, which shall be the same as the record date for the 2005DT Bonds with respect to the relevant Interest Payment Date (the "Regular Record Date"). Any such interest installment not punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holders on such Regular Record Date, and may either be paid to the person in whose name the Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date to be fixed by the Trustee for the payment of such defaulted interest, notice whereof shall be given to the registered Holders of the Notes not less than ten days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Original Indenture. The principal of, and premium, if any, and the interest on the Notes shall be payable at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in any coin or currency of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the registered Holder at the close of business on the Regular Record Date at such address as shall appear in the Security Register. Any waiver or rescission of a declaration of acceleration of principal of the 2005DT Bonds shall constitute a waiver or rescission with respect to the Notes. (c) The Notes are not subject to repayment at the option of the Holders thereof and are not subject to any sinking fund, except to the extent that the Insurer, or its successor in interest, may have exercised its rights pursuant to Section 2.03 hereof. As provided in the form of the Note attached hereto as Exhibit A, the Notes are subject to Optional Redemption and Extraordinary Optional Redemption, as a whole or in part, and Special Optional Redemption, in whole, by the Company prior to Stated Maturity of the principal thereof upon the same terms as the 2005DT Bonds. Except as modified in the form of Note, redemptions shall be effected in accordance with Article Twelve of the Original Indenture. 6
(d) The Notes shall have such other terms and provisions as are set forth in the form of Note attached hereto as Exhibit A (which is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Supplemental Indenture as if set forth in full at this place). SECTION 2.05. Form of Note. Attached hereto as Exhibit A is the form of the definitive Note. If the Company elects to have the Notes secured by Substitute Mortgage Bonds on and after the Release Date, the terms of the Notes shall be amended to make appropriate reference to the Substitute Mortgage and the Substitute Mortgage Bonds; provided, that the consent of Holders shall not be required in connection with such amendment. ARTICLE THREE ADDITIONAL COVENANTS SECTION 3.01. Limitations on Liens. (a) From and after the Release Date, unless Substitute Mortgage Bonds are issued to secure the Notes, so long as any Notes are outstanding, the Company may not issue, assume, guarantee (including any contingent obligation to purchase) or permit to exist any Debt that is secured by any mortgage, security interest, pledge or lien ("Lien") of or upon any Operating Property owned by the Company, whether owned at the Release Date or subsequently acquired, without effectively securing the Notes (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of the Company ranking equally with the Notes) equally and ratably with the Debt (but only so long as the Debt is so secured). The foregoing restriction will not apply to: (i) Liens on any Operating Property existing at the time of its acquisition and not created in contemplation of the acquisition; (ii) Liens on Operating Property of a corporation existing at the time the corporation is merged into or consolidated with the Company, or at the time the corporation disposes of substantially all of its properties (or those of a division) to the Company, provided that the Lien is not extended to property owned by the Company immediately prior to the merger, consolidation or other disposition and is not created in contemplation of the merger, consolidation or other disposition; (iii) Liens on Operating Property to secure the cost of acquisition, construction, development or substantial repair, alteration or improvement of such property or to secure indebtedness incurred to provide funds for any of these purposes or for reimbursement of funds previously expended for any of these purposes, provided the Liens are created or assumed contemporaneously with, or within 18 months after, the acquisition or the completion of substantial repair or alteration, construction, development or substantial improvement or within 6 months thereafter pursuant to a commitment for financing arranged with a lender or investor within such 18-month period; 7
(iv) Liens in favor of the United States or any state or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States or any state, or for the benefit of holders of securities issued by any of these entities, to secure any Debt incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of substantially repairing or altering, constructing, developing or substantially improving the Operating Property; or (v) Any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in the exceptions listed above, provided, however, that the principal amount of Debt secured thereby and not otherwise authorized by those exceptions listed above shall not exceed the principal amount of Debt, plus any premium or fee payable in connection with any such extension, renewal or replacement, so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement. (b) In addition, notwithstanding the foregoing restrictions, from and after the Release Date, the Company may issue, assume or guarantee Debt secured by a Lien which would otherwise be subject to the foregoing restrictions up to an aggregate amount which, together with all other of the Company's secured Debt (not including secured Debt permitted under any of the foregoing exceptions) and the Value of Sale and Lease-Back Transactions existing at such time (other than Sale and Lease-Back Transactions the proceeds of which have been applied to the retirement of certain indebtedness, Sale and Lease-Back Transactions in which the property involved would have been permitted to be subjected to a Lien under any of the foregoing exceptions, and Sale and Lease-Back Transactions that are permitted by the first sentence of Section 3.02 below), does not exceed the greater of 10% of the Company's Net Tangible Assets or 10% of the Company's Capitalization. The foregoing restrictions do not limit the Company's ability to place Liens on (i) the capital stock of any of the Company's subsidiaries or (ii) the assets of any of the Company's subsidiaries. SECTION 3.02. Limitations on Sale and Lease-Back Transactions. So long as the Notes are outstanding from and after the Release Date, unless Substitute Mortgage Bonds are issued to secure the Notes, the Company may not enter into or permit to exist any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction with respect to any Operating Property (except for leases for a term, including any renewal or potential renewal, of not more than 48 months), if the purchaser's commitment is obtained more than 18 months after the later of the completion of the acquisition, construction or development of the Operating Property or the placing in operation of the Operating Property or of the Operating Property as constructed or developed or substantially repaired, altered or improved. This restriction will not apply if (a) the Company would be entitled pursuant to Section 3.01(a) above to issue, assume, guarantee or permit to exist Debt secured by a Lien on the Operating Property without equally and ratably securing the Notes, (b) after giving effect to the Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, pursuant to Section 3.01(b) above, the Company could incur, at least $1.00 of additional Debt secured by Liens (other than Liens permitted by clause (a)), or (c) the Company applies within 180 days an amount equal to, in the case of a sale or transfer for cash, the net proceeds (not less than the fair value of the Operating Property so leased), and, otherwise, an amount equal to the fair value (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company) of the Operating Property so leased to the retirement of Notes or other Debt of the Company ranking equally with the Notes; provided, however, that any such retirement of Notes shall be in 8
accordance with the terms and provisions of the Indenture and the Notes; provided, further, that the amount to be applied to such retirement of Notes or other Debt shall be reduced by an amount equal to the sum of (a) an amount equal to the redemption price with respect to Notes delivered within such one hundred eighty (180)-day period to the Trustee for retirement and cancellation and (b) the principal amount, plus any premium or fee paid in connection with any redemption in accordance with the terms of other Debt voluntarily retired by the Company within such one hundred eighty (180)-day period, excluding in each case retirements pursuant to mandatory sinking fund or prepayment provisions and payments at Stated Maturity. SECTION 3.03. Waiver. Section 1109 of the Original Indenture shall apply to the covenants set forth in Sections 3.01 and 3.02 above at any time such covenants are in effect. ARTICLE FOUR SECURITY AND RELEASE PROVISIONS SECTION 4.01. Security. Subject to Section 4.02 below, as provided in and pursuant to Article Four of the Original Indenture, the Notes will be secured as to payments of principal, interest and premium, if any, by a series of Mortgage Bonds (the "General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 2005 Series DT", the "Bonds", the "Bonds of the related series" or the "related series of Bonds") of the Company to be issued concurrently with the issuance of the Notes under and secured by a Mortgage and Deed of Trust, dated as of October 1, 1924, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee (the "Mortgage Trustee"), as amended and supplemented by various supplemental indentures, including the supplemental indenture, dated as of August 1, 2005, creating the Bonds (collectively, the "Mortgage"), pledged by the Company for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes to the Trustee under this Supplemental Indenture. The Bonds shall be issued in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Notes. SECTION 4.02. Release. Until the Release Date and subject to Article Four of the Original Indenture, the Bonds of the related series issued and delivered to the Trustee shall serve as security for any and all obligations of the Company under all Notes from time to time Outstanding, including, but not limited to (1) the full and prompt payment of the principal and premium, if any, on the Notes when and as the same shall become due and payable in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Indenture or the Notes, either at the Stated Maturity thereof, upon acceleration of the maturity thereof, upon redemption, or otherwise, and (2) the full and prompt payment of any interest on the Notes when and as the same shall become due and payable in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Indenture or the Notes including, if and to the extent provided for in the Notes, interest on overdue installments of principal and (to the extent permitted by law) interest on overdue installments of interest. Each supplemental indenture to the Mortgage pursuant to which any Bonds are issued shall contain a provision to the effect that any payment by the Company hereunder of principal of or premium or interest on Notes which shall have been authenticated and delivered in connection with the issuance and delivery to the Trustee of such Bonds (other than by the application of the proceeds of a payment in respect of such Bonds) shall to the extent thereof, be deemed to satisfy 9
and discharge the obligation of the Company, if any, to make a payment of principal, premium or interest, as the case may be, in respect of such Bonds which is then due. Notwithstanding anything in the Original Indenture to the contrary, from and after the Release Date, the obligation of the Company to make payment with respect to the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds shall be deemed satisfied and discharged as provided in the supplemental indenture or indentures to the Mortgage creating such Bonds and the Bonds shall cease to secure in any manner Notes theretofore or subsequently issued; the Trustee shall thereupon surrender the Bonds to the Mortgage Trustee for cancellation and execute and deliver such proper instruments of release as may be required. From and after the Release Date, all Notes, whether theretofore or subsequently issued, shall, at the Company's option, either (i) become unsecured or (ii) be secured by Substitute Mortgage Bonds pursuant to Section 4.03 below, and any conditions to the issuance of Notes that refer or relate to Bonds or the Mortgage shall be inapplicable (except as such conditions shall be deemed to refer to Substitute Mortgage Bonds or a Substitute Mortgage pursuant to Section 4.03 below). From and after the Release Date, the Company shall not issue any additional Mortgage Bonds, including Pledged Bonds, under the Mortgage. Notice of the occurrence of the Release Date shall be given by the Trustee to the Holders of the Notes in the manner provided for in the Original Indenture not later than 30 days after the Company notifies the Trustee of the occurrence of the Release Date. In connection with the establishment of the occurrence of the Release Date, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, may presume the correctness of, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate designating the Release Date and stating that the conditions to the occurrence of the Release Date have been satisfied. When the obligation of the Company to make payments with respect to the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on all or any part of the Bonds shall be satisfied or deemed satisfied pursuant to the Original Indenture or pursuant to this Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall, upon written request of the Company, deliver to the Company without charge therefor all of the Bonds so satisfied or deemed satisfied, together with such appropriate instruments of transfer or release as may be reasonably requested by the Company. All Bonds delivered to the Company in accordance with this Section shall be delivered by the Company to the Mortgage Trustee for cancellation. SECTION 4.03. Substitute Mortgage Bonds. (a) The Company shall notify the Trustee not less than 90 days prior to the Release Date (or such shorter period as the Company and the Trustee may agree) that the Company has determined to deliver to the Trustee on the Release Date Substitute Mortgage Bonds in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Notes and any other Securities subject to the release provisions Outstanding on the Release Date, in trust for the benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Notes and any other Securities subject to the release provisions issued under the Original Indenture, as supplemented, as security for any and all obligations of the Company under the Notes and any other Securities subject to the release provisions, including but not limited to, (1) the full and prompt payment of the principal of and premium, if any, on the Notes and any other Securities subject to the release provisions when and as the same shall become due and payable in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Original Indenture, as supplemented, or the Notes or such other Securities subject to the release provisions, either at the stated maturity thereof, upon acceleration of the maturity thereof or upon redemption, and (2) the full and prompt payment of any interest on the Notes and any other Securities subject to the release provisions when and as the same shall become due 10
and payable in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Original Indenture, as supplemented, or the Notes or such other Securities subject to the release provisions. (b) The Substitute Mortgage Bonds to be delivered pursuant to the notice described in Section 4.03(a) shall be delivered in separate series and issues corresponding to the series and issues of Notes and other Securities subject to the release provisions Outstanding on the Release Date, each series or issue of Substitute Mortgage Bonds having the same stated rate or rates of interest (or interest calculated in the same manner), Interest Payment Dates, stated maturity date and redemption provisions, and in the same aggregate principal amount, as the related series or issue of Notes or other Securities subject to the release provisions outstanding on the Release Date. The Company shall enter into a Substitute Mortgage for the issuance of Substitute Mortgage Bonds, and designate it as such in the notice. (c) The notice described in Section 4.03(a) shall also state that on the Release Date the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture to the Original Indenture that will provide, among other things, that upon the issuance of Notes and other Securities subject to the release provisions on or after the Release Date, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee in trust for the benefit of the Holders as described in Section 4.03(a) hereof, and the Trustee shall accept therefor, related series of Substitute Mortgage Bonds registered in the name of the Trustee and conforming to the requirements therein specified. (d) The determination whether to deliver Substitute Mortgage Bonds shall be made in the Company's sole discretion and without any obligation to do so. (e) In the event that the Company does not deliver the notice described in Section 4.03(a), the Notes and other Securities subject to the release provisions Outstanding on the Release Date shall, as of the Release Date, no longer be entitled to the benefit of the pledge of the Pledged Bonds and shall thereafter be general unsecured obligations of the Company. (f) Article Four and related provisions of the Original Indenture shall apply to Substitute Mortgage Bonds pledged to the Trustee hereunder and the provisions thereof shall be deemed to refer to the Substitute Mortgage and the Substitute Mortgage Bonds. If the Company elects to have the Notes secured by Substitute Mortgage Bonds on and after the Release Date, Article Four and related provisions may be amended to make appropriate reference to the Substitute Mortgage and the Substitute Mortgage Bonds; provided, that the consent of Holders shall not be required in connection with such amendment. 11
SECTION 4.04. Events of Default. (a) On and after the Release Date, Section 601(8) of the Original Indenture shall no longer apply to the Notes. For purposes of the Notes, Section 601(8) of the Original Indenture shall read, "the occurrence of an "event of default" as such term is defined in the Mortgage; or". (b) On and after the Release Date, if the Notes become secured by Substitute Mortgage Bonds pursuant to Section 4.03 above, the occurrence of an "event of default" (as defined in the Substitute Mortgage) shall constitute an Event of Default under Section 601 of the Original Indenture with respect to the Notes and the references in Section 601(4) of the Original Indenture and related provisions to "Mortgage Bonds" shall be deemed to refer to "Substitute Mortgage Bonds." ARTICLE FIVE MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS The Trustee makes no undertaking or representations in respect of, and shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for and in respect of, the validity or sufficiency of this Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture or the proper authorization or the due execution hereof by the Company or for or in respect of the recitals and statements contained herein, all of which recitals and statements are made solely by the Company. Except as expressly amended hereby and by the supplemental indenture appointing the Trustee as successor trustee, the Original Indenture shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the provisions thereof and the Original Indenture is in all respects hereby ratified and confirmed. This Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture and all its provisions shall be deemed a part of the Original Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided. This Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. This Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written. THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY By: /s/ Paul A. Stadnikia ---------------------------------- Name: Paul A. Stadnikia Title: Assistant Treasurer ATTEST: By: /s/ Sandra K. Ennis ------------------------ Name: Sandra K. Ennis Title: Corporate Secretary 13
J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: /s/ J. Michael Banas ---------------------------- Name: J. Michael Banas Title: Vice President ATTEST: By: /s/ Alexis M. Johnson ----------------------- Name: Alexis M. Johnson Title: Authorized Officer 14
EXHIBIT A THIS NOTE IS BEING ISSUED TO XL Capital Assurance Inc., an insurance company incorporated under the laws of the State of New York (the "Insurer"), TO SECURE THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY (THE "COMPANY") TO THE INSURER UNDER THE INSURANCE AGREEMENT DATED AS OF AUGUST 1, 2005 AMONG THE COMPANY, THE INSURER AND THE BOND TRUSTEE REFERRED TO HEREIN. THIS NOTE IS NOT TRANSFERABLE OR ASSIGNABLE EXCEPT AS MAY BE REQUIRED TO EFFECT A TRANSFER TO A SUCCESSOR INSURER OF THE MICHIGAN STRATEGIC FUND VARIABLE RATE LIMITED OBLIGATION REFUNDING REVENUE BONDS (THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY EXEMPT FACILITIES PROJECT), SERIES 2005DT. No. R-1 $119,175,000 THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY 2005 Series DT variable rate SENIOR NOTES DUE 2029 Principal Amount: $119,175,000 Authorized Denomination: $1,000 Regular Record Date: Same as the record date for the 2005DT Bonds with respect to the relevant Interest Payment Date Original Issue Date: August 17, 2005 Stated Maturity: August 1, 2029 Interest Payment Dates: Such dates as interest shall be payable on the 2005DT Bonds Interest Rate: Such rate as is established for the 2005DT Bonds from time to time THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan (the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to XL Capital Assurance Inc., or registered assigns, at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York, New York, the principal sum of One Hundred Nineteen Million One Hundred Seventy-five Thousand Dollars ($119,175,000) on August 1, 2029 (the "Stated Maturity"), in the coin or currency of the United States, and to pay interest thereon from the Original Issue Date shown above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, in arrears on each Interest Payment Date as specified above, commencing on the first date on which interest is payable on the 2005DT Bonds, and on the Stated Maturity at the rate per annum shown above (the "Interest Rate") until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue installment A-1
of interest. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered on the Regular Record Date as specified above next preceding such Interest Payment Date. This note is being issued to XL Capital Assurance Inc., an insurance company incorporated under the laws of the State of New York (the "Insurer"), to secure the Company's obligations to the Insurer under the Insurance Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005 (the "Insurance Agreement") among the Company, the Insurer and the Bond Trustee relating to Financial Guaranty Insurance Policy No. CA02313A issued by the Insurer with respect to the Michigan Strategic Fund Variable Rate Limited Obligation Refunding Revenue Bonds (The Detroit Edison Company Exempt Facilities Project), Series 2005DT (the "2005DT Bonds"), which are issued under the Trust Indenture dated as of August 1, 2005 (the "Bond Indenture") between the Michigan Strategic Fund and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (the "Bond Trustee"). Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes of this series shall be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by any such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note shall be computed and paid on the same basis as interest on the 2005DT Bonds pursuant to the Bond Indenture. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent lawful, on overdue installments of interest at the rate per annum borne by this Note. In the event that any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Maturity Date is not a Business Day, then the required payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), in each case with the same force and effect as if made on such date. "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other day (i) on which commercial banks located in the cities in which the Principal Office of the Trustee, the Principal Office of the Company, the Principal Office of the Remarketing Agent, the Principal Office of the Auction Agent during any Auction Period or the Principal Office of the Paying Agent, each as defined in the Bond Indenture, are located are required or authorized by law or regulation to remain closed or are closed, or (ii) on which The New York Stock Exchange is closed. Payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes shall be made in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest due at the Stated Maturity or earlier redemption of such Securities shall be made at the office of the Paying Agent upon surrender of such Securities to the Paying Agent. Payments of interest shall be made, at the option of the Company, subject to such surrender where applicable, by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register. A-2
UNTIL THE RELEASE DATE (AS DEFINED BELOW), THIS NOTE SHALL BE SECURED BY GENERAL AND REFUNDING MORTGAGE BONDS, 2005 SERIES DT (THE "MORTGAGE BONDS") ISSUED AND DELIVERED BY THE COMPANY TO THE TRUSTEE (AS DEFINED BELOW) UNDER THE COMPANY'S SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE DATED AS OF AUGUST 1, 2005, SUPPLEMENTING THE MORTGAGE AND DEED OF TRUST DATED AS OF OCTOBER 1, 1924 BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (THE "MORTGAGE TRUSTEE"), PLEDGED BY THE COMPANY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE HOLDERS OF THE NOTES TO THE TRUSTEE UNDER THE INDENTURE (THE "MORTGAGE"). ON THE RELEASE DATE, THE NOTES SHALL CEASE TO BE SECURED BY SUCH MORTGAGE BONDS AND, AT THE COMPANY'S OPTION, SHALL EITHER (1) BECOME UNSECURED GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY OR (2) BE SECURED BY SUBSTITUTE MORTGAGE BONDS UNDER A SUBSTITUTE MORTGAGE. Unless the Certificate of Authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee or a duly appointed Authentication Agent referred to herein, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. This Note is one of a duly authorized series of Securities of the Company (herein sometimes referred to as the "Notes"), specified in the Indenture, all issued or to be issued in one or more series under and pursuant to a Collateral Trust Indenture dated as of June 30, 1993 (the "Original Indenture") duly executed and delivered between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee (herein referred to as the "Trustee"), as supplemented through and including an Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 1, 2005 (together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture") between the Company and the Trustee, to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a description of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the registered Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. The Notes are not subject to repayment at the option of the Holders thereof and are not subject to any sinking fund, except to the extent that the Insurer, or its successor in interest, may have exercised its rights pursuant to Section 2.03 of the aforesaid Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture. The Notes are subject to Optional Redemption and Extraordinary Optional Redemption, as a whole or in part, and Special Optional Redemption, in whole, by the Company prior to Stated Maturity of the principal thereof upon the same terms as the 2005DT Bonds are subject to redemption. Upon payment of the principal or premium, if any, on the 2005DT Bonds, whether at maturity or prior to maturity by redemption or otherwise, or upon provision for the payment thereof having been made in accordance with Article IV or VIII of the Bond Indenture, or upon payment of interest on the 2005DT Bonds, Notes in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the 2005DT Bonds so paid, or interest on Notes in an amount equal to the interest on the 2005DT Bonds so paid, as the case may be, shall, to the extent of such payment, be deemed fully paid and the obligation of the Company thereunder to make such payment shall forthwith cease and be discharged, and, in the case of the payment of principal and premium, if any, such Notes shall be surrendered for cancellation or presented for appropriate notation to the Trustee. A-3
Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on this Note that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Record Date. Notice of any Optional, Extraordinary Optional or Special Optional Redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Optional, Extraordinary Optional or Special Optional Redemption Date, as the case may be, to the Holder hereof at its registered address. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the applicable Redemption Price, on and after the applicable Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on the principal amount of this Note called for redemption. If money sufficient to pay the applicable Redemption Price with respect to the principal amount of and accrued interest on the principal amount of this Note to be redeemed on the applicable Redemption Date is deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent on or before the related Redemption Date and certain other conditions are satisfied, then on or after such date, interest will cease to accrue on the principal amount of this Note called for redemption. If the Company elects to redeem all or a portion of the Notes, the redemption will be conditional upon receipt by the Paying Agent or the Trustee of monies sufficient to pay the Redemption Price. If the Notes are only partially redeemed by the Company, the Trustee shall select which Notes are to be redeemed in a manner it deems fair and appropriate in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of this series for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the registered Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof. In case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of all of the Notes may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein. In the event the Company desires to provide for the payment of Notes, in lieu of defeasing the Notes in accordance with the Indenture, the Company shall either redeem an equal principal amount of 2005DT Bonds or take such action as shall be required by the Bond Indenture to defease an equal principal amount of 2005DT Bonds. Any amount payable by the Company in respect of principal of the Notes, whether at maturity or prior to maturity by redemption or otherwise, in a circumstance where there has not been a corresponding payment of principal of 2005DT Bonds, shall be applied simultaneously to the redemption or defeasance of any equal principal amount of 2005DT Bonds in accordance with the Bond Indenture. A-4
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the registered Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of each series affected at the time, as defined in the Indenture, to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the registered Holders of the Securities; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall (i) extend the fixed maturity of any Securities of any series, or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate of or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, without the consent of the registered Holder of each Security so affected or (ii) reduce the aforesaid percentage of Securities, the registered Holders of which are required to consent to any such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the registered Holders of each Security then outstanding and affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting (i) the registered Holders of at least 66 2/3% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time outstanding affected thereby, on behalf of the registered Holders of the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and (ii) the registered Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time outstanding affected thereby, on behalf of the registered Holders of the Securities of such series, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the registered Holder of this Note (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such registered Holder and upon all future registered Holders and owners of this Note and of any Note issued in exchange hereof or in place hereof (whether by registration of transfer or otherwise), irrespective of whether or not any notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time and place and at the rate and in the coin or currency herein prescribed. Prior to the Release Date, the Notes of this series shall be secured by a series of Mortgage Bonds (the "Related Series of Bonds"), delivered by the Company to the Trustee for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes. Reference is made to the Mortgage and the Indenture for a description of the rights of the Trustee as Holder of the Related Series of Bonds, the property mortgaged and pledged under the Mortgage and the rights of the Company and of the Mortgage Trustee in respect thereof, the duties and immunities of the Mortgage Trustee and the terms and conditions upon which the Related Series of Bonds are secured and the circumstances under which additional Mortgage Bonds may be issued. FROM AND AFTER SUCH TIME AS ALL BONDS, OTHER THAN (1) PLEDGED BONDS, INCLUDING THE RELATED SERIES OF BONDS, AND (2) MORTGAGE BONDS (EXCLUSIVE OF PLEDGED BONDS), WHICH DO NOT IN AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT EXCEED THE GREATER OF FIVE PERCENT (5%) OF NET TANGIBLE ASSETS OR FIVE PERCENT (5%) OF CAPITALIZATION, HAVE BEEN RETIRED THROUGH PAYMENT, REDEMPTION OR OTHERWISE (INCLUDING THOSE A-5
MORTGAGE BONDS THE PAYMENT FOR WHICH HAS BEEN PROVIDED FOR IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE MORTGAGE) AT, BEFORE OR AFTER THE MATURITY THEREOF, PROVIDED THAT NO DEFAULT OR EVENT OF DEFAULT HAS OCCURRED AND IS CONTINUING (THE "RELEASE DATE"), THE RELATED SERIES OF BONDS SHALL CEASE TO SECURE THE NOTES IN ANY MANNER. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any interest on this Note are payable or at such other offices or agencies as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by or accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar or any transfer agent duly executed by the registered Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge will be made for any such transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in relation thereto. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of this Note, the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and any Note Registrar may deem and treat the registered Holder hereof as the absolute owner hereof (whether or not this Note shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing hereon made by anyone other than the Note Registrar) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account of the principal hereof and interest due hereon and for all other purposes, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. As set forth in, and subject to the provisions of, the Indenture, no Holder of any Note will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless (i) such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Notes of this series, (ii) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, (iii) the Trustee shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days and (iv) the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes of this series a direction inconsistent with such request within such 60-day period; provided, however, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or any interest on this Note on or after the respective due dates expressed herein. All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. A-6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Note to be duly executed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written. THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY By: ___________________________________ Name: Title: ATTEST: By: _______________________________ Name: Title: A-7
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION This is one of the Notes of the series of Notes described in the within mentioned Indenture. J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: ___________________________________ Authorized Signatory Date: August 17, 2005 A-8
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please insert Social Security or Other Identifying Number of Assignee) ________________________________________________________________________________ (Please print or type name and address, including zip code of assignee) the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing such person attorneys to transfer the within Note on the books of the Issuer, with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: __________________ NOTICE: The signature of this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within Note in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever and NOTICE: Signature(s) must be guaranteed by a financial institution that is a member of the Securities Transfer Agents Medallion Program ("STAMP"), the Stock Exchange, Inc. Medallion Signature Program ("MSP"). When assignment is made by a guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a corporation, or anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his or her authority to act must accompany this Note. A-9

EXHIBIT 4.2 INDENTURE DATED AS OF AUGUST 1, 2005 --------------- THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY (2000 2nd Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226) TO J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (Successor to Bank One, National Association) (611 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226) AS TRUSTEE --------------- SUPPLEMENTAL TO MORTGAGE AND DEED OF TRUST DATED AS OF OCTOBER 1, 1924 PROVIDING FOR (A) GENERAL AND REFUNDING MORTGAGE BONDS, 2005 SERIES DT, AND (B) RECORDING AND FILING DATA
TABLE OF CONTENTS* - --------------- * This Table of Contents shall not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture. 2
PARTIES. SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of the 1st day of August, in the year 2005, between THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan and a public utility (hereinafter called the "Company"), party of the first part, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (successor to Bank One, National Association), a trust company organized and existing under the laws of the United States, having a corporate trust office at 611 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226, as successor Trustee under the Mortgage and Deed of Trust hereinafter mentioned (hereinafter called the "Trustee"), party of the second part. ORIGINAL WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered its INDENTURE AND Mortgage and Deed of Trust (hereinafter referred to as the SUPPLEMENTALS. "Original Indenture"), dated as of October 1, 1924, to the Trustee, for the security of all bonds of the Company outstanding thereunder, and pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Original Indenture, indentures dated as of, respectively, June 1, 1925, August 1, 1927, February 1, 1931, June 1, 1931, October 1, 1932, September 25, 1935, September 1, 1936, November 1, 1936, February 1, 1940, December 1, 1940, September 1, 1947, March 1, 1950, November 15, 1951, January 15, 1953, May 1, 1953, March 15, 1954, May 15, 1955, August 15, 1957, June 1, 1959, December 1, 1966, October 1, 1968, December 1, 1969, July 1, 1970, December 15, 1970, June 15, 1971, November 15, 1971, January 15, 1973, May 1, 1974, October 1, 1974, January 15, 1975, November 1, 1975, December 15, 1975, February 1, 1976, June 15, 1976, July 15, 1976, February 15, 1977, March 1, 1977, June 15, 1977, July 1, 1977, October 1, 1977, June 1, 1978, October 15, 1978, March 15, 1979, July 1, 1979, September 1, 1979, September 15, 1979, January 1, 1980, April 1, 1980, August 15, 1980, August 1, 1981, November 1, 1981, June 30, 1982, August 15, 1982, June 1, 1983, October 1, 1984, May 1, 1985, May 15, 1985, October 15, 1985, April 1, 1986, August 15, 1986, November 30, 1986, January 31, 1987, April 1, 1987, August 15, 1987, November 30, 1987, June 15, 1989, July 15, 1989, December 1, 1989, February 15, 1990, November 1, 1990, April 1, 1991, May 1, 1991, May 15, 1991, September 1, 1991, November 1, 1991, January 15, 1992, February 29, 1992, April 15, 1992, July 15, 1992, July 31, 1992, November 30, 1992, December 15, 1992, January 1, 1993, March 1, 1993, March 15, 1993, April 1, 1993, April 26, 1993, May 31, 1993, June 30, 1993, June 30, 1993, September 15, 1993, March 1, 1994, June 15, 1994, August 15, 1994, December 1, 1994, August 1, 1995, August 1, 1999, August 15, 1999 and January 1, 2000, April 15, 2000, August 1, 2000, March 15, 2001, May 1, 2001, August 15, 2001, September 15, 2001, September 17, 2002, October 15, 2002, December 1, 2002, August 1, 2003, March 15, 2004, July 1, 2004, February 1, 2005 and April 1, 2005 supplemental to the Original Indenture, have heretofore been entered into between the Company and the Trustee (the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto together being hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Indenture"); and ISSUE OF BONDS WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that said bonds shall be UNDER issuable in one or more series, and makes provision that the INDENTURE. rates of interest and dates for the payment thereof, the date of maturity or dates of maturity, if of serial maturity, the terms and rates of optional redemption (if redeemable), the forms of registered bonds without coupons of any series and any other provisions and agreements in respect thereof, in the Indenture provided and permitted, as the 3
Board of Directors may determine, may be expressed in a supplemental indenture to be made by the Company to the Trustee thereunder; and BONDS WHEREAS, bonds in the principal amount of Eleven billion two HERETOFORE hundred twenty-three million six hundred twenty-seven thousand ISSUED. ($11,223,627,000) have heretofore been issued under the Indenture as follows, viz: (1) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $26,016,000, Series A (2) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $23,000,000, Series B (3) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $20,000,000, Series C (4) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series D (5) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $15,000,000, Series E (6) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $49,000,000, Series F (7) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $35,000,000, Series G (8) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series H (9) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $60,000,000, Series I (10) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $35,000,000, Series J (11) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $40,000,000, Series K (12) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $24,000,000, Series L (13) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $40,000,000, Series M (14) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $40,000,000, Series N (15) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $60,000,000, Series O 4
(16) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $70,000,000, Series P (17) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $40,000,000, Series Q (18) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series W (19) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $100,000,000, Series AA (20) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series BB (21) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series CC (22) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $100,000,000, Series UU (23-31) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $14,305,000, Series DDP Nos. 1-9 (32-45) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $45,600,000, Series FFR Nos. 1-14 (46-67) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $42,300,000, Series GGP Nos. 1-22 (68) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series HH (69-90) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $3,750,000, Series IIP Nos. 1-22 (91-98) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $6,850,000, Series JJP Nos. 1-8 (99-107) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $34,890,000, Series KKP Nos. 1-9 (108-122) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $8,850,000, Series LLP Nos. 1-15 5
(123-143) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $47,950,000, Series NNP Nos. 1-21 (144-161) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $18,880,000, Series OOP Nos. 1-18 (162-180) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $13,650,000, Series QQP Nos. 1-19 (181-195) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $3,800,000, Series TTP Nos. 1-15 (196) Bonds of 1980 -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series A (197-221) Bonds of 1980 -- Principal Amount $35,000,000, Series CP Nos. 1-25 (222-232) Bonds of 1980 -- Principal Amount $10,750,000, Series DP Nos. 1-11 (233-248) Bonds of 1981 -- Principal Amount $124,000,000, Series AP Nos. 1-16 (249) Bonds of 1985 -- Principal Amount $35,000,000, Series A (250) Bonds of 1985 -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series B (251) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $70,000,000, Series PP (252) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $70,000,000, Series RR (253) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series EE (254-255) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $5,430,000, Series MMP and MMP No. 2 (256) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $75,000,000, Series T 6
(257) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $75,000,000, Series U (258) Bonds of 1986 -- Principal Amount $100,000,000, Series B (259) Bonds of 1987 -- Principal Amount $250,000,000, Series D (260) Bonds of 1987 -- Principal Amount $150,000,000, Series E (261) Bonds of 1987 -- Principal Amount $225,000,000, Series C (262) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $100,000,000, Series V (263) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $150,000,000, Series SS (264) Bonds of 1980 -- Principal Amount $100,000,000, Series B (265) Bonds of 1986 -- Principal Amount $200,000,000, Series C (266) Bonds of 1986 -- Principal Amount $200,000,000, Series A (267) Bonds of 1987 -- Principal Amount $175,000,000, Series B (268) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $100,000,000, Series X (269) Bonds of 1987 -- Principal Amount $200,000,000, Series F (270) Bonds of 1987 -- Principal Amount $300,000,000, Series A (271) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $60,000,000, Series Y (272) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $100,000,000, Series Z (273) Bonds of 1989 -- Principal Amount $300,000,000, Series A (274) Bonds of 1984 -- Principal Amount $2,400,000, Series AP 7
(275) Bonds of 1984 -- Principal Amount $7,750,000, Series BP (276) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $100,000,000, Series R (277) Bonds of -- Principal Amount $150,000,000, Series S (278) Bonds of 1993 -- Principal Amount $100,000,000, Series D (279) Bonds of 1992 -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series E (280) Bonds of 1993 -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series B (281) Bonds of 1989 -- Principal Amount $66,565,000, Series BP (282) Bonds of 1990 -- Principal Amount $194,649,000, Series A (283) Bonds of 1990 -- Principal Amount $0, Series D (284) Bonds of 1993 -- Principal Amount $225,000,000, Series G (285) Bonds of 1993 -- Principal Amount $160,000,000, Series K (286) Bonds of 1991 -- Principal Amount $41,480,000, Series EP (287) Bonds of 1993 -- Principal Amount $50,000,000, Series H (288) Bonds of 1999 -- Principal Amount $40,000,000, Series D (289) Bonds of 1991 -- Principal Amount $98,375,000, Series FP (290) Bonds of 1992 -- Principal Amount $20,975,000, Series BP (291) Bonds of 1992 -- Principal Amount $300,000,000, Series D 8
(292) Bonds of 1992 -- Principal Amount $35,000,000, Series CP (293) Bonds of 1993 -- Principal Amount $225,000,000, Series C (294) Bonds of 1993 -- Principal Amount $400,000,000, Series E (295) Bonds of 1993 -- Principal Amount $300,000,000, Series J (296-301) Bonds of Series KKP -- Principal Amount $179,590,000, Nos. 10-15 (302) Bonds of 1989 Series -- Principal Amount $36,000,000, BP No. 2 (303) Bonds of 1993 Series -- Principal Amount $5,685,000, FP (304) Bonds of 1993 Series -- Principal Amount $5,825,000, IP (305) Bonds of 1994 Series -- Principal Amount $7,535,000, AP (306) Bonds of 1994 Series -- Principal Amount $12,935,000, BP (307) Bonds of 1994 -- Principal Amount $23,700,000, Series DP (308) Bonds of 1994 -- Principal Amount $200,000,000, and Series C (309) Bonds of 2000 -- Principal Amount $220,000,000; Series A all of which have either been retired and cancelled, or no longer represent obligations of the Company, having matured or having been called for redemption and funds necessary to effect the payment, redemption and retirement thereof having been deposited with the Trustee as a special trust fund to be applied for such purpose; (310) Bonds of 1990 Series B in the principal amount of Two hundred fifty-six million nine hundred thirty-two thousand dollars ($256,932,000) of which One hundred fifty-two million two hundred fifty-six thousand dollars ($152,256,000) principal amount havetofore been retired and One hundred and four million six hundred seventy-six thousand dollars ($104,676,000) principal amount are outstanding at the date hereof; 9
(311) Bonds of 1990 Series C in the principal amount of Eighty-five million four hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($85,475,000) of which Fifty-four million seven hundred and four thousand dollars ($54,704,000) principal amount have heretofore been retired and Thirty million seven hundred seventy-one thousand dollars ($30,771,000) principal amount are outstanding at the date hereof; (312) INTENTIONALLY RESERVED FOR 1990 SERIES E; (313) INTENTIONALLY RESERVED FOR 1990 SERIES F; (314) Bonds of 1991 Series AP in the principal amount of Thirty-two million three hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($32,375,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (315) Bonds of 1991 Series BP in the principal amount of Twenty-five million nine hundred ten thousand dollars ($25,910,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (316) Bonds of 1991 Series CP in the principal amount of Thirty-two million eight hundred thousand dollars ($32,800,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (317) Bonds of 1991 Series DP in the principal amount of Thirty-seven million six hundred thousand dollars ($37,600,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (318) Bonds of 1992 Series AP in the principal amount of Sixty-six million dollars ($66,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (319) Bonds of 1993 Series AP in the principal amount of Sixty-five million dollars ($65,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (320) Bonds of 1995 Series AP in the principal amount of Ninety-seven million dollars ($97,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (321) Bonds of 1995 Series BP in the principal amount of Twenty-two million, one hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($22,175,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (322) Bonds of 1999 Series AP in the principal amount of One hundred eighteen million three hundred sixty thousand dollars ($118,360,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (323) Bonds of 1999 Series BP in the principal amount of Thirty-nine million seven hundred forty-five thousand dollars ($39,745,000), all of which are outstanding of the date hereof; (324) Bonds of 1999 Series CP in the principal amount of Sixty-six million five hundred sixty-five thousand dollars ($66,565,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; 10
(325) Bonds of 2000 Series B in the principal amount of Fifty million seven hundred forty-five thousand dollars ($50,745,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (326) Bonds of 2001 Series AP in the principal amount of Thirty-one million ($31,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (327) Bonds of 2001 Series BP in the principal amount of Eighty-two million three hundred fifty thousand ($82,350,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (328) Bonds of 2001 Series CP in the principal amount of One hundred thirty-nine million eight hundred fifty-five thousand dollars ($139,855,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (329) Bonds of 2001 Series D in the principal amount of Two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (330) Bonds of 2001 Series E in the principal amount of Five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (331) Bonds of 2002 Series A in the principal amount of Two hundred twenty-five million dollars ($225,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (332) Bonds of 2002 Series B in the principal amount of Two hundred twenty-five million dollars ($225,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (333) Bonds of 2002 Series C in the principal amount of Sixty-four million three hundred thousand dollars ($64,300,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (334) Bonds of 2002 Series D in the principal amount of Fifty-five million nine hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($55,975,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (335) Bonds of 2003 Series A in the principal amount of Forty-nine million dollars ($49,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (336) Bonds of 2004 Series A in the principal amount of Thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (337) Bonds of 2004 Series B in the principal amount of Thirty-one million nine hundred eighty thousand dollars ($31,980,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (338) Bonds of 2004 Series D in the principal amount of Two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (339) Bonds of 2005 Series A in the principal amount of Two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; (340) Bonds of 2005 Series B in the principal amount of Two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), all of which are outstanding at the date hereof; 11
(341) INTENTIONALLY RESERVED FOR 2005 SERIES AR; and (342) INTENTIONALLY RESERVED FOR 2005 SERIES BR; accordingly, the Company has issued and has presently outstanding Three billion thirty million one hundred eighty-two thousand dollars ($3,030,182,000) aggregate principal amount of its General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds (the "Bonds") at the date hereof. REASON FOR WHEREAS, the Company intends to issue a series of Notes under CREATION OF the Note Indenture herein referred to, and, pursuant to the Note NEW SERIES. Indenture, in order to secure its obligations to XL Capital Assurance Inc., an insurance company incorporated under the laws of the State of New York (the "Insurer"), under the Insurance Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005 (the "Insurance Agreement") among the Company, the Insurer and the Strategic Fund Bond Trustee relating to the financial guaranty insurance policy issued by the Insurer with respect to the Michigan Strategic Fund Variable Rate Limited Obligation Refunding Revenue Bonds (The Detroit Edison Company Exempt Facilities Project), Series 2005DT (the "Strategic Fund Bonds") being issued under the Trust Indenture dated as of August 1, 2005 (the "Strategic Fund Indenture") between the Michigan Strategic Fund and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (the "Strategic Fund Bond Trustee"), and the Company has agreed to issue its General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds under the Indenture in order further to secure its obligations with respect to such Notes; and BONDS TO BE WHEREAS, for such purpose the Company desires by this 2005 SERIES Supplemental Indenture to create a new series of bonds, to be DT. designated "General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 2005 Series DT" in the aggregate principal amount of one hundred nineteen million one hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($119,175,000), to be authenticated and delivered pursuant to Section 8 of Article III of the Indenture; and FURTHER WHEREAS, the Original Indenture, by its terms, includes in the ASSURANCE. property subject to the lien thereof all of the estates and properties, real, personal and mixed, rights, privileges and franchises of every nature and kind and wheresoever situate, then or thereafter owned or possessed by or belonging to the Company or to which it was then or at any time thereafter might be entitled in law or in equity (saving and excepting, however, the property therein specifically excepted or released from the lien thereof), and the Company therein covenanted that it would, upon reasonable request, execute and deliver such further instruments as may be necessary or proper for the better assuring and confirming unto the Trustee all or any part of the trust estate, whether then or thereafter owned or acquired by the Company (saving and excepting, however, property specifically excepted or released from the lien thereof); and AUTHORIZATION WHEREAS, the Company in the exercise of the powers and authority OF conferred upon and reserved to it under and by virtue of the SUPPLEMENTAL provisions of the Indenture, and pursuant to resolutions of its INDENTURE. Board of Directors has duly resolved and determined to make, execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture in the form hereof for the purposes herein provided; and 12
WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid and legally binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been done, performed and fulfilled, and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects duly authorized; CONSIDERATION NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH: That The Detroit FOR Edison Company, in consideration of the premises and of the SUPPLEMENTAL covenants contained in the Indenture and of the sum of One INDENTURE. Dollar ($1.00) and other good and valuable consideration to it duly paid by the Trustee at or before the ensealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, hereby covenants and agrees to and with the Trustee and its successors in the trusts under the Original Indenture and in said indentures supplemental thereto as follows: PART I. CREATION OF THREE HUNDRED FORTY-THIRD SERIES OF BONDS, GENERAL AND REFUNDING MORTGAGE BONDS, 2005 SERIES DT TERMS OF SECTION 1. The Company hereby creates the three hundred BONDS OF forty-third series of bonds to be issued under and secured by 2005 SERIES the Original Indenture as amended to date and as further amended DT. by this Supplemental Indenture, to be designated, and to be distinguished from the bonds of all other series, by the title "General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 2005 Series DT" (elsewhere herein referred to as the "bonds of 2005 Series DT"). The aggregate principal amount of bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be limited to one hundred nineteen million one hundred seventy-five thousand dollars ($119,175,000), except as provided in Sections 7 and 13 of Article II of the Original Indenture with respect to exchanges and replacements of bonds. Subject to the release provisions set forth below, each bond of 2005 Series DT is to be irrevocably assigned to, and registered in the name of, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as trustee, or a successor trustee (said trustee or any successor trustee being hereinafter referred to as the "Note Indenture Trustee"), under the collateral trust indenture, dated as of June 30, 1993, as supplemented (the "Note Indenture"), between the Note Indenture Trustee and the Company, to secure payment of the Company's 2005 Series DT Variable Rate Senior Notes due 2029 (for purposes of this Part I, the "Notes"). The bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be issued as registered bonds without coupons in denominations of a multiple of $1,000. The bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be issued in the aggregate principal amount of $119,175,000, shall mature on August 1, 2029 (subject to earlier redemption or release) and shall bear interest at the rate of interest established for the Strategic Fund Bonds from time to time in accordance with the Strategic Fund Indenture, payable on such dates as interest shall be payable on the Strategic Fund Bonds, until the principal thereof shall have become due and payable and thereafter until the Company's obligation with respect to the payment of said principal shall have 13
been discharged as provided in the Indenture. The bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest as provided in the Indenture, but only to the extent and in the manner herein provided. The bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be payable, both as to principal and interest, at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City and State of New York, in any coin or currency of the United States of America which at the time of payment is legal tender for public and private debts. Except as provided herein, each bond of 2005 Series DT shall be dated the date of its authentication and interest shall be payable on the principal represented thereby from the next preceding date to which interest has been paid on bonds of 2005 Series DT, unless the bond is authenticated on a date to which interest has been paid, in which case interest shall be payable from the date of authentication, or unless the date of authentication is prior to the first date on which interest is payable on the Strategic Fund Bonds, in which case interest shall be payable from August 17, 2005. The bonds of 2005 Series DT in definitive form shall be, at the election of the Company, fully engraved or shall be lithographed or printed in authorized denominations as aforesaid and numbered 1 and upwards (with such further designation as may be appropriate and desirable to indicate by such designation the form, series and denomination of bonds of 2005 Series DT). Until bonds of 2005 Series DT in definitive form are ready for delivery, the Company may execute, and upon its request in writing the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in lieu thereof, bonds of 2005 Series DT in temporary form, as provided in Section 10 of Article II of the Indenture. Temporary bonds of 2005 Series DT, if any, may be printed and may be issued in authorized denominations in substantially the form of definitive bonds of 2005 Series DT, but without a recital of redemption prices and with such omissions, insertions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary bonds, all as may be determined by the Company. Interest on any bond of 2005 Series DT that is payable on any interest payment date and is punctually paid or duly provided for shall be paid to the person in whose name that bond, or any previous bond to the extent evidencing the same debt as that evidenced by that bond, is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which regular record date shall be the record date for the Strategic Fund Bonds with respect to such interest payment date. If the Company shall default in the payment of the interest due on any interest payment date on the principal represented by any bond of 2005 Series DT, such defaulted interest shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered holder of that bond on the relevant regular record date by virtue of his having been such holder, and such defaulted interest may be paid to the registered holder of that bond (or any bond or bonds of 2005 Series DT issued upon transfer or exchange thereof) on the date of payment of such defaulted interest or, at the election of the Company, to the person in whose name that bond (or any bond or bonds of 2005 Series DT issued upon transfer or exchange thereof) is registered on a subsequent record date established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Company to the holders of bonds of 2005 Series DT not less than ten (10) days preceding such subsequent record date, which subsequent record date shall be at least five (5) days prior to the payment date 14
of such defaulted interest. Bonds of 2005 Series DT shall not be assignable or transferable except as may be set forth under Section 405 of the Note Indenture or in the supplemental note indenture relating to the Notes, or, subject to compliance with applicable law, as may be involved in the course of the exercise of rights and remedies consequent upon an Event of Default under the Note Indenture. Any such transfer shall be made upon surrender thereof for cancellation at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City and State of New York, together with a written instrument of transfer (if so required by the Company or by the Trustee) in form approved by the Company duly executed by the holder or by its duly authorized attorney. Bonds of 2005 Series DT shall in the same manner be exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of bonds of 2005 Series DT upon the terms and conditions specified herein and in Section 7 of Article II of the Indenture. The Company waives its rights under Section 7 of Article II of the Indenture not to make exchanges or transfers of bonds of 2005 Series DT during any period of ten (10) days next preceding any redemption date for such bonds. Bonds of 2005 Series DT, in definitive and temporary form, may bear such legends as may be necessary to comply with any law or with any rules or regulations made pursuant thereto or as may be specified in the Note Indenture. Upon payment of the principal or premium, if any, or interest on the Notes, whether at maturity or prior to maturity by redemption or otherwise, or upon provision for the payment thereof having been made in accordance with Article V of the Note Indenture, bonds of 2005 Series DT in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Notes, shall, to the extent of such payment of principal, premium or interest, be deemed fully paid and the obligation of the Company thereunder to make such payment shall forthwith cease and be discharged, and, in the case of the payment of principal and premium, if any, such bonds shall be surrendered for cancellation or presented for appropriate notation to the Trustee. In the event the Company desires to provide for the payment of bonds of 2005 Series DT, in lieu of defeasing such bonds in accordance with the Indenture, it shall either redeem an equal principal amount of Strategic Fund Bonds or take such action as shall be required by Article VIII of the Strategic Fund Indenture to defease an equal principal amount of the Strategic Fund Bonds. Pursuant to Section 2.03(c) of the Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture to the Note Indenture dated August 1, 2005, such redemption or defeasance shall result in the discharge of the Company's obligation with respect to such Notes and the cancellation thereof which, in accordance with the preceding paragraph, shall result in the discharge of the Company's obligation with respect to the applicable bonds of 2005 Series DT and cancellation thereof. Any amount payable by the Company in respect of principal of bonds of 2005 Series DT, whether at maturity or prior to maturity by redemption or upon acceleration or otherwise, in a circumstance where there has not been a corresponding payment of principal of Strategic Fund Bonds shall be applied simultaneously to the redemption or defeasance of an equal principal amount of Strategic Fund Bonds in accordance with the Strategic Fund Indenture. In 15
the event the amount so paid is insufficient to provide for such redemption or defeasance, the Company shall pay such additional amount as shall be necessary to make up for the deficiency. RELEASE. SECTION 2. From and after the Release Date (as defined in the Note Indenture), the bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be deemed fully paid, satisfied and discharged and the obligation of the Company thereunder shall be terminated. On the Release Date, the bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be surrendered to and canceled by the Trustee. The Company covenants and agrees that, prior to the Release Date, it will not take any action that would cause the outstanding principal amount of the bonds of 2005 Series DT to be less than the then-outstanding principal amount of the Notes. REDEMPTION OF BONDS SECTION 3. Bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be redeemed on the OF 2005 SERIES DT. respective dates and in the respective principal amounts which correspond to the redemption dates for, and the principal amounts to be redeemed of, the Notes. In the event the Company elects to redeem any Notes prior to maturity in accordance with the provisions of the Note Indenture and the Insurance Agreement, the Company shall give the Trustee and the Insurer notice of redemption of bonds of 2005 Series DT on the same date as it gives notice of redemption of Notes to the Note Indenture Trustee. REDEMPTION OF BONDS SECTION 4. In the event of an Event of Default under the OF 2005 SERIES DT Note Indenture and the acceleration of all Notes, the bonds IN EVENT OF of 2005 Series DT shall be redeemable in whole upon receipt ACCELERATION OF by the Trustee of a written demand (hereinafter called a NOTES OR IN EVENT "Redemption Demand") from the Note Indenture Trustee stating OF REDEMPTION OF that there has occurred under the Note Indenture both an NOTES UPON Event of Default and a declaration of acceleration of ACCELERATION OF payment of principal, accrued interest and premium, if any, STRATEGIC FUND on the Notes, specifying the last date to which interest on BONDS. the Notes has been paid (such date being hereinafter referred to as the "Initial Interest Accrual Date") and demanding redemption of the bonds of said series. In addition, in the event of a required redemption of the Notes upon demand of the Insurer prior to the Release Date upon a declaration of acceleration of the payment of the Strategic Fund Bonds, the bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be redeemable in whole upon receipt by the Trustee of a Redemption Demand from the Note Indenture Trustee stating that such redemption of the Notes is required, stating that the redemption price was not paid when due and demanding redemption of the bonds of the 2005 Series DT. The Trustee shall, within five (5) days after receiving such Redemption Demand, mail a copy thereof to the Company marked to indicate the date of its receipt by the Trustee. Promptly upon receipt by the Company of such copy of a Redemption Demand, the Company shall fix a date on which it will redeem the bonds of said series so demanded to be redeemed (hereinafter called the "Demand Redemption Date"). Notice of the date fixed as the Demand Redemption Date shall be mailed by the Company to the Trustee at least ten (10) days prior to such Demand Redemption Date. The date to be fixed by the Company as and for the Demand Redemption Date may be any date up to and including the earlier of (x) the 60th day after receipt by the Trustee of the Redemption Demand or (y) the maturity date of such bonds first occurring following the 20th day after the receipt by the Trustee of the Redemption Demand; provided, however, that if the Trustee shall not have received such notice fixing the Demand Redemption Date on or before the 10th day preceding the earlier of such dates, the Demand Redemption Date 16
shall be deemed to be the earlier of such dates. The Trustee shall mail notice of the Demand Redemption Date (such notice being hereinafter called the "Demand Redemption Notice") to the Note Indenture Trustee not more than ten (10) nor less than five (5) days prior to the Demand Redemption Date. Each bond of 2005 Series DT shall be redeemed by the Company on the Demand Redemption Date therefor upon surrender thereof by the Note Indenture Trustee to the Trustee at a redemption price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon at the rate specified for such bond from the Initial Interest Accrual Date to the Demand Redemption Date plus an amount equal to the aggregate premium, if any, due and payable on such Demand Redemption Date on all Notes; provided, however, that in the event of a receipt by the Trustee of a notice that, pursuant to Section 602 of the Note Indenture, the Note Indenture Trustee has terminated proceedings to enforce any right under the Note Indenture, then any Redemption Demand shall thereby be rescinded by the Note Indenture Trustee, and no Demand Redemption Notice shall be given, or, if already given, shall be automatically annulled; but no such rescission or annulment shall extend to or affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon. Anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee is not authorized to take any action pursuant to a Redemption Demand and such Redemption Demand shall be of no force or effect, unless it is executed in the name of the Note Indenture Trustee by its President or one of its Vice Presidents. FORM SECTION 5. The bonds of 2005 Series DT and the form of OF BONDS OF Trustee's Certificate to be endorsed on such bonds shall be 2005 SERIES DT. substantially in the following forms, respectively: THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY GENERAL AND REFUNDING MORTGAGE BOND 2005 SERIES DT Notwithstanding any provisions hereof or in the Indenture, this bond is not assignable or transferable except as may be required to effect a transfer to any successor trustee under the Collateral Trust Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1993, as amended, and as further supplemented as of August 1, 2005, between The Detroit Edison Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Note Indenture Trustee, or, subject to compliance with applicable law, as may be involved in the course of the exercise of rights and remedies consequent upon an Event of Default under said Indenture. $119,175,000 No. R-1 THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY (hereinafter called the "Company"), a corporation of the State of Michigan, for value received, hereby promises to pay to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Note Indenture Trustee, or registered assigns, at the Company's office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City and State of New York, the principal sum of One Hundred Nineteen Million One Hundred Seventy-five Thousand Dollars ($119,175,000) in lawful money of the United States of America on August 1, 2029 (subject to earlier redemption or release) and interest thereon at the rate 17
of interest established for the Strategic Fund Bonds from time to time in accordance with the Strategic Fund Indenture, in like lawful money, from August 17, 2005, and after the first payment of interest on bonds of this Series has been made or otherwise provided for, from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or otherwise provided for, on such dates as interest shall be payable on the Strategic Fund Bonds, until the Company's obligation with respect to payment of said principal shall have been discharged, all as provided, to the extent and in the manner specified in the Indenture hereinafter mentioned and in the supplemental indenture pursuant to which this bond has been issued. Under a Collateral Trust Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1993, as amended and as further supplemented as of August 1, 2005 (hereinafter called the "Note Indenture"), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (hereinafter called the "Note Indenture Trustee"), the Company has issued its 2005 Series DT Variable Rate Senior Notes due 2029 (the "Notes"). This bond was originally issued to the Note Indenture Trustee so as to secure the payment of the Notes. Payments of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, the Notes shall constitute like payments on this bond as further provided herein and in the supplemental indenture pursuant to which this bond has been issued. The Notes were issued to XL Capital Assurance Inc., an insurance company incorporated under the laws of the State of New York (the "Insurer"), to secure the Company's obligations to the Insurer under the Insurance Agreement dated August 1, 2005 (the "Insurance Agreement") among the Company, the Insurer and the Strategic Fund Bond Trustee relating to Financial Guaranty Insurance Policy No. CA02313A issued by the Insurer with respect to the Michigan Strategic Fund Variable Rate Limited Obligation Refunding Revenue Bonds (The Detroit Edison Company Exempt Facilities Project), Series 2005DT (the "Strategic Fund Bonds") which are issued under the Trust Indenture dated as of August 1, 2005 (the "Strategic Fund Indenture") between the Michigan Strategic Fund and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (the "Strategic Fund Bond Trustee"). This bond is one of an authorized issue of bonds of the Company, unlimited as to amount except as provided in the Indenture hereinafter mentioned or any indentures supplemental thereto, and is one of a series of General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds known as 2005 Series DT, limited to an aggregate principal amount of $119,175,000, except as otherwise provided in the Indenture hereinafter mentioned. This bond and all other bonds of said series are issued and to be issued under, and are all equally and ratably secured (except insofar as any sinking, amortization, improvement or analogous fund, established in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture hereinafter mentioned, may afford additional security for the bonds of any particular series and except as provided in Section 3 of Article VI of said Indenture) by an Indenture, dated as of October 1, 1924, duly executed by the Company to J. P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor in interest to Bank One, National Association, as Trustee, to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto (including the Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 1, 2005) reference is hereby made for a description of the properties and franchises mortgaged and conveyed, the nature and extent of the security, the terms and conditions upon which the bonds are issued and under which 18
additional bonds may be issued, and the rights of the holders of the bonds and of the Trustee in respect of such security (which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, including the Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 1, 2005, are hereinafter collectively called the "Indenture"). As provided in the Indenture, said bonds may be for various principal sums and are issuable in series, which may mature at different times, may bear interest at different rates and may otherwise vary as in said Indenture provided. With the consent of the Company and to the extent permitted by and as provided in the Indenture, the rights and obligations of the Company and of the holders of the bonds and the terms and provisions of the Indenture, or of any indenture supplemental thereto, may be modified or altered in certain respects by affirmative vote of at least eighty-five percent (85%) in amount of the bonds then outstanding, and, if the rights of one or more, but less than all, series of bonds then outstanding are to be affected by the action proposed to be taken, then also by affirmative vote of at least eighty-five percent (85%) in amount of the series of bonds so to be affected (excluding in every instance bonds disqualified from voting by reason of the Company's interest therein as specified in the Indenture); provided, however, that, without the consent of the holder hereof, no such modification or alteration shall, among other things, affect the terms of payment of the principal of or the interest on this bond, which in those respects is unconditional. This bond is redeemable prior to the Release Date upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture, including provision for redemption upon demand of the Note Indenture Trustee following the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Note Indenture and the acceleration of the principal of the Notes and including provision for redemption upon demand of the Note Indenture Trustee in the event of a required redemption of the Notes following a declaration of acceleration of the Strategic Fund Bonds and payment by the Insurer of the accelerated principal of the Strategic Fund Bonds, such demand stating that such redemption of the Notes is required, stating that the redemption price thereof was not paid when due and demanding redemption of this bond. Under the Indenture, funds may be deposited with the Trustee (which shall have become available for payment), in advance of the redemption date of any of the bonds of 2005 Series DT (or portions thereof), in trust for the redemption of such bonds (or portions thereof) and the interest due or to become due thereon, and thereupon all obligations of the Company in respect of such bonds (or portions thereof) so to be redeemed and such interest shall cease and be discharged, and the holders thereof shall thereafter be restricted exclusively to such funds for any and all claims of whatsoever nature on their part under the Indenture or with respect to such bonds (or portions thereof) and interest. In the event the Company desires to provide for the payment of bonds of 2005 Series DT, in lieu of defeasing such bonds in accordance with the Indenture, the Company shall either redeem an equal principal amount of Strategic Fund Bonds or take such action as shall be required by the Strategic Fund Indenture to defease an equal principal amount of Strategic Fund Bonds. In case an event of default, as defined in the Indenture, shall occur, the principal of all the bonds issued thereunder may become or be declared due and payable, in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture. 19
Any amount payable by the Company in respect of principal of bonds of 2005 Series DT, whether at maturity or prior to maturity by redemption or otherwise, in a circumstance where there has not been a corresponding payment of principal of Strategic Fund Bonds shall be applied simultaneously to the redemption or defeasance of an equal principal amount of Strategic Fund Bonds in accordance with the Strategic Fund Indenture. Upon payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, the Notes, whether at maturity or prior to maturity by redemption or otherwise or upon provision for the payment thereof having been made in accordance with Article V of the Note Indenture, bonds of 2005 Series DT in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Notes, and having both a corresponding maturity date and interest rate shall, to the extent of such payment of principal, premium or interest, be deemed fully paid and the obligation of the Company thereunder to make such payment shall forthwith cease and be discharged, and, in the case of the payment of principal and premium, if any, such bonds of said series shall be surrendered for cancellation or presented for appropriate notation to the Trustee. This bond is not assignable or transferable except as set forth under Section 405 of the Note Indenture or in the supplemental indenture relating to the Notes, or, subject to compliance with applicable law, as may be involved in the course of the exercise of rights and remedies consequent upon an Event of Default under the Note Indenture. Any such transfer shall be made by the registered holder hereof, in person or by his attorney duly authorized in writing, on the books of the Company kept at its office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City and State of New York, upon surrender and cancellation of this bond, and thereupon, a new registered bond of the same series of authorized denominations for a like aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, and this bond with others in like form may in like manner be exchanged for one or more new bonds of the same series of other authorized denominations, but of the same aggregate principal amount, all as provided and upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture, and upon payment, in any event, of the charges prescribed in the Indenture. From and after the Release Date (as defined in the Note Indenture), the bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be deemed fully paid, satisfied and discharged and the obligation of the Company thereunder shall be terminated. On the Release Date, the bonds of 2005 Series DT shall be surrendered to and cancelled by the Trustee. The Company covenants and agrees that, prior to the Release Date, it will not take any action that would cause the outstanding principal amount of the bond of 2005 Series DT to be less than the then outstanding principal amount of the Notes. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on this bond, or for any claim based hereon or otherwise in respect hereof or of the Indenture, or of any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, or against any past, present or future stockholder, director or officer, as such, of the Company, or of any predecessor or successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any such predecessor or successor corporation, whether for amounts unpaid on stock subscriptions or 20
by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise howsoever; all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released by every holder or owner hereof, as more fully provided in the Indenture. This bond shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, the Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, shall have signed the form of certificate endorsed hereon. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY has caused this instrument to be executed by an authorized officer, with his manual or facsimile signatures, and its corporate seal, or a facsimile thereof, to be impressed or imprinted hereon and the same to be attested by its Corporate Secretary or Assistant Corporate Secretary by manual or facsimile signature. Dated: _____________ THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY By: AUTHORIZED OFFICER [SEAL] Attest: AUTHORIZED OFFICER [FORM OF TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE] FORM OF TRUSTEE'S This bond is one of the bonds, of the series designated CERTIFICATE. therein, described in the within-mentioned Indenture. J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as Trustee By __________________ Authorized Officer 21
PART II. RECORDING AND FILING DATA RECORDING AND The Original Indenture and indentures supplemental thereto FILING OF have been recorded and/or filed and Certificates of ORIGINAL Provision for Payment have been recorded as hereinafter set INDENTURE. forth. The Original Indenture has been recorded as a real estate mortgage and filed as a chattel Mortgage in the offices of the respective Registers of Deeds of certain counties in the State of Michigan as set forth in the Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 1, 1947, has been recorded as a real estate mortgage in the office of the Register of Deeds of Genesee County, Michigan as set forth in the Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 1, 1974, has been filed in the Office of the Secretary of State of Michigan on November 16, 1951 and has been filed and recorded in the office of the Interstate Commerce Commission on December 8, 1969. RECORDING AND Pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Original FILING OF Indenture, indentures supplemental thereto heretofore SUPPLEMENTAL entered into have been Recorded as a real estate mortgage INDENTURES. and/or filed as a chattel mortgage or as a financing statement in the offices of the respective Registers of Deeds of certain counties in the State of Michigan, the Office of the Secretary of State of Michigan and the Office of the Interstate Commerce Commission, as set forth in supplemental indentures as follows: 22
23
24
25
- ----------- (a) See Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 1, 1970 for Interstate Commerce Commission filing and recordation information. (b) See Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 1, 1953 for Secretary of State of Michigan filing information. (c) See Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 1, 1974 for County of Genesee, Michigan recording and filing information. RECORDING OF All the bonds of Series A which were issued under the CERTIFICATES OF Original Indenture dated as of October 1, 1924, and of PROVISION FOR Series B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, PAYMENT. W, Y, Z, AA, BB, CC, DDP Nos. 1-9, FFR Nos. 1-14, GGP Nos. 1-22, HH, IIP Nos. 1-22, JJP Nos. 1-8, KKP Nos. 1-9, LLP Nos. 1-15, NNP Nos. 1-21, OOP Nos. 1-18, QQP Nos. 1-17, TTP Nos. 1-15, UU, 1980 Series A, 1980 Series CP Nos. 1-25, 1980 Series DP Nos. 1-11, 1981 Series AP Nos. 1-16, 1984 Series AP, 1984 Series BP, 1985 Series A, 1985 Series B, 1987 Series A, PP, RR, EE, MMP, MMP No. 2, 1989 Series A, 1990 Series A, 1993 Series D, 1993 Series G and 1993 Series H which were issued under Supplemental Indentures dated as of, respectively, June 1, 1925, August 1, 1927, February 1, 1931, October 1, 1932, September 25, 1935, September 1, 1936, December 1, 1940, September 1, 1947, November 15, 1951, January 15, 1953, May 1, 1953, March 15, 1954, May 15, 1955, August 15, 1957, December 15, 1970, November 15, 1971, January 15, 1973, May 1, 1974, October 1, 1974, January 15, 1975, November 1, 1975, February 1, 1976, June 15, 1976, July 15, 1976, October 1, 1977, March 1, 1977, July 1, 1979, March 1, 1977, March 1, 1977, March 1, 1977, September 1, 1979, July 1, 1977, July 1, 1979, September 15, 1979, October 1, 1977, June 1, 1978, October 1, 1977, July 1, 1979, January 1, 1980, August 15, 1980, November 1, 1981, October 1, 1984 May 1, 1985, May 15, 1985, January 31, 1987, June 1, 1978, October 15, 1978, December 15, 1975, February 15, 1977, September 1, 1979, June 15, 1989, February 15, 1990, March 15, 1993, April 26, 1992 and September 15, 1992 have matured or have been called for redemption and funds sufficient for such payment or redemption have been irrevocably deposited with the Trustee for that purpose; and Certificates of Provision for Payment have been recorded in the offices of the respective Registers of Deeds of certain counties in the State of Michigan, with respect to all bonds of Series A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, K, L, M, O, W, BB, CC, DDP Nos. 1 and 2, FFR Nos. 1-3, GGP Nos. 1 and 2, IIP No. 1, JJP No. 1, KKP No. 1, LLP No. 1 and GGP No. 8. 26
PART III. THE TRUSTEE. TERMS AND The Trustee hereby accepts the trust hereby declared and CONDITIONS OF provided, and agrees to perform the same upon the terms and ACCEPTANCE OF conditions in the Original Indenture, as amended to date and TRUST BY TRUSTEE. as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, and in this Supplemental Indenture set forth, and upon the following terms and conditions: The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for and in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or the due execution hereof by the Company or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made by the Company solely. PART IV. MISCELLANEOUS. CONFIRMATION OF Except to the extent specifically provided therein, no SECTION 318(c) OF provision of this Supplemental Indenture or any future TRUST INDENTURE ACT.supplemental indenture is intended to modify, and the parties do hereby adopt and confirm, the provisions of Section 318(c) of the Trust Indenture Act which amend and supersede provisions of the Indenture in effect prior to November 15, 1990. EXECUTION IN THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE MAY BE SIMULTANEOUSLY EXECUTED COUNTERPARTS. IN ANY NUMBER OF COUNTERPARTS, EACH OF WHICH WHEN SO EXECUTED SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE AN ORIGINAL; BUT SUCH COUNTERPARTS SHALL TOGETHER CONSTITUTE BUT ONE AND THE SAME INSTRUMENT. TESTIMONIUM. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY AND J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION HAVE CAUSED THESE PRESENTS TO BE SIGNED IN THEIR RESPECTIVE CORPORATE NAMES BY THEIR RESPECTIVE CHAIRMEN OF THE BOARD, PRESIDENTS, VICE PRESIDENTS, ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENTS, TREASURERS OR ASSISTANT TREASURERS AND IMPRESSED WITH THEIR RESPECTIVE CORPORATE SEALS, ATTESTED BY THEIR RESPECTIVE SECRETARIES OR ASSISTANT SECRETARIES, ALL AS OF THE DAY AND YEAR FIRST ABOVE WRITTEN. 27
EXECUTION BY THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY, COMPANY. By: /s/ Paul A. Stadnikia __________________________________ (Corporate Seal) Name: Paul A. Stadnikia Title: Assistant Treasurer Attest: By: /s/ Sandra K. Ennis _________________________________ Name: Sandra K. Ennis Title: Corporate Secretary Signed, sealed and delivered by THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY, in the presence of /s/ Anthony G. Morrow _____________________________ Name: Anthony G. Morrow /s/ Stephanie V. Washio _____________________________ Name: Stephanie V. Washio 28
STATE OF MICHIGAN ) ) SS COUNTY OF WAYNE ) ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF On this 1st day of August 2005, before me, the subscriber, a EXECUTION BY Notary Public within and for the County of Macomb, in the COMPANY. State of Michigan, acting in the County of Wayne, personally appeared Paul A. Stadnikia, to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did say that he does business at 2000 2nd Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226 and is the Assistant Treasurer of THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY, one of the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instrument; that he knows the corporate seal of the said corporation and that the seal affixed to said instrument is the corporate seal of said corporation; and that said instrument was signed and sealed in behalf of said corporation by authority of its Board of Directors and that he subscribed his name thereto by like authority; and said Paul A. Stadnikia acknowledged said instrument to be the free act and deed of said corporation. (Notarial Seal) /s/ Nancy Jo Wilk-Stasyk ____________________________________________ Nancy Jo Wilk-Stasyk, Notary Public County of Macomb, State of Michigan My Commission Expires: March 19, 2011 Acting in County of Wayne 29
EXECUTION BY J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE. NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By: /s/ J. Michael Banas __________________________________ (Corporate Seal) Name: J. Michael Banas Title: Vice President Attest: By: /s/ Alexis M. Johnson _________________________________ Name: Alexis M. Johnson Title: Authorized Officer Signed, sealed and delivered by J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, in the presence of /s/ Patrick F. McGow _______________________ Name: Patrick F. McGow /s/ Diane E. Cranmer _______________________ Name: Diane E. Cranmer 30
STATE OF MICHIGAN ) ) SS COUNTY OF WAYNE ) ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF On this 16th day of August 2005, before me, the subscriber, EXECUTION BY a Notary Public within and for the County of Oakland, TRUSTEE. in the State of Michigan, acting in the County of Wayne, personally appeared J. Michael Banas, to me personally known, who, being by me duly sworn, did say that his business office is located at 611 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226, and he is Vice President of J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, one of the corporations described in and which executed the foregoing instrument; that he knows the corporate seal of the said corporation and that the seal affixed to said instrument is the corporate seal of said corporation; and that said instrument was signed and sealed in behalf of said corporation by authority of its Board of Directors and that he subscribed his name thereto by like authority; and said J. Michael Banas acknowledged said instrument to be the free act and deed of said corporation. (Notarial Seal) Glenda P. Evans ------------------------------------------ , Notary Public County of Oakland, State of Michigan My Commission Expires: March 25, 2008 Acting in County of Wayne 31
STATE OF MICHIGAN ) ) SS COUNTY OF WAYNE ) AFFIDAVIT AS TO Paul A. Stadnikia, being duly sworn, says: that he is the CONSIDERATION Assistant Treasurer of THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY, the AND GOOD FAITH. Mortgagor named in the foregoing instrument, and that he has knowledge of the facts in regard to the making of said instrument and of the consideration therefor; that the consideration for said instrument was and is actual and adequate, and that the same was given in good faith for the purposes in such instrument set forth. /s/ Paul A. Stadnikia ----------------------------------- Name: Paul A. Stadnikia Title: Assistant Treasurer The Detroit Edison Company Sworn to before me this 1st day of August 2005 (Notarial Seal) /s/ Nancy Jo Wilk-Stasyk ----------------------------------- Nancy Jo Wilk-Stasyk, Notary Public County of Macomb, State of Michigan My Commission Expires: March 19, 2011 Acting in County of Wayne 32
This instrument was drafted by: Anthony G. Morrow, Esq. When recorded return to: Stephanie V. Washio 2000 2nd Avenue 688 WCB Detroit, Michigan 48226 33

EXHIBIT 10.1 Execution Copy ================================================================================ LOAN AGREEMENT Between MICHIGAN STRATEGIC FUND And THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY $119,175,000 MICHIGAN STRATEGIC FUND VARIABLE RATE LIMITED OBLIGATION REFUNDING REVENUE BONDS (THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY EXEMPT FACILITIES PROJECT), SERIES 2005DT ------------------------------ Dated as of August 1, 2005 ================================================================================
TABLE OF CONTENTS -i-
Section 7.1. Indemnification of Issuer and Indemnified Persons........................... 12 Section 7.2. Filing and Recording........................................................ 14 Section 7.3. Removal of Liens............................................................ 14 Section 7.4. Federal Income Tax Exemption................................................ 14 Section 7.5.Company Representations and Covenants ....................................... 17 Section 7.6. Maintenance of Corporate Existence.......................................... 19 Section 7.7. Financial Information....................................................... 19 Section 7.8. Agreement of Issuer Not to Assign or Pledge................................. 19 Section 7.9. Reference to Bonds Ineffective After Bonds Paid............................. 19 Section 7.10. Assignments or Lease of Project............................................ 19 Section 7.11. Amendment of Agreement or Indenture........................................ 20 Section 7.12. Indemnification of the Trustee............................................. 20 ARTICLE VIII ASSIGNMENT.......................................................................... 20 Section 8.1. Assignment by the Company................................................... 20 Section 8.2. Issuer's Rights of Assignment............................................... 21 ARTICLE IX EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES........................................................ 21 Section 9.1. Trustee and Remedies........................................................ 21 Section 9.2. Annulment of Acceleration................................................... 22 Section 9.3. Agreement to Pay Attorneys' Fees and Expenses............................... 22 Section 9.4. General Enforcement Provisions.............................................. 23 ARTICLE X GENERAL PROVISIONS..................................................................... 23 Section 10.1. Force Majeure.............................................................. 23 Section 10.2. Third Party Beneficiaries.................................................. 23 Section 10.3. Notices; Communications.................................................... 24 Section 10.4. Amendments, Governing Law, Etc............................................. 24 Section 10.5. Severability............................................................... 25 Section 10.6. Term of Agreement.......................................................... 25 Section 10.7. Company's Approval of Bond Documents....................................... 25 Section 10.8. Counterparts............................................................... 25 Section 10.9. Captions................................................................... 25 Section 10.10. Payments on Non-Business Days............................................. 25
-ii-
Execution Copy LOAN AGREEMENT between MICHIGAN STRATEGIC FUND and THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY THIS LOAN AGREEMENT, dated as of August 1, 2005, is made and entered into between MICHIGAN STRATEGIC FUND, a public body corporate and politic of the State of Michigan (the "Issuer"), and THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY, a Michigan corporation (the "Company"). R E C I T A L S: The Issuer is authorized and empowered under the Michigan Strategic Fund Act, which is Act No. 270, Public Acts of Michigan, 1984, as amended (the "Act"), to issue bonds for the purposes of paying all or part of the cost of construction and installation of certain pollution control facilities of the Company or to refund bonds permitted to be refunded under the Act, and to enter into loan agreements for the purpose of providing funds sufficient to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, such bonds; and The Issuer proposes to issue and sell bonds to refund certain bonds issued by the Issuer, for the benefit of the Company, all in accordance with the Bond Resolution adopted by the governing body of the Issuer on July 21, 2005. NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby and in consideration of the premises, DO HEREBY AGREE as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS Section 1.1. Definitions. Terms used in this Agreement which are defined in the Indenture and not defined in this Agreement have the same meanings which are assigned to such terms in the Indenture (as defined below). The following terms have the meanings assigned to them below whenever they are used in this Agreement. Except where the context otherwise requires, words imparting the singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa. Reference to any Bond Document means that Bond Document as amended or supplemented from time to time. Reference to any party in a Bond Document means that party and its successors and assigns.
"Act" means the Michigan Strategic Fund Act, Act No. 270, Public Acts of Michigan, 1984, as amended. "Agreement" means this Loan Agreement. "Costs of Issuance" means any items of expense directly or indirectly payable or reimbursable by the Company and directly or indirectly attributable to the authorization, sale and issuance of the Bonds, including, but not limited to, printing costs; costs of preparation and reproduction of documents; initial fees and charges of the Trustee, the Registrar and the Paying Agent; legal fees and charges, if any; underwriting discount or fees paid to the Underwriter in connection with the initial offering and sale of the Bonds; the Issuer fees and direct out-of-pocket expenses incurred in issuing and paying the Bonds and loaning the proceeds of the Bonds to the Company; municipal bond insurance premiums; fees and disbursements of Bond Counsel and other attorneys' fees; and costs of credit ratings. "Event of Default" means an Event of Default as defined in Section 9.1(b) of this Agreement. "Force Majeure" means acts of God, strikes, lockouts or other industrial disturbances, acts of the public enemy, orders of any kind of the government of the United States of America, or of any state thereof, or any civil or military authority, insurrections, riots, epidemics, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, hurricanes, tornadoes, storms, floods, washouts, droughts, arrests, restraining of government and people, civil disturbances, explosions, nuclear accidents, wars, breakage or accidents to machinery, transmission pipes or canals, partial or entire failure of utilities or energy suppliers, shortages of labor, material, supplies or transportation, or any other cause not reasonably within the control of the party claiming the inability to perform. "Indemnified Persons" means the Issuer or any of its officers, members, employees, agents, and any other Person acting for or on behalf of the Issuer. "Indenture" means that certain Trust Indenture, dated as of the date of this Agreement, between the Issuer and the Trustee, pursuant to which the Bonds are issued. "Loan Payments" means the payments to be made by the Company pursuant to Section 4.4 of this Agreement. "Organizational Documents" means as to the Company, its Articles of Incorporation as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Michigan, and its Bylaws in effect on the date of this Agreement. "State" means the State of Michigan. Section 1.2. Interpretations. The table of contents and article and section headings of this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect its interpretation in any respect. - 2 -
ARTICLE II REFUNDING OF PRIOR BONDS Section 2.1. Refunding Fund. The Issuer has authorized the issuance and sale of the Bonds in the aggregate principal amount of $119,175,000. Upon issuance and delivery thereof, the proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited with the Trustee in the Refunding Fund and the Bond Fund in accordance with the Indenture. The obligations of the Issuer and the Company under this Agreement are expressly conditioned upon delivery of the Bonds and receipt of the proceeds thereof. Section 2.2. Refunding of Prior Bonds. The Company agrees to pay all Costs of Issuance and all costs of refunding the Prior Bonds which are not, or cannot be, paid or reimbursed from the proceeds of the Bonds, including accrued interest and redemption premiums, if any, and to make such payments in compliance with its covenants in Section 7.4 of this Agreement. The Company agrees that it shall not be entitled to reimbursement from the Issuer or from any Owners for payment of the Costs of Issuance or costs of refunding the Prior Bonds, nor shall it be entitled, as a consequence of such unreimbursed payments, to any abatement, postponement or diminution of the amounts payable under this Agreement. Section 2.3 Investment of Bond Fund; Non-Arbitrage Covenant. Any moneys held as part of the Bond Fund or Refunding Bond shall be invested, reinvested or applied by the Trustee in accordance with and subject to the conditions of Article VII of the Indenture. The Company and the Issuer shall make no use of the proceeds of the Bonds, or any funds which may be deemed to be proceeds of the Bonds pursuant to Section 148 of the Code and the applicable regulations thereunder, which would cause the Bonds to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of such Section and such regulations, and the Company shall comply with the requirements of such Section and such regulations while any Bonds remain Outstanding. In order to insure that interest on the Bonds is not and will not become subject to Federal income taxes as a result of failure of the Bonds to satisfy Section 103(b) of the Code, the Company covenants with the Issuer and the Trustee that it will, on or before the date of issuance of the Bonds, supply to the Issuer and the Trustee all information required under Internal Revenue Service Form 8038, Information Return for Private Activity Bond Issues. ARTICLE III ISSUANCE OF THE BONDS; LOAN; DISPOSITION OF LOAN PROCEEDS Section 3.1. Issuance of the Bonds. The Issuer agrees that immediately following the delivery of this Agreement it will execute and deliver the Indenture and issue, sell and deliver the Bonds to the Underwriter. The Bonds shall be limited obligations of the Issuer and shall be - 3 -
payable by the Issuer solely out of the Revenues derived from or in connection with the Bond Documents. The Bonds shall never be payable out of any other funds of the Issuer or the State. The Company agrees to pay, promptly following demand therefor, all Costs of Issuance paid, incurred or charged by the Issuer, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Remarketing Agent, the Auction Agent and the Registrar, including without limitation all fees required to be paid to the Issuer by the Company, and all out-of-pocket expenses and costs of issuance reasonably incurred by the Issuer, the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Remarketing Agent, the Auction Agent and the Registrar in connection with the issuance and remarketing of the Bonds. Section 3.2. Loan. Concurrently with the delivery of the Bonds, the Issuer will, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, lend to the Company, by deposit of the proceeds thereof with the Trustee in the Refunding Fund in accordance with the Indenture, an amount equal to the proceeds of the Bonds for application as provided in the Indenture to refund the Prior Bonds. Interest and redemption premiums, if any, due on the Prior Bonds and Costs of Issuance with respect to the Bonds shall be paid with money provided by the Company, which may include investment income on amounts on deposit in the Refunding Fund as provided in Section 6.01 of the Indenture. Section 3.3 Procurement of Municipal Bond Insurance Policy. The Company, at no cost to the Issuer, shall procure the Municipal Bond Insurance Policy so that it is in full force and effect concurrent with the delivery of the Bonds by the Issuer to secure the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds. ARTICLE IV COMPANY OBLIGATIONS, LOAN PAYMENTS AND OTHER PECUNIARY OBLIGATIONS Section 4.1. Company Approval of Issuance of Bonds. Simultaneously with the authorization of this Agreement by the governing body of the Issuer, the governing body has adopted the Bond Resolution and authorized the execution of the Indenture. The Company hereby approves the Bond Resolution and the Indenture. It is hereby agreed that the foregoing approval of the Bond Resolution and the Indenture constitutes the acknowledgement and agreement of the Company that the Bonds, when issued, sold and delivered as provided in the Bond Resolution and the Indenture, will be issued in accordance with and in compliance with this Agreement, notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement or any other contract or agreement to the contrary. Any Owner is entitled to rely fully and unconditionally on the foregoing approval. Notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement or any other contract or agreement to the contrary, the Company's approval of the Bond Resolution and the Indenture shall be the Company's agreement that all covenants and provisions in this Agreement and the Indenture affecting the Company shall, upon the delivery of the Bonds and the Indenture, become unconditional, valid and binding covenants and obligations of the Company so long as the Bonds and the interest thereon are outstanding and unpaid. Particularly, the obligation of the - 4 -
Company to pay, promptly when due, all Loan Payments specified in this Agreement and the Indenture shall be absolute and unconditional, and said obligation may be enforced as provided in this Agreement and the Indenture. Section 4.2. Refunding of Bonds. After the issuance of any Bonds, the Issuer shall not refund any of the Bonds or change or modify the Bonds in any way, except as provided for in the Indenture, without the prior written approval of an Authorized Company Representative; nor shall the Issuer redeem any Bonds prior to the Maturity Date except upon the request of an Authorized Company Representative, unless such redemption is required by the Indenture. Section 4.3. Redemption of Bonds. The Issuer, upon the written request of the Company (and provided that the affected Bonds are subject to redemption prior to maturity at the option of the Issuer, or the Company, and provided that such request is received in sufficient time prior to the date upon which such redemption is proposed), promptly shall take or cause to be taken all action that may be necessary under the applicable redemption provisions to effect such redemption prior to maturity, to the full extent of funds either made available for such purpose by the Company or already on deposit in the Bond Fund and available for such purpose. The redemption of any Outstanding Bonds prior to maturity at any time shall not relieve the Company of its absolute and unconditional obligation to pay each remaining Loan Payment, with respect to any Outstanding Bonds, as specified in the Indenture. If a redemption of Bonds is required pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, the Company agrees as provided herein to promptly make Loan Payments sufficient to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds due on such redemption date. Section 4.4. Loan Payments. (a) To repay the loan, the Company hereby covenants and agrees to make the Loan Payments, as hereinafter provided in subsections (b), (c), (f) and (h) of this Section, to the Trustee, or the Paying Agent for the account of the Trustee, on behalf of the Issuer in accordance with this Agreement. (b) The Company shall make Loan Payments, subject to the limitations of subsection (e) below of this Agreement, in immediately available funds directly to the Trustee or the Paying Agent for deposit in the Bond Fund on or before each day on which any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Bonds shall become due (whether at maturity or upon redemption or acceleration or otherwise) in an amount which, together with other money held by the Trustee under the Indenture and available therefor, will enable the Trustee to make such payment in full when due in accordance with the Indenture. (c) In the event the Company should fail to make any of the Loan Payments required in this Section, the Loan Payment so in default shall continue as an obligation of the Company until the amount in default shall have been fully paid, and the Company agrees to pay the same with interest thereon at the rate then borne by the Bonds, to the extent permitted by law and subject to the provisions of subsection (e) below, from the date when such payment was due as provided in the Indenture. (d) If, subsequent to or on a date on which the Company is obligated to pay the Loan Payments (subject to provisions of Article VIII of the Indenture), losses (net of gains) shall be - 5 -
incurred in respect of any investments, or any other event has occurred causing the money in the Bond Fund, together with any other money then held by the Trustee and available for the purpose of the Bond Fund, to be less than the amount sufficient at the time of such occurrence or other event to pay, in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, all amounts due and payable or to become due and payable, the Trustee shall notify the Company of such fact and thereafter the Company, as and when required for purposes of such Bond Fund, shall pay in immediately available funds to the Trustee for deposit in the Bond Fund the amount of any such reduction below such sufficient amount. (e) Notwithstanding any provision of the Bond Documents to the contrary, in no event (including without limitation the acceleration of maturity of the Bonds or the redemption of the Bonds pursuant to the Bond Documents) shall the amount of interest contracted for, charged, received, reserved or taken in connection with the loan made hereunder (together with any other costs or considerations that constitute interest under applicable law which are contracted for, charged, received, reserved or taken pursuant to the Bond Documents) (collectively, "Interest") exceed the amount of interest which could have been contracted for, charged, reserved, received or taken at the Maximum Interest Rate. This provision shall be held to operate to deny the Owners the right, in any event, to collect usury. (f) The Company further agrees that in the event payment of the principal of and the interest on the Bonds is accelerated upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture, all amounts payable under Section 4.4(b) for the remainder of the term hereof (other than interest not yet due) shall be immediately due and payable. (g) Any amount held in the Bond Fund on any payment date specified in subsection (b) above shall be credited against the Loan Payments required to be made by the Company on such date. (h) The Company shall be obligated to prepay in whole or in part the amounts payable hereunder upon a Determination of Taxability (as defined below) giving rise to a mandatory redemption of the Bonds pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Indenture, by paying an amount equal to, when added to other funds on deposit in the Bond Fund, the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds to be redeemed pursuant to the Indenture plus accrued interest to the redemption date. (i) The Company shall cause a mandatory redemption to occur within 180 days after a Determination of Taxability (as defined below) shall have occurred. A "Determination of Taxability" shall be deemed to have occurred if, as a result of the failure of the Company to observe any covenant, agreement or representation in this Agreement, an opinion of Bond Counsel obtained by the Company, or a final decree or judgment of any federal court or a final action of the Internal Revenue Service determines that interest paid or payable on any Bond is or will be includible in the gross income of an Owner of the Bonds for federal income tax purposes under the Code (other than an Owner who is a "substantial user" or "related person" within the meaning of Section 103(b)(13) of the 1954 Code). However, no such decree or action will be considered final for this purpose unless the Company has been given written notice of the same, either directly or in the name of any Owner of a Bond, and, if it so desires and is legally allowed, - 6 -
has been afforded the opportunity to contest the same, either directly or in the name of any Owner of a Bond, and until conclusion of any appellate review, if sought. If the Trustee receives written notice from the Issuer or any Owner of a Bond stating (a) that the Issuer or the Owner has been notified in writing by the Internal Revenue Service that it proposes to include the interest on any Bond in the gross income of such Owner for the reasons described therein or any other proceeding has been instituted against the Issuer or such Owner which may lead to a final decree or action as described herein, and (b) that the Issuer or such Owner will afford the Company the opportunity to contest the same, either directly or in the name of the Issuer or the Owner, until a conclusion of any appellate review, if sought, then the Trustee shall promptly give notice thereof to the Company, the Issuer, the Provider, if any, and the Owner of each Bond then Outstanding. If a final decree or action as described above thereafter occurs and the Trustee has received written notice thereof, the Trustee promptly shall request prepayment from the Company of the amounts payable hereunder and give notice of the redemption of the Bonds at the earliest practical date, but not later than the date specified in this Article, and in the manner provided by Section 4.05 of the Indenture. At the time of any such prepayment of the amounts payable hereunder pursuant to this Section, the prepayment amount shall be applied, together with other available moneys in the Bond Fund, to the redemption of the Bonds on the date specified in the notice as provided in the Indenture, whether or not such date is an Interest Payment Date, to the Trustee's fees and expenses under the Indenture accrued to such redemption of the Bonds, and to all sums due to the Issuer under this Agreement. Notwithstanding any provision herein or in the Insurance Agreement to the contrary, no payments of principal of or interest on the Bonds shall be due or paid by the Company hereunder to the extent that such amounts have been paid by or on behalf of the Municipal Bond Insurer pursuant to the Municipal Bond Insurance Policy and applied by the Trustee for such payment in accordance with the Indenture and the Company has provided sufficient funds for reimbursement to the Municipal Bond Insurer under the Insurance Agreement for such payment. Whenever any notice of prepayment of the amounts payable hereunder pursuant to this Article IV has been given, which includes a notice for redemption of the Bonds pursuant to the Indenture, all amounts payable under the first paragraph of this Section 4.4(i) shall become due and payable on the date fixed for redemption of such Bonds. Section 4.5. Purchase Price Payments of the Company. (a) In addition to the amounts payable by the Company under Section 4.4, on or prior to each date on which the Paying Agent is required to disburse the purchase price for any Bond tendered or deemed tendered in accordance with Article III of the Indenture, the Company will pay or cause to be paid, as necessary, by the time and in the manner specified in the Indenture, to the extent remarketing proceeds are unavailable therefor, the purchase price of bonds tendered to the Paying Agent (as agent for the Owners) pursuant to Article III of the Indenture, in lawful money of the United States of America (as required by the Indenture), which will be held in trust for the benefit of the tendering Owners or Owners that are deemed to have been tendered in an amount which, together with any amounts available to the Paying Agent for said purpose, will be sufficient to pay the purchase price for all Bonds which are to be purchased on such date. - 7 -
(b) The Issuer shall have no obligation, financial or otherwise, with respect to payment of the purchase price of any Bonds required to be purchased pursuant to the Indenture, or for arrangements therefor, except that the Issuer shall generally cooperate with the Company, the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Remarketing Agent, as contemplated in the Indenture. Section 4.6. Administrative Expenses. The Company shall pay, or cause to be paid, an amount equal to (i) the reasonable fees and charges of the Trustee for services rendered as Trustee under the Indenture and its reasonable expenses incurred as Trustee under the Indenture, including reasonable fees of its counsel, and (ii) the reasonable fees and charges of the Paying Agent and the reasonable expenses incurred by the Paying Agent as and when the same become due, including the reasonable fees of its counsel. Section 4.7. Payment of Other Costs of Issuer. The Company shall pay to the Issuer, upon receipt of statements therefor from time to time, such amounts as are necessary to pay or reimburse the Issuer for its reasonable and necessary expenses and costs attributable to the Bonds. Section 4.8. Obligations of the Company Absolute and Unconditional. The obligations of the Company to make the payments required in Sections 2.2, 3.1, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 7.1 and 9.3 and to perform and observe the other agreements on its part contained herein shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be subject to diminution by set-off, counterclaim, abatement or otherwise. Until payment of all principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Bonds, and payment in full of the purchase price of any Bonds purchased pursuant to the Indenture, and payment of all other amounts payable by the Company hereunder, the Company (a) will not suspend or discontinue any payments provided for in this Agreement, except to the extent the same have been prepaid, (b) will perform and observe all its other agreements contained herein, and (c) except as provided in Section 7.6, will not terminate this Agreement for any cause, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any acts or circumstances that may constitute failure of consideration, sale, loss, eviction or constructive eviction, destruction of or damage to the Project, commercial frustration of purpose, any change in the tax or other laws of the United States of America or of the State or any political subdivision of either, or any failure of the Issuer to perform and observe any agreement, whether express or implied, or any duty, liability or obligation arising out of or in connection herewith or with the Indenture. Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to release the Issuer from the performance of any of the agreements on its part herein contained and in the event the Issuer shall fail to perform any such agreement on its part, the Company may take such action as the Company may deem necessary to perform or compel performance, provided that no such action shall violate the agreements on the part of the Company contained in this Agreement or postpone or diminish the amounts required to be paid by the Company pursuant to this Agreement. Upon the issuance and delivery of the Bonds to the initial purchasers thereof, the Company shall have received, and the Issuer shall have given, full and complete consideration for the Company's obligation hereunder to make Loan Payments. Section 4.9. Option to Prepay Amounts Under Agreement in Whole in Certain Events. The Company shall have, and is hereby granted, the option to prepay the amounts required to be paid by the Company under Section 4.4 in whole and to direct the Trustee to redeem the Bonds - 8 -
in whole if any of the events described in the Indenture permitting such redemption shall have occurred. The Company may at any time deliver money, and/or Government Obligations to the Trustee with instructions to the Trustee to hold such money and Government Obligations pursuant to Article VIII of the Indenture in connection with a discharge of the Indenture. The Issuer agrees that, at the request at any time of the Company, it will cooperate with the Company to cause the Bonds or any portion thereof to be redeemed to the extent permitted by the Indenture. Section 4.10. Company's Performance Under Indenture. The Company agrees, for the benefit of the Owners, to do and perform all acts and things contemplated in the Indenture to be done or performed by it and to not interfere with the exercise of the power and authority granted to the Trustee in the Indenture. The Company further agrees to aid in furnishing to the Issuer or the Trustee any documents, certificates or opinions that may be required under the Indenture. Section 4.11 Credit Facility. (a) Initially, there shall be no Credit Facility. The Company, after receiving the written consent of the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing), may at any time provide for a Change of Credit Facility, provided that the Company delivers to the Trustee, the Auction Agent, the Municipal Bond Insurer and the Remarketing Agent, not less than five Business Days prior to the date on which the Trustee must notify the Owners of a Change of Credit Facility pursuant to Section 2.18 of the Indenture and prior to the effective date of any such Change of Credit Facility, the following: (1) a notice which (A) states the effective date of the delivery of the Credit Facility or the date of the Change of Credit Facility, (B) describes the terms of the Change of Credit Facility, and (C) directs the Trustee to give notice pursuant to Section 2.18(a) of the Indenture; (2) a Favorable Opinion of Bond Counsel with respect to such Change of Credit Facility and stating, in effect, that such Change of Credit Facility is authorized under this Agreement; (3) a certificate of an Authorized Company Representative as to whether the Bonds are then rated by either Moody's or S&P, or both; and (4) written evidence from Moody's, if the Bonds are then rated by Moody's, and from S&P, if the Bonds are then rated by S&P, in each case to the effect that such rating agency has reviewed the proposed Change of Credit Facility and that such Change of Credit Facility will not, by itself, result in a reduction, suspension or withdrawal of its rating or ratings of the Bonds. (b) In lieu of satisfying the requirements of subsection (a) above, the Company, after receiving the written consent of the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing), may provide for a Change of Credit Facility at any time that the Bonds are subject to optional redemption pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of the - 9 -
Indenture, provided that the Company delivers to the Trustee, the Municipal Bond Insurer, the Auction Agent and the Remarketing Agent not less than 30 days before the effective date of the Change of Credit Facility: (1) a notice which (A) states the effective date of the Change of Credit Facility, (B) describes the terms of the Change of Credit Facility, (C) directs the Trustee to give notice pursuant to Section 2.18(b) of the Indenture that the Bonds are subject to mandatory purchase, in whole, on or before the effective date of the Change of Credit Facility in accordance with Section 3.02(a)(iii) of the Indenture, and (D) directs the Trustee to take any other action as shall be necessary for the Trustee to take to effect the Change of Credit Facility; and (2) on or before the effective date of the Change of Credit Facility, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee a Favorable Opinion of Bond Counsel satisfying the requirements of Section 4.11(a)(2) above. (c) The Company, after receiving the written consent of the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing), may provide for one or more extensions of a Credit Facility for any period commencing after its then-current expiration date without complying with the foregoing provisions of this Section. (d) The Company may rescind its election to make a Change of Credit Facility at any time prior to the effective date thereof. ARTICLE V RESERVED ARTICLE VI REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS OF THE ISSUER Section 6.1. Representations and Warranties of the Issuer. The Issuer represents and warrants that: (a) The Issuer is a public body corporate and politic of the State of Michigan duly created under the Act. (b) The Issuer has full power and authority under the Act and the Constitution and laws of the State to adopt the Bond Resolution, to issue the Bonds, to execute and deliver the Bond Documents to be executed and delivered by it and to perform its obligations under the Bond Documents. - 10 -
(c) The Issuer has duly adopted the Bond Resolution, and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of the Bond Documents to be executed and delivered by it. All action required on the part of the Issuer for the authorization of the issuance of the Bonds and the execution and delivery of the Bond Documents to be executed and delivered by it has been duly and effectively taken. (d) The Bond Documents to which the Issuer is a party constitute valid and binding obligations of the Issuer, enforceable against the Issuer in accordance with their terms (except that (i) the enforceability of such Bond Documents may be limited by bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws of general application relating to the enforcement of creditors' rights, (ii) certain equitable remedies, including specific performance, may be unavailable and (iii) the indemnification provisions contained therein may be limited by applicable securities laws and public policy). (e) All filings with, or approvals or consents of, governmental authorities (other than approvals or consents required under the Blue Sky or other securities laws of any jurisdiction) required to be made or obtained by the Issuer for (i) the valid adoption of the Bond Resolution, (ii) the valid authorization, execution and delivery by the Issuer of the Bond Documents to which it is a party and (iii) the valid issuance of the Bonds, have been, or prior to the issuance of the Bonds, will be, duly made or obtained. (f) There is no pending action, suit, proceeding or investigation at law or in equity before or by any court, either state or federal, or public board or body served upon the Issuer or, to the Issuer's knowledge, threatened, calling into question the creation or existence of the Issuer, the validity of the Bond Resolution and the Bond Documents to be executed and delivered by it, the authority of the Issuer to execute and deliver the Bond Documents to be executed and delivered by it and to perform its obligations under the Bond Documents, or the title of any person to the office held by that person with the Issuer. (g) The execution and delivery by the Issuer of the Bond Documents to be executed and delivered by it, and the performance of its obligations under the Bond Resolution and the Bond Documents, will not violate any provision of law or regulation, or of any judgment, decree, writ, order or injunction, and will not contravene the provisions of, or constitute a default under, or result in the creation of a lien, charge or encumbrance under, any agreement (other than the Indenture) to which the Issuer is a party or by which any of its properties constituting a part of the Trust Estate are bound. (h) No event has occurred, and no condition currently exists, which constitutes or may, with the passage of time or the giving of notice, or both, constitute an Event of Default on the part of the Issuer. (i) Neither this Agreement nor the Loan Payments have been pledged or hypothecated in any manner or for any purpose other than as provided in the Indenture as security for the payment of the Bonds. - 11 -
(j) All of the proceedings approving this Agreement and the Indenture were conducted by the Issuer at meetings which complied with the Open Meetings Act, 1976 PA 267. Each of the foregoing representations and warranties shall be deemed to have been made as of the date of delivery of the Bonds. Section 6.2. Covenants of the Issuer. The Issuer covenants and agrees that: (a) The Issuer will faithfully perform all of its obligations under the Bond Documents. (b) The Issuer will not knowingly take any action, which action will adversely affect the exclusion from gross income for federal income tax purposes of interest on the Bonds. (c) To the extent that it is within its power to do so, the Issuer will maintain the validity and effectiveness of the Bond Documents, and of the Issuer's pledge and assignment to the Trustee thereunder, and (except as expressly permitted by such Bond Documents) will not take any action, the taking of which will release the Company from its obligations under such Bond Documents or result in the surrender, termination or modification (except as permitted by the Bond Documents) of, or impair the validity of, such Bond Documents. (d) The Issuer will observe the covenants made by it in the Indenture; it will use its best efforts to cause the Company to have and exercise all the rights, powers and benefits stated to be in the Company in this Agreement and the Indenture; and so long as no Event of Default exists, it will not join in the modification of the Bond Documents in any manner without the prior written consent of the Company and the Trustee. ARTICLE VII INDEMNIFICATION; REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND COVENANTS OF THE COMPANY Section 7.1. Indemnification of Issuer and Indemnified Persons. (a) The Issuer and the Indemnified Persons shall not be liable to the Company for any reason. The Company shall indemnify and hold the Issuer and the Indemnified Persons harmless from any loss, expense (including reasonable counsel fees), or liability of any nature due to any and all suits, actions, legal or administrative proceedings, or claims arising or resulting from, or in any way connected with: (i) the financing, installation, operation, use, or maintenance of the Project, - 12 -
(ii) the refunding of the Prior Bonds, (iii) any act, failure to act, or misrepresentation by any person, firm, corporation or governmental agency, including the Issuer, in connection with the issuance, sale, delivery or remarketing of the Bonds, or (iv) any act, failure to act, or misrepresentation by the Issuer in connection with this Agreement, the other Bond Documents or any other document involving the Issuer in this matter. If any suit, action or proceeding is brought against the Issuer or any Indemnified Person relating to clauses (i) through (iv) above, that action or proceeding shall be defended by counsel to the Issuer or the Company, as the Issuer shall determine. If the defense is by counsel to the Issuer, which is the Attorney General of the State of Michigan or may, in some instances, be private, retained counsel, the Company shall indemnify the Issuer and the Indemnified Persons for the reasonable cost of that defense including reasonable counsel fees. If the Issuer determines that the Company shall defend the Issuer or Indemnified Person, the Company shall immediately assume the defense at its own cost. The Company shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding made without its consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld). (b) The Company shall not be obligated to indemnify the Issuer or any Indemnified Person under subsection (a), if a court with competent jurisdiction finds that the liability in question was caused by the willful misconduct or sole gross negligence of the Issuer or the involved Indemnified Person, unless the court determines that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all circumstances of the case, the Issuer or the Indemnified Person(s) is (are) fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for the expenses which the court considers proper. (c) The Company shall also indemnify the Issuer for all reasonable costs and expenses, including reasonable counsel fees, incurred in: (i) enforcing any obligation of the Company under this Agreement, the other Bond Documents or any related agreement, (ii) taking any action requested by the Company, (iii) taking any action required by this Agreement, the other Bond Documents or any related agreement, or (iv) taking any action considered necessary by the Issuer and which is authorized by this Agreement, the other Bond Documents or any related agreement. (d) The obligations of the Company under this section shall survive any assignment or termination of this Agreement. - 13 -
Section 7.2. Filing and Recording. The Company covenants that if required by statute: (i) from time to time, it will cause any Bond Document and each amendment and supplement thereto (or a memorandum with respect thereto or to such amendment or supplement) to be filed, registered and recorded and to be refiled, reregistered and rerecorded in such manner and in such places as may be required in order to publish notice of and fully to protect the liens, if any, or to perfect or continue the perfection of the security interests, if any, created thereby and (ii) it shall perform or cause to be performed from time to time any other act as required by law, and it will execute or cause to be executed any and all instruments of further assurance that may be necessary for such publication, perfection, continuation and protection. Section 7.3. Removal of Liens. If any lien, encumbrance or charge of any kind based on any claim of any kind (including, without limitation, any claim for income, franchise or other taxes, whether federal, state or otherwise) shall be asserted or filed against the Trust Estate, or any amount paid or payable by the Company under or pursuant to this Agreement or any order (whether or not valid) of any court shall be entered with respect to the Trust Estate, or any such amount by virtue of any claim of any kind, in either case so as to: (a) interfere with the due payment of such amount to the Trustee or the due application of such amount by the Trustee pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture, (b) subject the Owners to any obligation to refund any money applied to payment of principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, the Bonds, or (c) result in the refusal of the Trustee to make such due application because of its reasonable determination that liability might be incurred if such due application were to be made, then the Company will promptly take such action (including, but not limited to, the payment of money) as may be necessary to prevent, or to nullify the cause or result of, such interference, obligation or refusal, as the case may be. Section 7.4. Federal Income Tax Exemption. The Company covenants to take such action to assure and to refrain from any action which would adversely affect the treatment of the Bonds as obligations described in Section 103 of the Code, the interest on which is not includable in the "gross income" of the holder (other than the income for a "substantial user" of the Project or a "related person" within the meaning of Section 147(a) of the Code) for purposes of federal income taxation. In particular, but not by way of limitation thereof, the Company hereby covenants and represents as follows: (a) Substantially all (i.e., at least 95%) of the net proceeds of the sale of the Prior Bonds (which for the purposes of this subparagraph shall include the bonds refunded with the proceeds of Prior Bonds when Prior Bonds were refunding bonds) have been used to provide "water and/or air pollution control facilities" within the meaning of Section 103(b)(4)(F) of the 1954 Code, and all of the costs of the Project paid with the proceeds of the Prior Bonds constitute costs which are properly chargeable to a capital account of the Company for Federal income tax purposes or would be so chargeable - 14 -
either with a proper election by the Company or but for a proper election by the Company to deduct such costs. All of the proceeds of the Prior Bonds have been expended. (b) The principal amount of the Bonds does not exceed the combined aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Prior Bonds on the date hereof. The original proceeds of the Bonds shall be fully utilized within 90 days of the Issue Date to pay the principal of the Prior Bonds. (c) No portion of the proceeds of the Bonds or the Prior Bonds were or will be used to provide the following: airplanes, skyboxes or other private luxury boxes, any health club facility, any facility primarily used for gambling or any store the principal business of which is the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off premises. (Code Section. 147(e) provides and 1954 Code Section. 103(b)(18) provided that interest on any obligation issued as part of an issue will not be excluded from gross income for Federal income tax purposes if any portion of the proceeds of such issue is to be used to provide any airplane, skybox or other private luxury box, any health club facility, any facility primarily used for gambling or any store the principal business of which is the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off premises). (d) Less than 25% of the proceeds of the Prior Bonds were used directly or indirectly for the acquisition of land used for other than farming purposes, and no portion of the Bond proceeds is to be used, directly or indirectly, for the acquisition of land used for farming purposes (Code Sections. 144(a)(11) and 147(c) provide and 1954 Code Section 103(b)(16) provided that interest with respect to any obligation issued as part of an issue will not be excluded from gross income for Federal income tax purposes if any portion of the proceeds of such issue is to be used (directly or indirectly) for the acquisition of land (or an interest therein) to be used for farming purposes, or 25% or more of the proceeds of such issue is to be used (directly or indirectly) for the acquisition of land not used for farming purposes). (e) No portion of the Bond proceeds or the proceeds of the Prior Bonds was used for the acquisition of any property (or an interest therein) the first use of which property is not pursuant to such acquisition unless the rehabilitation requirements of 1954 Code Section 103(b)(17) are met with respect to the Project or the property financed with proceeds of the Prior Bonds. (Code Section. 147(d) provides and 1954 Code Section. 103(b)(17) provided that interest with respect to any obligation issued as part of an issue will not be excluded from gross income for Federal income tax purposes if any portion of the proceeds of such issue is to be used for the acquisition of any property (or an interest therein) unless the first use of such property is pursuant to such acquisition, or unless certain rehabilitation requirements are met). (f) Except as is permitted by Code Section. 149(b) and 1954 Code Section. 103(h), the Bonds are not federally guaranteed within these provisions. (g) The weighted average maturity of the Bonds does not exceed 120% of the weighted average of the expected economic life of the Project originally financed with - 15 -
the proceeds of the Prior Bonds reduced by the period of time which has elapsed between the date such property was placed in service and the Issue Date. For purposes of this representation, the term "expected economic life" means (a) the lives used in the Company's long-range planning studies of the retirement dates for its steam-driven electric generation property, or (b) the life for which such property is designed and licensed. (h) Section 103(o) of the 1954 Code provides that interest on any "consumer loan bond" is not exempt from Federal income taxation. "Consumer loan bond" is defined as any obligation which is issued as part of an issue all or a significant portion of the proceeds of which are reasonably expected to be used directly or indirectly to make or finance loans, except as otherwise allowed to persons who are not exempt persons within Section 103(o) of the 1954 Code, but does not include, inter alia, any industrial development bond. The Company hereby certifies that all or a major portion of the proceeds of the Bonds will be used directly or indirectly in the trade or business of the Company, and the payment of the principal of or interest on the Bonds, under the terms of the Bonds, is, in whole or in major part, secured by an interest in property used or to be used in the trade or business of the Company or in payments in respect of such property, or to be derived from payments in respect of property, or borrowed money, used or to be used in the trade or business of the Company. (i) None of the proceeds of the Bonds will be used to finance Costs of Issuance. (j) The Company covenants and represents that it has not taken, or permitted to be taken on its behalf, or failed to take and agrees that it will not take, or permit to be taken on its behalf, or fail to take any action which, if taken or omitted to be taken, would adversely affect the exclusion from gross income for federal income tax purposes of the interest paid on the Bonds and that it will take, or require to be taken, such acts as may from time to time be required under applicable law or regulation to preserve the exclusion from gross income for federal income tax purposes of the interest on the Bonds, except to the extent that the Bonds are held by a substantial user of the Project or a related person thereto as those terms are used in Section 147 of the Code. In furtherance of the foregoing, the Company also agrees on behalf of the Issuer to comply with all arbitrage rebate requirements and procedures as may become applicable to the Bonds. (k) The Company will not sell or cause to be sold any other obligations issued by or on behalf of any state, territory or possession of the United States, or political subdivision of the preceding, or the District of Columbia on behalf of or for the benefit of the Company or any related person to the Company which are private activity bonds (within the meaning of Section 103(b) of the Code) within 15 days of the date of sale of the Bonds pursuant to a common plan of marketing with the Bonds without (a) delivering a certificate to Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C., and the Attorney General of the State of Michigan to the effect that such obligations meet all applicable requirements of the Code such that their aggregation will not cause the Bonds or the aggregate issue to fail to meet such requirements thereby impairing the tax-exempt status of the interest on - 16 -
such obligations, and the tax-exempt status of the obligations as a whole, is maintained, and (b) obtaining an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel, which may be Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C., in a form acceptable to Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C. and the Attorney General of the State of Michigan, that the interest on such obligations is excluded from gross income for Federal income tax purposes, unless the foregoing requirements are waived by Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, P.L.C. and by the Attorney General of the State of Michigan. (l) The Company agrees to follow the remedial action requirements of Treas. Reg. Section. 1.142-2 with respect to any actions which cause the Bonds or the Prior Bonds not to meet the requirements of Sections 103(b)(4)(F) of the 1954 Code (such Section requires that substantially all of the proceeds of the obligations qualifying thereunder must be used for air or water pollution control facilities). Any proceeds received upon the sale or other disposition of any of the property which is included in the Project or constitutes property financed or refinanced with the proceeds of the Prior Bonds prior to the final maturity of the Bonds will be invested at a yield not greater than the yield on the Bonds, as defined in Exhibit A to the Tax Certificate of the Company, and used as required by Treas. Reg. Section. 1.142-2, unless in the opinion of Bond Counsel some other use of such proceeds will not impair the exclusion from gross income of the interest on the Bonds. (m) The Company is aware of no facts or circumstances which would cause the original approving opinions issued with respect to the Prior Bonds to have been improperly issued. (n) The Company has complied with and intends to comply with its obligations, covenants and representations under the documents related to the Prior Bonds and the Bond Documents to the extent such obligations affect the Tax-Exempt status of the Bonds. (o) The Company shall agree at the time of the delivery of the Bonds, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 15c2-12 (the "Rule") promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), to provide or cause to be provided to each nationally recognized municipal securities information repository ("NRMSIR") and to the appropriate state information repository, if any, for the State of Michigan ("SID"), in each case as designated by the SEC in accordance with the Rule, the information required to be periodically disclosed pursuant to such Rule 15c2-12. Failure by the Company to comply with the continuing disclosure undertaking shall not constitute a default or an Event of Default under this Agreement or the Indenture. Section 7.5. Company Representations and Covenants. (a) The Company represents and warrants: (i) that it has no present intention of disposing of or abandoning the Project nor of directing the Project to a use other than the purposes represented to the Issuer; (ii) that it intends to cause the Project to be operated as a "project" as defined in Section 4(f) of the Act; (iii) that the Project is in - 17 -
furtherance of the public purposes of the Act, to wit: the promotion and development of industrial and manufacturing enterprises to promote and encourage employment and the public welfare; and (iv) that it has all necessary licenses and permits to operate the Project, and that the Project has been approved by all necessary governmental bodies or agencies having jurisdiction. (b) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of and is qualified to do business in the State of Michigan, with full corporate power to own its properties and conduct its business and has full legal right, power and authority to enter into this Agreement and any other Bond Documents to which it is a party and to carry out and consummate all transactions contemplated by this Agreement and any other Bond Documents to which it is a party. (c) The execution and delivery of this Agreement and any other Bond Documents to which it is a party and the consummation of the transactions herein contemplated will not conflict with or constitute on the part of the Company a breach of or default under the Organizational Documents, and do not and will not constitute on the part of the Company a breach or a default under any material indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, lease, note agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it or its properties are bound, or any statute, order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its activities or properties. (d) This Agreement or any other Bond Documents to which it is a party have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, (except that (i) the enforceability of this Agreement and such other Bond Documents may be limited by bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws of general application relating to the enforcement of creditors' rights, (ii) certain equitable remedies, including specific performance, may be unavailable and (iii) the indemnification provisions contained therein may be limited by applicable securities laws and public policy). (e) Neither the Company nor any of its business or properties, nor any relationship between the Company and any other person, nor any circumstances in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement or the offer, issue, sale or delivery by the Issuer of the Bonds, is such as to require the consent, approval or authorization of, or the filing, registration or qualification with, any governmental authority on the part of the Company, other than those already obtained as of the Issue Date; provided, however, no representation is made herein as to compliance with the securities or "blue sky" laws of any jurisdiction. (f) No event has occurred and no condition exists with respect to the Company that would constitute an Event of Default under the Indenture or which, with the lapse of time or by giving of notice or both, would become an Event of Default under the Indenture. - 18 -
(g) The Project was for the purpose of constructing and installing certain pollution control facilities at the Plant. (h) The refinancing of the Project will not have the effect of transferring employment from one municipality of the State of Michigan to another except for any transfer of employment consented to by any municipality from which that employment is transferred. Section 7.6. Maintenance of Corporate Existence. The Company agrees that during the term of this Agreement it will maintain its corporate existence, will not dissolve or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets and will not consolidate with or merge into another corporation; provided, however, that the Company may, without violating the agreement contained in this Section, consolidate with or merge into another corporation, or sell or otherwise transfer to another corporation all or substantially all of its assets as an entirety and thereafter dissolve, if the surviving, resulting or transferee corporation, as the case may be, assumes in a writing delivered to the Trustee all of the obligations of the Company herein and is duly qualified to do business in the State. Section 7.7. Financial Information. The Company agrees to furnish to the Issuer and the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing), at either of their written request, a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to its stockholders and to furnish the Trustee, the Paying Agent, the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing) or the Issuer a copy of the Company's most recent Form 10-K Annual Reports and Form 10-Q Quarterly Reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Section 7.8. Agreement of Issuer Not to Assign or Pledge. Except for the assignment and pledge described in the Indenture, the Issuer agrees that it will not attempt to further assign, pledge, transfer or convey its interest in or create any assignment, pledge, lien, charge or encumbrance of any form or nature with respect to the rights and interests therein described. Section 7.9. Reference to Bonds Ineffective After Bonds Paid. Upon payment of all principal of, premium, if any, and interest due and owing on the Bonds, payment in full of the purchase price of Bonds required to be purchased pursuant to the Indenture, and payment of all fees and charges of the Issuer, the Trustee, the Registrar and the Paying Agent, all references herein to the Bonds and the Trustee shall be ineffective and neither the Issuer, the Trustee nor the holders of any of the Bonds shall thereafter have any rights hereunder and the Company shall have no further obligation hereunder, saving and excepting those that shall have theretofore vested and any right of the Issuer or the Trustee to indemnification under Section 7.1 and payment of fees under Section 9.3, which right shall survive the payment of all principal of, premium if any, and interest on the Bonds and the termination of this Agreement. Reference is hereby made to Article VIII of the Indenture. Section 7.10. Assignments or Lease of Project. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.4 and Section 7.6, the Company may assign its interest in this Agreement and may sell or lease the Project, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the Trustee or the Issuer; provided that no assignment, lease or sale shall relieve the Company of primary liability for the - 19 -
Loan Payments due hereunder and of the performance of all other obligations required hereunder, and that the Company delivers to the Trustee and to the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing), within thirty (30) days after the date of execution and delivery thereof, a copy of such assignment, sales agreement or lease. Section 7.11. Amendment of Agreement or Indenture. No amendment, change, addition to, or waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement or the Indenture shall be binding upon the parties hereto unless in writing signed by the Authorized Company Representative and a member of the Issuer or other officer authorized by the governing body of the Issuer and such amendment, change, addition to or waiver has been consented to in writing by the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing) which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, it is covenanted and agreed, for the benefit of the Owners and the Trustee, that (without the concurrence of all of the Owners and the Trustee) the provisions of this Agreement shall not be amended, changed, added to or waived in any way which would relieve or abrogate the obligations of the Company to make or pay, or cause to be made or paid, when due, all Loan Payments and purchase price payments with respect to any then Outstanding Bonds in the manner and under the terms and conditions provided herein and the Bond Resolution or the Indenture, or which would materially change or affect Sections 4.4 through 4.8, 7.1, 7.4, 7.6 and 9.3. Section 7.12. Indemnification of the Trustee. The Company shall compensate, reimburse for expenses and indemnify and hold harmless the Trustee, the Paying Agent and the Registrar to the extent and in the manner provided by the Indenture. ARTICLE VIII ASSIGNMENT Section 8.1. Assignment by the Company. The Company may transfer or assign this Agreement or transfer or assign any or all of its rights and delegate any or all of its duties hereunder without the necessity of obtaining the consent of the Issuer, the Trustee, the Provider, if any, the Municipal Bond Insurer or the Owners of the Bonds, but no such transfer, assignment or delegation shall relieve the Company or any successor Company of its liability for the payment of the Loan Payments or for the payment of any other amounts to be paid by it under this Agreement and for the full observance and performance of all of the covenants and conditions to be observed and performed by it which are contained in this Agreement, unless the Company has received the express prior written consent of the Issuer, the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing), the Provider, if any (unless a Provider Default shall have occurred and be continuing), and of the Owners of not less than 60% in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds then Outstanding. - 20 -
Section 8.2. Issuer's Rights of Assignment. The Issuer may, only in accordance with the Indenture, assign this Agreement and the Loan Payments thereunder and pledge the moneys receivable hereunder to the Trustee as security for payment of principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, the Bonds. The Company hereby assents to such assignment and agrees that the Trustee may exercise and enforce in accordance with the Indenture any of such rights of the Issuer under this Agreement. Any such assignment, however, shall be subject to all of the rights and privileges of the Company as provided in this Agreement. ARTICLE IX EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES Section 9.1. Trustee and Remedies. (a) The Company is advised and recognizes that the Issuer will assign all of its right, title, and interest in and to all of the Loan Payments required to be made pursuant to this Agreement, and the right to receive and collect same, to the Trustee under the Indenture. All rights of the Issuer against the Company arising under this Agreement, the Bond Resolution or the Indenture may be enforced by the Issuer; or such rights may be enforced by the Trustee, or the Owners of the Bonds, to the extent provided in the Indenture, without making the Issuer a party. (b) The following shall be "Events of Default" under this Agreement, and the term "Events of Default" shall mean, whenever used in this Agreement, any one or more of the following events: (i) Failure by the Company to pay the Loan Payments in the amounts and at the times provided in this Agreement. (ii) Any misrepresentation or breach of a warranty made by the Company in the Agreement which impairs the exclusion of interest on the Bonds or any portion thereof from gross income for Federal income tax purposes. (iii) Failure by the Company to perform any obligation or observe any condition on its part to be performed or observed pursuant to this Agreement for a period of 90 days after receipt of written notice specifying such failure and requesting that it be remedied, given to the Company by the Issuer, the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing) or the Trustee; provided, however, that if said failure shall be such that it cannot be corrected within such period, it shall not constitute an Event of Default if the failure, in the judgment of the Trustee in reliance upon advice of counsel, is correctable without material adverse effect on the Bonds and if corrective action is instituted by the Company within such period and diligently pursued until corrected. (iv) The dissolution or liquidation of the Company except as permitted under this Agreement; or failure by the Company promptly to lift any execution, garnishment or attachment of such consequence as will impair its ability to carry out its obligations under - 21 -
this Agreement; or if the Company becomes insolvent or bankrupt, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or consents to the appointment of a trustee or receiver for the Company or for the greater part of its properties; or a trustee or receiver is appointed for the Company or for the greater part of its properties without its consent and is not discharged within 90 days; or bankruptcy, reorganization or liquidation proceedings are commenced by or against the Company, and if commenced against the Company are consented to by it or remain undismissed for 90 days; or if an order for relief is entered against the Company in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding and remains undismissed for 90 days. (v) The occurrence and continuance of an Event of Default under the Indenture. (c) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the Trustee shall have the power to proceed with any right or remedy granted by the Constitution and laws of the State, as it may deem best, including any suit, action or special proceeding in equity or at law, including mandamus proceedings, for the specific performance of any agreement, obligation or covenant contained herein or for the enforcement of any proper legal or equitable remedy as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect the rights of the Owners; provided, however, any such proceedings shall be subject to the provisions of Section 15.14 of the Indenture relating to Force Majeure. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under the Indenture pursuant to the terms of which the Trustee shall have declared the Bonds immediately due and payable, then all payments required to be made by the Company under Section 4.4(b) (other than interest not yet accrued) shall become immediately due and payable, as directed by the Municipal Bond Insurer (unless a Municipal Bond Insurer Default shall have occurred and be continuing). (d) Any amounts collected pursuant to actions taken under this Section shall be paid into the Bond Fund and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture. Section 9.2. Annulment of Acceleration. If, in compliance with the requirements of Section 9.02 of the Indenture, the Trustee shall annul an acceleration declared due to any Event of Default under the Indenture such annulment shall be deemed to also rescind any acceleration of all payments required under Section 4.4. In case of any such annulment, or in case any proceeding taken by the Trustee on account of any such Event of Default shall have been discontinued or abandoned or determined adversely, then and in every such case the Issuer, the Company, the Trustee and the Owners shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, but no such annulment shall extend to any subsequent or other Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon. Section 9.3. Agreement to Pay Attorneys' Fees and Expenses. In the event the Company should default under any of the provisions of this Agreement and the Issuer or the Trustee should employ attorneys or incur other expenses for the collection of payments required hereunder or the enforcement of performance or observance of any obligation or agreement on the part of the Company herein contained, the Company agrees that it will upon demand therefor pay to the Issuer or the Trustee the reasonable fees of such attorneys and such other reasonable expenses so incurred by the Issuer or the Trustee. - 22 -
Section 9.4. General Enforcement Provisions. (a) The terms of this Agreement may be enforced as to one or more breaches either separately or cumulatively. (b) No remedy conferred upon or reserved to the Issuer, the Trustee, or the Owners of the Bonds in this Agreement is intended to be exclusive of any other available remedy or remedies, but each and every such remedy shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other remedy now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute. No delay or omission to exercise any right or power accruing upon any default, omission, or failure of performance hereunder shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver thereof, but any such right and power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient. In the event any provision contained in this Agreement should be breached by the Company and thereafter duly waived, such waiver shall be limited to the particular breach so waived and shall not be deemed to waive any other breach of this Agreement. No waiver by any party of any breach by any other party of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach, whether of the same or of a different provision of this Agreement. ARTICLE X GENERAL PROVISIONS Section 10.1. Force Majeure. If, by reason of Force Majeure, either the Issuer or the Company shall be rendered unable wholly or in part to carry out its obligations under this Agreement, and if such party gives notice and full particulars of such Force Majeure in writing to the other party within a reasonable time after failure to carry out its obligations under this Agreement, such obligations (other than the obligations of the Company specified in the last sentence of this Section) of the party giving such notice, so far as they are affected by such Force Majeure, shall be suspended during the continuance of the inability then claimed, including a reasonable time for removal of the effect thereof. The requirement that any Force Majeure shall be reasonably beyond the control of the party shall be deemed to be fulfilled even though any existing or impending strike, lockout or other industrial disturbance may not be settled but could have been settled by acceding to the demand of the opposing person or persons. The occurrence of any Force Majeure shall not suspend or otherwise abate, and the Company shall not be relieved from, the obligation to pay the Loan Payments and to pay any other payments required to be made by it under this Agreement at the times required. Section 10.2. Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is entered into in part to induce the purchase of the Bonds, and accordingly, so long as any Bonds are Outstanding, all respective covenants and agreements of the parties herein contained are hereby declared to be for the benefit of any and all Owners and may be enforced by or on behalf of the Owners only by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture. This Agreement shall not be deemed to create any right of subrogation or otherwise in any person who is not a party hereto (other than the permitted successors and assigns of a party) and shall not be construed in any respect to be a contract in whole or in part for the benefit of any third party (other than the permitted successors - 23 -
or assigns of a party hereto), except in each case the Owners, the Trustee, the Municipal Bond Insurer and the Indemnified Persons. Section 10.3. Notices; Communications. All notices, approvals, consents, requests and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when delivered or mailed by first class registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or overnight mail, postage prepaid, and addressed as follows: (a) If to the Issuer: Michigan Strategic Fund 300 N. Washington Square, 4th Floor Lansing, MI 48909 Attention: President (b) If to the Company: The Detroit Edison Company 2000 Second Avenue Detroit, Michigan 48226 Attention: Vice President and Treasurer (c) If to the Trustee, Registrar or the Paying Agent: J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association 611 Woodward Avenue, Mail Suite MI1-8110 Detroit, Michigan 48226 Attention: Corporate and Municipal Trust Services A duplicate copy of each notice, approval, consent, request or other communication given hereunder by the Issuer, the Company, the Trustee, the Registrar or the Paying Agent to any one of the others shall also be given to all of the others. The Issuer, the Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and the Paying Agent may, by notice given hereunder, designate any further or different addresses to which subsequent notices, approvals, consents, requests or other communications shall be sent or persons to whose attention the same shall be directed. Section 10.4. Amendments, Governing Law, Etc. This Agreement (a) may be modified or amended only as provided in the Indenture and in Section 7.11 hereof; and (b) shall be governed in all respects including validity, interpretation and effect by, and shall be enforceable in accordance with, the laws of the United States of America and the State. The parties agree that, in accordance with the Act and subject to the limitations of Section 4.4(e), they will amend this Agreement to increase the payments to be made by the Company hereunder if for any reason such payments, if made, are not sufficient to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, the Bonds as the same become due. - 24 -
Section 10.5. Severability. In the event that any clause or provision of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity of such clause or provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Agreement. Section 10.6. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from the date of execution and delivery hereof until the Indenture has been discharged in accordance with the provisions thereof; provided, however, that the provisions of Sections 4.6 and 7.1 of this Agreement shall survive any expiration or termination of this Agreement. Section 10.7. Company's Approval of Bond Documents. The Bond Documents have been submitted to the Company for examination, and the Company acknowledges that, by execution of this Agreement, it has approved the Bond Documents and will perform the obligations imposed upon it thereunder. Section 10.8. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Section 10.9. Captions. The captions and headings herein are for convenience only and in no way define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions hereof. Section 10.10. Payments on Non-Business Days. If any payment required hereunder is due on a date not a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date fixed for such payment, and no interest shall accrue on such amount for the period after such date. [the rest of this page intentionally left blank] - 25 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer and the Company have signed this Agreement by their duly authorized representatives as of the date set forth above. MICHIGAN STRATEGIC FUND By /s/ Diane E. Cranmer -------------------------------- Its Authorized Officer THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY By /s/ N.A. Khouri -------------------------------- N.A. Khouri Its Vice President and Treasurer - 26 -


