FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20050804170632.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
We are filing this Form 8-K to enable investors to review certain financial data reflected in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, on a basis consistent with a realignment of our business segments which was adopted in the second quarter of 2005. Through the first quarter of 2005, we operated our businesses through three strategic business units (Energy Resources, Energy Distribution and Energy Gas). Each business unit had utility and non-utility operations. The balance of our business consisted of Corporate & Other. In the second quarter of 2005, we realigned our business units to strengthen the Company's focus on customer relationships and growth within our non-utility businesses. Based on this structure we set strategic goals, allocate resources and evaluate performance.
Beginning with the second quarter of 2005, we report our segment information based on the following realignment:
Item 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)  Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Units of Measurement
 
Certain information presented herein includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual future results to differ materially from those contemplated, projected, estimated or budgeted in such forward-looking statements. There are many factors that may impact forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, the following:
New factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict what factors may arise or how such factors may cause our results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

 
Exhibit 99.2
OVERVIEW
DTE Energy is a diversified energy company with approximately $7 billion in revenues in 2004 and approximately $21 billion in assets at December 31, 2004. We are the parent company of Detroit Edison and MichCon, regulated electric and gas utilities engaged primarily in the business of providing electricity and natural gas sales and distribution services throughout southeastern Michigan. Additionally, we have numerous non-utility subsidiaries involved in energy-related businesses predominantly in the Midwest and eastern U.S.
A significant portion of our earnings is derived from our utility operations, synthetic fuel business, and energy marketing and trading operations. Earnings in first quarter of 2005 were $122 million, or $.70 per diluted share, compared to earnings in the 2004 first quarter of $190 million, or $1.11 per diluted share. In June 2004, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position No. 106-2, "" retroactive to January 1, 2004 and as a result earnings for the first quarter of 2004 have been restated. As a result of the restatement, earnings for the period ending March 31, 2004 increased by $4 million or $.02 per diluted share.
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,
The items discussed below influenced our first quarter 2005 financial performance and/or may affect future results are:
Synthetic fuel operations
We operate nine synthetic fuel production plants at eight locations. Since 2002, we have sold interests in eight of the nine plants, representing approximately 88% of our total production capacity. Synfuel facilities chemically change coal, including waste and marginal coal, into a synthetic fuel as determined under applicable Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules. Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the production and sale of solid synthetic fuel produced from coal. Synfuel-related tax credits expire in December 2007.
Operating expenses associated with synfuel projects exceed operating revenues and therefore generate operating losses, which have been more than offset by the resulting Section 29 tax credits. In order to recognize Section 29 tax credits, a taxpayer must have sufficient taxable income in the year the tax credit is generated. Once earned, the tax credits are utilized subject to certain limitations but can be carried forward indefinitely. We have not had sufficient taxable income to fully utilize tax credits earned in prior periods. As of December 2004, we had $483 million in tax credit carry-forwards. In order to optimize income and cash flow from our synfuel operations, we have sold interests in eight of our nine facilities and intend to sell interests in the remaining plant during 2005, representing 99% of our production capacity. When we sell an interest in a synfuel project, we recognize the gain from such sale as the facility produces and sells synfuel and when there is persuasive evidence that the sales proceeds have become fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Gain recognition is dependent on
 
the synfuel production qualifying for Section 29 tax credits and the value of such credits as subsequently discussed. In substance, we are receiving synfuel gains and reduced operating losses in exchange for tax credits associated with the projects sold. Sales of interests in synfuel projects allow us to accelerate cash flow while maintaining a stable income base.
The value of a Section 29 tax credit can vary each year and is adjusted annually by an inflation factor as published by the IRS in April of the following year. Additionally, the value of the tax credit in a given year is reduced if the "Reference Price" of oil within the year exceeds a threshold price and is eliminated entirely if the Reference Price exceeds a phase-out price. The Reference Price of a barrel of oil is an estimate of the annual average wellhead price per barrel for domestic crude oil, which recently has been $4  $7 lower than the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) price for light, sweet crude oil. The actual or estimated Reference Price and beginning and ending phase-out prices per barrel of oil for 2004 and 2005 are as follows:
Numerous recent events have significantly increased domestic crude oil prices, including terrorism, storm-related supply disruptions and strong worldwide demand. Through March 31, 2005, the NYMEX closing price of a barrel of oil has averaged $50, which due to the uncertainty of the wellhead/NYMEX difference, is comparable to a $43 to $46 Reference Price (assuming that such price was to continue for the entire year.) For 2005 and later years, if the Reference Price falls within or exceeds the phase-out range, the availability of synfuel tax credits in that year would be reduced or eliminated, respectively.
The gain from the sale of synfuel facilities is comprised of fixed and variable components. The fixed component represents note payments of principal and interest, is not subject to refund, and is recognized as a gain when earned and collectability is assured. The variable component includes an estimate of tax credits allocated to our partners, is subject to refund based on the annual oil price phase out, and is recognized as a gain only when probability of refund is considered remote and collectability is assured. Additionally, based on estimates of tax credits allocated, our partners reimburse us (through the project entity) for the operating losses of the synfuel facilities. This amount is subject to refund based on the annual oil price phase out. To assess the probability of refund, we use valuation and analyst models that calculate the probability of surpassing the estimated lower band of the phase-out range for the Reference Price of oil for the year. Due to the rise in oil prices, there is a possibility that the Reference Price of oil could reach the threshold at which Section 29 tax credits phase out. While we believe the possibility of phase out is unlikely, we have not met the strict accounting gain recognition criteria that would allow us to recognize the gains on the variable component. During the first quarter of 2005, we deferred $41 million pretax of the variable component of synfuel-related gains until there is greater certainty of recognition. All or a portion of the deferred gains will be recognized when and if the gain recognition criteria is met. It is possible that additional gains will be deferred in the second and/or third quarters until there is persuasive evidence that no tax credit phase out will occur. This will result in shifting earnings from earlier quarters to later quarters.
As discussed in Note 8, we have entered into derivative and other contracts to economically hedge a portion of our 2005 and 2006 synfuel cash flow exposure related to the risk of an increase in oil prices. The derivative contracts are accounted for under the mark to market method with changes in their fair value recorded as an adjustment to synfuel gains. We recorded a mark to market gain during the 2005 first quarter that increased 2005 synfuel gains by $54 million pre-tax. As part of our synfuel-related risk management strategy, we continue to evaluate alternatives available to mitigate unhedged exposure to oil price volatility.
Assuming no synfuel tax credit phase out in future years, we expect cash flow from our synfuel business to total approximately $1.6 billion between 2005 and 2008. The source of synfuel cash flow includes
 
cash from operations, asset sales, and the utilization of Section 29 tax credits carried forward from synfuel production prior to 2004.
Gas operations
- In December 2001, the MPSC issued an order that permitted MichCon to implement GCR factors up to $3.62 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) for January 2002 billings and up to $4.38 per Mcf for the remainder of 2002. Consistent with the prior order, MichCon recognized a regulatory asset representing the difference between the $4.38 factor and the $3.62 factor for volumes that were unbilled at December 31, 2001. MichCon's 2002 GCR reconciliation case was filed with the MPSC in February 2003. The Staff and various intervening parties in this proceeding sought to have the MPSC disallow $26 million representing unbilled revenues at December 2001. On April 28, 2005, the MPSC issued an order in the 2002 GCR reconciliation case that disallowed $26 million plus accrued interest of $3 million. We recorded the impact of the disallowance in the first quarter of 2005.
Gas cost recovery order
- On April 28, 2005, the MPSC issued an order for final rate relief. The MPSC granted a base rate increase to MichCon of $61 million annually, effective April 29, 2005. This amount is an increase of $26 million over the $35 million in interim rate relief approved in September 2004. The rate increase was based on a 50% debt and 50% equity capital structure and an 11% rate of return on common equity.
Gas final rate order
The MPSC adopted MichCon's proposed tracking mechanism for uncollectible accounts receivable. Each year, MichCon will file an application comparing its actual uncollectible expense to its designated revenue recovery of approximately $37 million. Ninety percent of the difference will be refunded or surcharged after an annual reconciliation proceeding before the MPSC. The MPSC also approved the deferral of the non-capitalized portion of the negative pension expense. MichCon will record a regulatory liability in its financial statements for any negative pension costs as determined under generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, the MPSC approved a one-way tracker which provided for $25 million which is refundable in the event that the funds are not expended for safety and training operation and maintenance expenses.
The MPSC order reduces MichCon's depreciation rates, and the related revenue requirement associated with depreciation expense by $14.5 million with no impact on net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
The MPSC did not allow the recovery of approximately $25 million of costs allocated to MichCon that were incurred by DTE Energy as a result of the acquisition of MCN Energy.
The MPSC order also resulted in the disallowance of computer system and equipment costs and adjustments to environmental regulatory assets and liabilities. The MPSC disallowed recovery of 90% of the costs of a computer billing system that was in place prior to DTE Energy's acquisition of MCN Energy in 2001. As a result of the order, MichCon impaired this asset by approximately $42 million in the first quarter of 2005. This impairment is not reflected at DTE Energy since this disallowance was previously reserved at the time of the MCN acquisition in 2001. The MPSC disallowed approximately $6 million of certain computer equipment and related depreciation. The MPSC order also disallowed recovery of certain environmental costs related to remediation of manufactured gas plants of approximately $6 million.
Electric Customer Choice Program
Since 2002, Michigan residents and businesses have had the option of participating in the electric Customer Choice program. This program is designed to give all customers added choices and the
 
opportunity to benefit from lower power costs resulting from competition. However, Detroit Edison's rates are regulated by the MPSC, while alternative suppliers can charge market-based rates. This regulation has hindered Detroit Edison's ability to retain customers. In addition, the MPSC has maintained regulated rates for certain groups of customers that exceed the cost of service to those customers. This has resulted in high levels of participation in the electric Customer Choice program by those customers that have the highest rates relative to their cost of service, primarily commercial and industrial businesses. As a result, our margins continue to be affected. To address this issue, we filed a revenue neutral rate restructuring proposal in February 2005 designed to adjust rates for each customer class to be reflective of the full costs incurred to service such customers. Under the proposal, Detroit Edison's commercial and industrial rates would be lowered in 2006, but residential rates would increase over a five-year period beginning in 2007. The number and mix of customers participating in the electric Customer Choice program could be impacted under the rate restructuring.
The financial impact of electric Customer Choice was mitigated by the issuance of electric interim and final rate orders in 2004 that increased base rates, including the recovery of lost margins and transition charges. The final rate order lost margin recovery was based on a 2004 electric Customer Choice volume estimate of 9,245 gWh. The electric Customer Choice volumes in the first quarter of 2005 were 1,722 gWh as compared to 1,975 gWh in the first quarter of 2004. These lower volumes were offset by an increase in higher margin commercial customer participation in the Choice program resulting in an immaterial effect on margins. With current regulation continuing to hinder our ability to retain certain customers, we will continue working with the MPSC to address issues associated with the electric Customer Choice program including the rate restructuring proposal discussed above.
- In 2005, we will focus on maintaining a strong utility base, pursuing a growth strategy focused on value creation in targeted energy markets, maintaining a strong balance sheet and paying an attractive dividend. The impact of the electric and gas rate orders is expected to increase utility earnings in 2005 and 2006 as rate caps expire.
Outlook
Our financial performance will be dependent on successfully redeploying an expected $1.6 billion of cash flow through 2008, primarily associated with proceeds from the sale of interests in synfuel facilities. Our objective for cash redeployment is to strengthen the balance sheet and coverage ratios, as well as replace the value of synfuels that is currently inherent in our share price. We expect to use this cash to reduce parent Company debt. Secondly, we will continue to pursue growth investments that meet our strict risk-return and value creation criteria. Share repurchases will be used to build share value if adequate investment opportunities are not available.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Our earnings for the 2005 first quarter were $122 million, or $.70 per diluted share, compared to earnings of $190 million, or $1.11 per diluted share in the 2004 first quarter. As subsequently discussed, the comparability of earnings was impacted by our discontinued business, Southern Missouri Gas Company. Excluding discontinued operations, our earnings from continuing operations for the 2005 first quarter were $122 million, or $.70 per diluted share, compared to earnings of $197 million, or $1.15 per diluted share in the first quarter 2004. The following sections provide a detailed discussion of our segments operating performance and future outlook.
 We operate our businesses through five strategic business units (Electric Utility, Gas Utility and Power and Industrial Projects, Unconventional Gas Production, Fuel Transportation and Marketing). The balance of our business consisted of Corporate & Other. This resulted in the following reportable segments.
Segment Performance & Outlook
 
ELECTRIC UTILITY
Our Electric Utility segment consists of Detroit Edison. Detroit Edison is engaged in the generation, purchase, distribution and sale of electric energy to 2.1 million customers in southeastern Michigan.
Earnings of $55 million for the 2005 first quarter increased by $11 million as compared to the $44 million earned in the 2004 first quarter. As subsequently discussed, these results primarily reflect higher rates due to the November 2004 MPSC final rate order and lower operation and maintenance expenses, partially offset by increased depreciation and amortization expenses.
Factors impacting income:
 
increased $19 million in the 2005 first quarter. Operating revenues increased primarily due to rate increases as a result of the MPSC final rate order issued in November 2004 and the return of customers who in the comparable 2004 period participated in the Customer Choice program. Detroit Edison lost 13% of retail sales in the 2005 first quarter and 15% of such sales in the 2004 first quarter as a result of Customer Choice penetration. Operating revenues and fuel and purchased power costs increased in the 2005 first quarter compared to the 2004 first quarter reflecting a $3.46 per megawatt hour (MWh) (23%) increase in power cost which is a pass-through with the reinstatement of the PSCR. The increase in power supply cost is driven by higher purchase power rates, higher coal prices and increased power purchases due to the outage at our nuclear facility, Fermi 2, which was offline for 14 days during the 2005 first quarter. Pursuant to the MPSC final rate order, transmission expenses previously recorded in operation and maintenance expenses are now reflected in purchased power expenses. The PSCR mechanism provides related revenues for transmission expenses.
Gross margins
 
expense decreased $22 million in the first quarter of 2005. Pursuant to the MPSC final rate order, merger interest is no longer allocated to Detroit Edison. The 2005 period also experienced lower benefit costs and lower uncollectible accounts receivable expense, partially offset by increased power plant outage expense, higher costs for the funding of low-income customer assistance fund and system reliability expenses.
Operation and maintenance
expense increased $36 million in the first quarter of 2005. The increase reflects the income effect of recording regulatory assets, which lowers depreciation and amortization expenses. The interim and final electric rate orders in 2004 recover PA 141 costs previously deferred as regulatory assets. As a result, the regulatory asset deferrals totaled $13 million in the first quarter of 2005 compared to $42 million in the first quarter of 2004.
Depreciation and amortization
decreased $10 million primarily due to lower interest expense as a result of adjustments due to settlements related to tax audits.
Other income and deductions
 Future operating results are expected to vary as a result of external factors such as regulatory proceedings, new legislation, changes in market prices of power, coal and natural gas, plant performance, changes in economic conditions, weather, the levels of customer participation in the electric Customer Choice program and the severity and frequency of storms
Outlook
As previously discussed, we expect cash flows and operating performance will continue to be at risk due to the electric Customer Choice program until the issues associated with this program are resolved. We have addressed certain issues of the electric Customer Choice program in our revenue neutral February 2005 rate restructuring proposal. We cannot predict the outcome of these matters.
In conjunction with DTE Energy's sale of the transmission assets of International Transmission Company (ITC) in February 2003, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) froze ITC's transmission rates through December 2004. Annual rate adjustments pursuant to a formulistic pricing mechanism will result in an estimated increase in Detroit Edison's transmission expense of $50 million annually, beginning in January 2005. Additionally, in a proceeding before the FERC, several Midwest utilities seek to recover transmission revenues lost as a result of a FERC order modifying the pricing of transmission service in the Midwest. During the first quarter of 2005 Detroit Edison recorded an estimated $9 million of additional expense. Detroit Edison anticipates additional expenses of approximately $1 million per month from April 2005 through March 2006. Detroit Edison is expected to incur an additional $15 million in 2005 for charges related to the implementation of Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator's open market. Detroit Edison received rate orders in 2004 that allow for the recovery of increased transmission expenses through the PSCR mechanism.
See Note 5  Regulatory Matters.
GAS UTILITY
Gas Utility operations include gas distribution services primarily provided by MichCon that purchases, stores, distributes and sells natural gas to 1.2 million residential, commercial and industrial customers located throughout Michigan.
Gas Utility's earnings decreased $58 million. As subsequently discussed, results reflect the impact of the MPSC's April 2005 gas cost recovery and final rate orders and an increase in operation and maintenance expenses.
Factors impacting income:
The MPSC final gas rate order disallowed recovery of 90% of the costs of a computer billing system that was in place prior to DTE Energy's acquisition of MCN Energy in 2001. MichCon impaired this asset by approximately $42 million in the first quarter of 2005. This impairment is not reflected at DTE Energy since this disallowance was previously reserved at the time of the MCN acquisition in 2001.
 
decreased $22 million. In April 2005, the MPSC issued an order in the 2002 GCR reconciliation case that disallowed $26 million representing unbilled revenues at December 2001. We recorded the impact of the disallowance in the first quarter of 2005. The quarter was also impacted by increased expenses associated with lost gas, partially offset by higher base rates as a result of the September 2004 interim gas rate order. Gas sales revenues and volumes in both periods reflect the impact of weather. The first quarter of 2005 was 2% colder than the first quarter of 2004. Operating revenues and cost of gas increased significantly in the 2005 first quarter compared to the 2004 first quarter reflecting higher gas prices which are recoverable from customers through the gas cost recovery (GCR) mechanism. The first quarter of 2005 also benefited by $3 million due to contractually driven adjustments to end user transportation contracts.
Gross margins
expense increased $23 million reflecting higher reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable, increased pension and postretirement benefit costs and the adjustment for certain environmental costs resulting from the April 2005 MPSC final rate order. The increase in uncollectible accounts expense reflects higher past due amounts attributable to an increase in gas prices, continued weak economic conditions and a lack of adequate public assistance for low-income customers.
Operation and maintenance
increased $6 million due to the writeoff of certain computer equipment and related depreciation resulting from the April 2005 final rate order.
Asset Gains and Losses, net
 
increased $5 million primarily due to higher effective tax rate in the 2005 first quarter as compared to the 2004 first quarter, as a result of higher estimated annual earnings for 2005.
Income taxes
 Operating results are expected to vary as a result of external factors such as regulatory proceedings, weather and changes in economic conditions. Higher gas prices and economic conditions have resulted in an increase in past due receivables. We believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is based on reasonable estimates. However, failure to make continued progress in collecting past due receivables would unfavorably affect operating results. Energy assistance programs funded by the federal government and the State of Michigan remain critical to MichCon's ability to control uncollectible accounts receivable expenses. We are working with the State of Michigan and others to increase the share of funding allocated to our customers to be representative of the number of low-income individuals in our service territory. In the April 2005 final gas rate order, the MPSC adopted MichCon's proposed tracking mechanism for uncollectible accounts receivable. Each year, MichCon will file an application comparing its actual uncollectible expense to its designated revenue recovery of approximately $37 million. Ninety percent of the difference will be refunded or surcharged after an annual reconciliation proceeding before the MPSC. See Note 5  Regulatory Matters.
Outlook
NON-UTILITY OPERATIONS
Power and Industrial Projects
Power and Industrial Projects is comprised of Coal-Based Fuels, On-Site Energy Projects, non-utility Power Generation, Biomass and PepTec. Coal-Based Fuels operations include producing synthetic fuel from nine synfuel plants and producing coke from three coke battery plants. The production of synthetic fuel from all of our synfuel plants and the production of coke from one of our coke batteries generate tax credits under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code. On-Site Energy Projects include pulverized coal injection, power generation, steam production, chilled water production, wastewater treatment and compressed air supply. Non-utility Power Generation owns and operates four gas-fired peaking electric generating plants and manages and operates two additional gas-fired power plants under contract. Additionally, non-utility Power Generation develops, operates and acquires coal and gas-fired generation. Biomass develops, owns and operates landfill recovery systems throughout the United States. PepTec uses proprietary technology to produce high quality coal products from fine coal slurries typically discarded from coal mining operations.
: Power and Industrial Projects earnings increased $33 million during the 2005 first quarter. As subsequently discussed, the comparability of results is affected by the gains recognized from selling interests in our synfuel plants and gains on synfuel hedges.
Factors impacting income
 
increased $56 million in the first quarter of 2005, reflecting higher synfuel and coke sales, along with higher market prices for our coke production.
Operating revenues
The improvement in synfuel revenues results from increased production due to sales of project interests in prior periods, reflecting our strategy to produce synfuel primarily from plants in which we had sold interests in order to optimize income and cash flow. As previously discussed, operating expenses associated with synfuel projects exceed operating revenues and therefore generate operating losses, which have been more than offset by the resulting Section 29 tax credits. When we sell an interest in a synfuel project, we recognize the gain from such sale as the facility produces and sells synfuel and when there is persuasive evidence that the sales proceeds have become fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. In substance, we are receiving synfuel gains and reduced operating losses in exchange for tax credits associated with the projects sold.
expense increased $51 million primarily reflecting costs associated with the increased levels of synfuel production.
Operation and maintenance
increased $34 million in the first quarter of 2005. The improvements are due to mark to market gains on derivatives used to economically hedge our cash flow exposure related to the risk of an increase in oil prices. The improvement is also due to additional sales of interests in our synfuel projects resulting in fixed payment-related gains, partially offset by the deferral of variable payment- related gains, as previously discussed. During the first quarter of 2005, we recorded an $82 million pre-tax gain on synfuel sales. The following table displays the various components that comprise the determination of gains recorded in the first quarter of 2005 related to synfuels.
Asset gains and losses, net
 
increased $23 million in 2005, reflecting our partners' share of operating losses associated with synfuel operations. The sale of interests in our synfuel facilities during prior periods resulted in allocating a larger percentage of such losses to our partners.
Minority interest
increased $24 million in 2005, reflecting higher pretax income.
Income taxes
- Power and Industrial Projects will continue leveraging its extensive energy-related operating experience and project management capability to develop and grow the on-site energy business. As a result of executing long-term utility services contracts in 2004, we expect solid earnings from our on-site energy business in 2005. We expect to continue to grow our Biomass and PepTec businesses. Biomass, in conjunction with the Coal Services business, has entered the coal mine methane business. We purchased coal mine methane assets in Illinois at the end of 2004, and expect to reconfigure equipment and restart operations by mid-2005. We believe a substantial market could exist for the use of PepTec's technology. We continue to modify and test this technology.
Outlook
Unconventional Gas Production
Unconventional Gas Production is primarily engaged in natural gas exploration, development and production. Our Unconventional Gas Production business produces gas from proven reserves in northern Michigan and sells the gas to the Fuel Transportation and Marketing segment. The assets of this businesses are well integrated with our other DTE Energy entities.
: Unconventional Gas Production earnings remained consistent with 2004.
Factors impacting income
- We expect to continue developing our gas production properties in northern Michigan and leverage our experience in this area by pursuing investment opportunities in unconventional gas production outside of Michigan. During 2004, we acquired approximately 50,000 leasehold acres in the southern region of the Barnett shale in Texas, an area of increasing production. We began drilling wells in proven areas in December 2004 and anticipate drilling a number of test wells in the first half of 2005. Initial results from the test wells are expected in mid-2005. If the results are successful, we could commit a significant level of capital over the next several years to develop these properties.
Outlook
Fuel Transportation and Marketing
Fuel Transportation and Marketing consists of DTE Energy Trading and CoEnergy, Coal Services and Pipelines, Processing & Gas Storage business. DTE Energy Trading focuses on physical power marketing and structured transactions, as well as the enhancement of returns from DTE Energy's power plants. CoEnergy focuses on physical gas marketing and the optimization of DTE Energy's owned and contracted natural gas pipelines and gas storage capacity. To this end, both companies enter into derivative financial instruments as part of their marketing and hedging strategies, including forwards,
 
futures, swaps and option contracts. Most of the derivative financial instruments are accounted for under the mark to market method, which results in earnings recognition of unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair value of the derivatives. Coal Services provides fuel, transportation and rail equipment management services. We specialize in minimizing fuel costs and maximizing reliability of supply for energy-intensive customers. Additionally, we participate in coal trading and coal-to-power tolling transactions, as well as the purchase and sale of emissions credits. Pipelines, Processing & Storage has a partnership interest in an interstate transmission pipeline, seven carbon dioxide processing facilities and a natural gas storage field, as well as lease rights to another natural gas storage field. The assets of these businesses are well integrated with other DTE Energy entities.
: Fuel Transportation and Marketing earnings decreased $71 million in the first quarter of 2005, primarily as a result of a $74 million one-time pre-tax gain from a contract modification/termination recorded in 2004 and a 2005 mark to market loss on derivative contracts used to economically hedge our gas in storage.
Factors impacting income
increased $11 million in the first quarter of 2005. Coal Services experienced increased revenues due to increased business volume, while our trading operations experienced decreased revenue due to an adjustment in 2004 that increased revenue by $86 million related to the modification of a future purchase commitment under a transportation agreement with an interstate pipeline company (Note 4).
Operating revenues
increased $39 million in the first quarter of 2005. During the first quarter of 2005, expenses were negatively impacted by the economically favorable decision to delay previously planned withdrawals from gas storage due to a decrease in the current price for gas and an increase in the forward price for natural gas. We anticipate the financial impact of this timing difference will reverse when the gas is withdrawn from storage in the next storage cycle. In 2004, our trading operation recorded a gas inventory adjustment that increased expense by $12 million related to the termination of a long-term gas exchange (storage) agreement with an interstate pipeline company. Under the gas exchange agreement, we received gas from the customer during the summer injection period and redelivered the gas during the winter heating season (Note 4).
Fuel, purchased power and gas
increased $82 million in the first quarter of 2005 primarily as a result of increased coal purchases due to increased sales at Coal Services.
Operation and maintenance expenses
decreased $38 million in the first quarter of 2005 due to decreased operating income.
Income Tax Provision
 We expect to continue to grow our Coal Services and Fuel Transportation and Marketing business where we will seek to manage its business in a manner consistent with, and complementary to, the growth of our other business segments. Gas storage and transportation capacity enhances our ability to provide reliable and custom-tailored bundled services to large-volume end users and utilities. This
Outlook
 
capacity, coupled with the synergies from DTE Energy's other businesses, positions the segment to add value.
Significant portions of the Fuel Transportation and Marketing portfolio are economically hedged. The portfolio includes financial instruments and gas inventory, as well as owned and contracted natural gas pipelines and storage assets. The financial instruments are deemed derivatives, whereas the gas inventory, pipelines and storage assets are not considered derivatives for accounting purposes. As a result, Fuel Transportation and Marketing will experience earnings volatility as derivatives are marked to market without revaluing the underlying non-derivative contracts and assets. The majority of such earnings volatility is associated with the natural gas storage cycle, which runs annually from April of one year to March of the next year. Our strategy is to economically hedge the price risk of all gas purchases for storage with sales in the over-the-counter (forwards) and futures markets. Current accounting rules require the marking to market of forward sales and futures, but do not allow for the marking to market of the related gas inventory. This results in gains and losses that are recognized in different interim and annual accounting periods. We anticipate the financial impact of this timing difference will reverse by the end of each storage cycle. See "Fair Value of Contracts" section that follows.
We anticipate further expansion of our storage facilities and Vector pipeline to take advantage of available growth opportunities. We are also seeking to secure markets for our 10.5% interest in the proposed Millennium Pipeline.
CORPORATE & OTHER
Corporate & Other includes various corporate support functions such as accounting, legal and information technology. As these functions essentially support the entire Company, their costs are fully allocated to the various segments based on services utilized and therefore the effect of the allocation on each segment can vary from year to year. Additionally, Corporate & Other holds certain non-utility debt and investments, including assets held for sale and in emerging energy technologies. These investments include DTE Energy Technologies, which assembles, markets, distributes and services distributed generation products, provides application engineering, and monitors and manages on-site generation system operations.
: Corporate & Other's losses decreased $10 million in the 2005 first quarter. The first quarter of 2005 included favorable tax adjustments due to settlements related to tax audits. Additionally, results reflect adjustments in both years to normalize the effective income tax rate. There was a $6 million favorable adjustment in the 2005 first quarter compared to a $6 million unfavorable adjustment in the 2004 first quarter. Corporate & Other records necessary adjustments in order that the consolidated income tax expense during the quarter reflects the estimated calendar year effective rate. The favorability related to income taxes was partially offset by non-allocated merger interest pursuant to the November 2004 MPSC final electric rate order.
Factors impacting income
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
- We own SMGC, a public utility engaged in the distribution, transmission and sale of natural gas in southern Missouri. In 2004, management approved the marketing of SMGC for sale. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we classified SMGC as a discontinued operation in 2004 and recognized a net of tax impairment loss of approximately $7 million, representing the write-down to fair value of the assets of SMGC, less costs to sell, and the write-off of allocated goodwill. In November 2004, we entered into a definitive agreement providing for the sale of SMGC. Regulatory approval was received in April 2005 and it is anticipated that the transaction will close in the second quarter of 2005.
Southern Missouri Gas Company (SMGC)
See Note 3 for further discussion.
 
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
Operating Activities
We use cash derived from operating activities to maintain and expand our electric and gas utilities and to grow our non-utility businesses. In addition, we use cash from operations to retire long-term debt and pay dividends. A majority of the Company's operating cash flow is provided by the two regulated utilities, which are significantly influenced by factors such as power supply cost and gas cost recovery proceedings, weather, electric Customer Choice sales loss, regulatory deferrals, regulatory outcomes, economic conditions and operating costs. Our non-utility businesses also provide sources of cash flow to the enterprise and reflect a range of operating profiles. These profiles vary from our synthetic fuel business, which we believe will provide substantial cash flow through 2008, to new start-ups, new investments and expansion of existing businesses. These new start-ups include our unconventional gas and waste coal recovery businesses, which we are growing and, if successful, could require significant investment.
Although DTE Energy's overall earnings were down $68 million or 36% in the 2005 first quarter, cash from operations totaling $413 million, was up $133 million or 48% from the comparable 2004 period. The operating cash flow comparison reflects a decrease of $248 million in working capital and other requirements, partially offset by a decrease of $115 million in net income, after adjusting for non-cash items (depreciation, depletion, amortization, deferred taxes and gains). Working capital requirements
 
during the 2004 period were higher due primarily to income tax payments made as a result of certain 2003 transactions, including the divestiture of ITC.
 We expect cash flow from operations to increase over the long-term, including a rise of $100 million to $150 million for the full year 2005 over 2004. Cash flow improvements from utility rate increases and the sale of interests in our synfuel projects, will be partially offset by higher cash requirements on environmental and other utility capital as well as growth investments in our non-utility portfolio. We are continuing our efforts to identify opportunities to improve cash flow through working capital improvement initiatives.
Outlook
Assuming no synfuel tax credit phase out in this or future years, we expect cash flow from our synfuel business to total approximately $1.6 billion between 2005 and 2008. We have protected from risk of loss approximately 70%-75% of the expected 2005 synfuel cash flow of approximately $420 million through the purchase of option contracts, the use of prior year tax credits and cash payments received to date. Assuming no synfuel tax credit phase-out in 2005, we have protected from risk of loss approximately 55% of the expected 2006 synfuel cash flow of approximately $490 million through the purchase of option contracts and the use of prior year tax credits. The redeployment of this cash represents a unique opportunity to increase shareholder value and strengthen our balance sheet. We expect to use this cash to reduce parent company debt, to continue to pursue growth investments that meet our strict risk-return and value creation criteria and to potentially repurchase common stock if adequate investment opportunities are not available. Our objectives for cash redeployment are to strengthen the balance sheet and coverage ratios to improve our current credit ratings and outlook, and to more than replace the value of synfuels.
Investing Activities
Cash inflows associated with investing activities are partially generated from the sale of assets and are utilized to invest in our utility and non-utility businesses. In any given year, we will attempt to harvest cash from under performing or non-strategic assets. Capital spending within the utility business is primarily to maintain our generation and distribution infrastructure and comply with environmental regulations. Capital spending within our non-utility businesses is for ongoing maintenance, expansion and growth. Growth spending is managed very carefully. We seek investments that meet strict criteria in terms of strategy, management skills, risks and returns. All new investments are analyzed for their rates of return and cash payback on a risk adjusted basis.
Net cash outflows for investing activities increased $18 million in the 2005 first quarter as compared to the same 2004 period primarily due to fewer asset sales in 2005. Also affecting the comparison was higher utility and non-utility plant expenditures in the 2005 first quarter offset by higher synfuel proceeds.
Capital expenditures during the 2005 first quarter were $198 million. This represents a $19 million increase from the comparable 2004 period and was driven by spending on our electric distribution infrastructure and on DTE2, our Company-wide initiative to improve existing processes and implement new core information systems.
 Our strategic direction anticipates base level capital investments and expenditures for existing businesses in 2005 of up to $1.1 billion. The approximately $200 million increase over 2004 is primarily due to environmental spending requirements and our DTE2 investment, mitigated by lower base spending within our non-utility businesses. As previously mentioned, our strategy is to re-deploy cash generated by our synfuel monetization activities. As opportunities become available, we may make additional growth investments beyond our base level of capital expenditures.
Outlook
We believe that we will have sufficient capital resources, both internal and external, to fund anticipated capital requirements.
Financing Activities
We rely on both short-term borrowings and longer- term financings as a source of funding for our capital requirements not satisfied by the Company's operations. Our strategy is to have a targeted debt portfolio
 
blend as to fixed and variable interest rates and maturities. We continually evaluate our leverage target, which is currently 50% or lower, to ensure it is consistent with our objective to have a strong investment grade debt rating.
Net cash used for financing activities increased $121 million during the 2005 first quarter, compared to the same 2004 period, due mostly to a reduction in short-term debt issuances.
During the 2005 first quarter, Detroit Edison issued senior notes totaling $400 million. Proceeds from this issuance were primarily used to call $385 million quarterly income debt securities (QUIDS), which will save approximately $9 million annually in interest expense.
Additionally, Detroit Edison redeemed $176 million of other long-term notes during the first quarter 2005. See Note 7.
 Our goal is to maintain a healthy balance sheet. We will continually evaluate our debt portfolio and take advantage of favorable refinancing opportunities .
Outlook
MichCon currently has an $81.25 million, three-year unsecured credit agreement originally entered into in October 2003, and a $243.75 million, five-year unsecured revolving credit facility entered into in October 2004. These credit facilities are with a syndicate of banks and may be utilized for general corporate borrowings, but primarily are intended to provide liquidity support for our commercial paper program. This credit facility facilitates short-term borrowing primarily for seasonal needs to buy gas in the summer for use in the winter heating season. In the last twelve months, the peak borrowing for this facility was $324.8 million. Borrowings under the facilities are available at prevailing short-term interest rates. Among other things, the agreements require MichCon to maintain an "earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization" (EBITDA) to interest ratio of no less than 2 to 1 for each twelve-month period ending on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year.
As a result of the non-recurring accounting adjustments that were required due to the MPSC gas rate orders issued on April 28, 2005, MichCon did not meet the EBITDA to interest ratio at March 31, 2005. The lenders have agreed to amend the credit facilities to exclude the EBITDA to interest ratio for the first quarter of 2005. If lenders had not amended the credit facility, MichCon's access to the commercial paper markets would be limited. At March 31, 2005 and the date of the amendments, MichCon does not have any indebtedness under the credit facilities or any commercial paper outstanding.
We plan to seek rehearing of the MPSC orders to improve the resulting underlying cash flows at MichCon. If unsuccessful in rehearing, MichCon may file a follow on rate case in 2005. In addition, we may seek further amendments to the EBITDA to interest ratio for future periods. If MichCon experiences diminished ability to access the short-term and/or long-term capital markets, it would have to seek additional sources of liquidity. This may have a material negative impact on MichCon's financial position and significantly harm the operation of that business. We believe that we will have sufficient internal and external capital resources to manage liquidity and to fund anticipated capital requirements.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Goodwill
Certain of our business units have goodwill resulting from purchase business combinations. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, "" each of our reporting units with goodwill is required to perform impairment tests annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the value of goodwill may be impaired. In order to perform these impairment tests, we must determine the reporting unit's fair value using valuation techniques, which use estimates of discounted future cash flows to be generated by the reporting unit. These cash flow valuations involve a number of estimates that require broad assumptions and significant judgment by management regarding future performance. To the extent estimated cash flows are revised downward, the reporting unit may be required to write down all or a portion of its goodwill, which would adversely impact our earnings.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,
 
As of March 31, 2005, our goodwill totaled $2.1 billion. The majority of our goodwill is allocated to our utility reporting units, with approximately $772 million allocated to the Gas Utility reporting unit. The value of the utility reporting units may be significantly impacted by rate orders and the regulatory environment. The Gas Utility reporting unit is comprised primarily of MichCon. We made certain cash flow assumptions for MichCon that were dependent upon the outcome of the gas rate case (Note 5). Based on our 2004 annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the fair value of our reporting units exceed their carrying value and no impairment of goodwill existed.
We have received the MPSC final order in the gas rate case in late April 2005, but have yet to fully evaluate the impact of the order on our valuation assumptions and the carrying value of the related goodwill for our Gas Utility reporting unit. We have determined that the fair value approximates the carrying value and we expect to complete this analysis in the second quarter of 2005, and any significant changes in our valuation assumptions could result in an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill for this reporting unit.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ozone transport and acid rain regulations and final new air quality standards relating to ozone and particulate air pollution continue to impact us. In March 2005, the EPA issued interstate air and mercury rules. The interstate air rule requires a 70 percent reduction in annual emissions of nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide by 2015. The mercury rule represents the first national regulation of power plant mercury emissions and expects to achieve a 70 percent reduction when fully implemented in 2018. Detroit Edison estimates that it will spend up to $100 million in 2005 and up to an additional $1.8 billion of future capital expenditures through 2018 to satisfy both existing and new control requirements. Under PA 141 and the MPSC's November 2004 final rate order, we believe that prudently incurred capital expenditures, in excess of current depreciation levels, are recoverable in rates.
DTE2
In 2003, we began the implementation of DTE2, a Company-wide initiative to improve existing processes and to implement new core information systems including, finance, human resources, supply chain and work management. As part of this initiative, we intend to implement Enterprise Business Systems software including, among others, products developed by SAP AG and MRO Software, Inc. This implementation should commence in the third quarter of 2005 and will likely continue at minimum through 2007. The conversion of data and the implementation and operation of SAP will be continuously monitored and reviewed and should ultimately strengthen the internal control structure.
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
See Note 2 New Accounting Pronouncements for discussion of new pronouncements.
FAIR VALUE OF CONTRACTS
The following disclosures are voluntary and we believe provide enhanced transparency of the derivative activities and position of our Fuel Transportation and Marketing segment and our other businesses.
We use the criteria in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, as amended and interpreted, to determine if certain contracts must be accounted for as derivative instruments. The rules for determining whether a contract meets the criteria for derivative accounting are numerous and complex. Moreover, significant judgment is required to determine whether a contract requires derivative accounting, and similar contracts can sometimes be accounted for differently. If a contract is accounted for as a derivative instrument, it is recorded in the
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,"
 
financial statements as Assets or Liabilities from Risk Management and Trading Activity, at the fair value of the contract. The recorded fair value of the contract is then adjusted quarterly to reflect any change in the fair value of the contract, a practice known as mark to market (MTM) accounting.
Fair value represents the amount at which willing parties would transact an arms-length transaction. To determine the fair value of contracts that are accounted for as derivative instruments, we use a combination of quoted market prices and mathematical valuation models. Valuation models require various inputs, including forward prices, volatility, interest rates, and exercise periods.
Contracts we typically classify as derivative instruments are power and gas forwards, futures, options and swaps, as well as foreign currency contracts. Items we do not generally account for as derivatives (and which are therefore excluded from the following tables) include gas inventory, gas storage and transportation arrangements, full-requirements power contracts and gas and oil reserves. As subsequently discussed, we have fully reserved the value of derivative contracts beyond the liquid trading timeframe and which therefore do not impact income.
The subsequent tables contain the following four categories represented by their operating characteristics and key risks.
 
Roll-Forward of Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets
The following tables provide details on changes in our MTM net asset or (liability) position during 2005:
The following table provides a current and noncurrent analysis of Assets and Liabilities from Risk Management and Trading Activities as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of March 31, 2005. Amounts that relate to contracts that become due within twelve months are classified as current and all remaining amounts are classified as noncurrent.
Maturity of Fair Value of MTM Energy Contract Net Assets
We fully reserve all unrealized gains and losses related to periods beyond the liquid trading timeframe. Our intent is to recognize MTM activity only when pricing data is obtained from active quotes and published indexes. Actively quoted and published indexes include exchange traded (i.e., NYMEX) and over-the-counter (OTC) positions for which broker quotes are available. The NYMEX has currently quoted prices for the next 72 months. Although broker quotes for gas and power are generally available for 18 and 24 months into the future, respectively, we fully reserve all unrealized gains and losses related to periods beyond the liquid trading timeframe and which therefore do not impact income.
 
The table below shows the maturity of our MTM positions:
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Commodity Price Risk
DTE Energy has commodity price risk arising from market price fluctuations in conjunction with the anticipated purchase of electricity to meet its obligations during periods of peak demand. We also are exposed to the risk of market price fluctuations on gas sale and purchase contracts, gas production and gas inventories. To limit our exposure to commodity price fluctuations, we have entered into a series of electricity and gas futures, forwards, option and swap contracts. Commodity price risk associated with our electric and gas utilities is limited due to the PSCR and GCR mechanisms.
Our synfuel and biomass businesses are also subject to crude oil price risk. As previously discussed, the Section 29 tax credits generated by DTE Energy's synfuel and biomass operations are subject to phase out if domestic crude oil prices reach certain levels. We have entered into a series of derivative contracts for 2005 and 2006 to economically hedge the impact of oil prices on our synfuel cash flow.
Credit Risk
Bankruptcies
We purchase and sell electricity, gas, coal, coke and other energy products from and to numerous companies operating in the steel, automotive, energy, retail and other industries. A number of customers have filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We have negotiated or are currently involved in negotiations with each of the companies, or their successor companies, that have filed for bankruptcy protection. We regularly review contingent matters relating to purchase and sale contracts and record provisions for amounts considered at risk of probable loss. We believe our accrued amounts are adequate for probable losses. The final resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material effect on our financial statements in the period they are resolved.
Other
We engage in business with customers that are non-investment grade. We closely monitor the credit ratings of these customers and, when deemed necessary, we request collateral or guarantees from such customers to secure their obligations.
Interest Rate Risk
DTE Energy is subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of debt and preferred securities. In order to manage interest costs, we use treasury locks and interest rate swap agreements. Our exposure
 
to interest rate risk arises primarily from changes in U.S. Treasury rates, commercial paper rates and London Inter-Bank Offered Rates (LIBOR). As of March 31, 2005, the Company had a floating rate debt to total debt ratio of approximately 11% (excluding securitized debt).
Foreign Currency Risk
DTE Energy has foreign currency exchange risk arising from market price fluctuations associated with fixed priced contracts. These contracts are denominated in Canadian dollars and are primarily for the purchase and sale of power as well as for long-term transportation capacity. To limit our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, we have entered into a series of currency forward contracts through 2008.
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
We performed a sensitivity analysis to calculate the fair values of our commodity contracts, long-term debt instruments and foreign currency forward contracts. The sensitivity analysis involved increasing and decreasing forward rates at March 31, 2005 by a hypothetical 10% and calculating the resulting change in the fair values of the commodity, debt and foreign currency agreements. The results of the sensitivity analysis calculations follow:

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1  GENERAL
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the notes to consolidated financial statements included in the 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements are prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These accounting principles require us to use estimates and assumptions that impact the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from our estimates.
The consolidated financial statements are unaudited, but in our opinion include all adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods. Financial results for this interim period are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the fiscal year.
Prior to December 2004, DTE Energy did not eliminate amounts, principally within Other Income and Other Deductions, resulting from certain intercompany transactions. The amounts of the transactions are immaterial and had no effect on net income. Previously reported prior period amounts have been adjusted to eliminate those intercompany transactions and are now consistent with the current year's presentation. We reclassified certain other prior year balances to match the current year's financial statement presentation.
References in this report to "we," "us," "our" or "Company" are to DTE Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively.
Gains from Sale of Interests in Synthetic Fuel Facilities
Through March 31, 2005, we have sold interests in eight of our nine synthetic fuel production plants, representing approximately 88% of our total production capacity. Proceeds from the sales are contingent upon production levels and the value of Section 29 tax credits. Section 29 tax credits are subject to phase out if domestic crude oil prices reach certain levels. See Note 9 for further discussion. We recognize gains from the sale of interests in the synfuel facilities as synfuel is produced and sold, and when there is persuasive evidence that the sales proceeds have become fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. We recorded $82 million in gains in the first quarter of 2005 from the sale of interests in synthetic fuel facilities compared to $49 million in the first quarter 2004.
The gain from the sale of synfuel facilities is comprised of fixed and variable components. The fixed component represents note payments of principal and interest, is not subject to refund, and is recognized as a gain when earned and collectability is assured. The variable component includes an estimate of tax credits allocated to our partners, is subject to refund based on the annual oil price phase out, and is recognized as a gain only when probability of refund is considered remote and collectability is assured. Additionally, based on estimates of tax credits allocated, our partners reimburse us (through the project entity) for the operating losses of the synfuel facilities. This amount is subject to refund based on the annual oil price phase out. To assess the probability of refund, we use valuation and analyst models that calculate the probability of surpassing the estimated lower band of the phase-out range for the Reference Price of oil for the year. Due to the rise in oil prices, there is a possibility that the Reference Price of oil could reach the threshold at which Section 29 tax credits phase out. While we believe the possibility of phase out is unlikely, we have not met the strict accounting gain recognition criteria that would allow us to recognize the gains on the variable component. During the first quarter of 2005, we deferred $41 million pretax of the variable component of synfuel-related gains for the potential phase-out of synfuel tax credits. All or a portion of the deferred gains will be recognized when and if the gain recognition criteria is met. It is possible that additional gains will be deferred in the second and/or third quarters until there is persuasive evidence that no tax credit phase out will occur. This will result in shifting earnings from earlier quarters to later quarters.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
We have a stock-based employee compensation plan. The plan permits the awarding of various stock awards, including options, restricted stock and performance shares. We account for stock awards under the plan under the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "." No compensation cost related to stock options is reflected in earnings, as all options granted had an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. The recognition provisions under SFAS No. 123, "," require the recording of compensation expense for stock options equal to their fair value at date of grant as determined using an option pricing model. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if we had recorded compensation expense for options granted under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123.
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
A detailed analysis of the changes in assets and liabilities that are reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows follows:
 
 
 
Supplementary cash and non-cash information follows:
 
 
Asset Retirement Obligations
SFAS No. 143, "" requires that the fair value of an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which it is incurred. We identified a legal retirement obligation for the decommissioning costs for our Fermi 1 and Fermi 2 nuclear plants. To a lesser extent, we have retirement obligations for our synthetic fuel operations, gas production facilities, asphalt plant, gas gathering facilities and various other operations. As to regulated operations, we believe that adoption of SFAS No. 143 results primarily in timing differences in the recognition of legal asset retirement costs that we are currently recovering in rates and will be deferring such differences under SFAS No. 71, "."
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,
Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation
A reconciliation of the asset retirement obligation for the 2005 three-month period follows:
 
A significant portion of the asset retirement obligations represents nuclear decommissioning liabilities which are funded through a surcharge to electric customers over the life of the Fermi 2 nuclear plant.
Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets
The components of net periodic benefit costs for qualified and non-qualified pension benefits and other postretirement benefits follow:
 
 
 
Gas in Inventory
Gas inventory at MichCon is priced on a last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis. In anticipation that interim inventory reductions will be replaced prior to year end, the cost of gas of net withdrawals from inventory is recorded at the estimated average purchase rate for the calendar year. The excess of these charges over the LIFO cost is credited to the gas inventory equalization account. During interim periods when there are net injections to inventory, the equalization account is reversed.
NOTE 2  NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Medicare Act Accounting
In May 2004, FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. 106-2, "," was issued on accounting for the effects of the Medicare Act. In the second quarter of 2004, we adopted FSP No. 106-2, retroactive to January 1, 2004 and as a result earnings for the first quarter of 2004 have been restated. As a result of the adoption, our accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for the subsidy related to benefits attributed to past service was reduced by approximately $95 million and was accounted for as an actuarial gain. The effects of the subsidy reduced net postretirement costs by $4 million in the first quarter of 2004.
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003
Stock Based Payments
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123-R, "" which established the accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges equity instruments for goods or services. SFAS No. 123-R was effective for interim or annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005 with earlier adoption encouraged. In April 2005, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission delayed the effective date by requiring implementation beginning in the next fiscal year that begins after June 15, 2005. We have completed a preliminary review and based on historical levels of stock based payments we estimate that the new standard will reduce reported earnings by approximately $5 million to $10 million per year.
Stock Based Payments,
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations
In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 47 (FIN 47), "FIN 47 seeks to clarify the requirement to record liabilities stemming from a legal obligation to perform asset retirement activities on fixed assets when that retirement is conditioned on a future event. FIN 47 is effective no later than the end of fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The Company is currently assessing the effects of this interpretation, and has not yet determined the impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143."
NOTE 3  DISPOSITIONS
Southern Missouri Gas Company  Discontinued Operation
We own Southern Missouri Gas Company (SMGC), a public utility engaged in the distribution, transmission and sale of natural gas in southern Missouri. In the first quarter of 2004, management approved the marketing of SMGC for sale. As of March 31, 2004, SMGC met the SFAS No. 144 criteria of an asset "held for sale," and we have reported its operating results as a discontinued operation. We recognized a net of tax impairment loss of approximately $7 million in 2004, representing the write-down to fair value of the assets of SMGC, less costs to sell, and the write-off of allocated goodwill. In November 2004, we entered into a definitive agreement providing for the sale of SMGC. Regulatory approval was received in April 2005 and it is anticipated that the transaction will close in the second quarter of 2005. SMGC had assets of $9 million and liabilities of $35 million at December 31, 2004.
 
NOTE 4  CONTRACT MODIFICATION/TERMINATION
In February 2004, we modified our future purchase commitments under a transportation agreement with an interstate pipeline company and terminated a related long-term gas exchange (storage) agreement, effective March 31, 2004. Under the gas exchange agreement, we received gas from the customer during the summer injection period and redelivered the gas during the winter heating season. The agreements were at rates that were not reflective of current market conditions and had been fair valued under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. In 2002, the fair value of the transportation agreement was frozen when it no longer met the definition of a derivative as a result of FERC Order 637. The fair value amounts were being amortized to income over the life of the related agreements, representing a net liability of approximately $75 million as of December 31, 2003. As a result of the contract modification and termination, we recorded an adjustment to the net liability increasing earnings in the 2004 first quarter by $48 million, net of taxes.
NOTE 5  REGULATORY MATTERS
Electric Rate Restructuring Proposal
On February 4, 2005, Detroit Edison filed a rate restructuring proposal with the MPSC to restructure its electric rates and begin phasing out subsidies that are part of its current pricing structure. The proposal would adjust rates for each customer class to be reflective of the full costs incurred to service such customers. Under the proposal, commercial and industrial rates would be lowered, but residential rates would increase over a five-year period beginning in 2007. The MPSC anticipates that this proceeding will be completed in time to have new rates in effect no later than January 1, 2006.
Other Postretirement Benefits Costs Tracker
On February 10, 2005, Detroit Edison filed an application, pursuant to the MPSC's November 2004 final rate order, requesting MPSC approval of a proposed tracking mechanism for retiree health care costs. This mechanism would recognize differences between cost levels collected in rates and the actual costs under current accounting rules as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities with an annual reconciliation proceeding before the MPSC.
2004 PSCR Reconciliation and 2004 Net Stranded Cost Case
In accordance with the MPSC's direction in the Detroit Edison's November 2004 final rate order, on March 31, 2005, Detroit Edison filed a joint application and testimony in its 2004 PSCR Reconciliation Case and its 2004 Net Stranded Cost Recovery Case. The combined proceeding will provide a comprehensive true-up of the 2004 PSCR and production fixed cost stranded cost calculations, including treatment of the Company's third party wholesale sales revenues. In the filing, Detroit Edison recommended the following distribution of the $218 million of third party wholesale sale revenues; $91 million to offset PSCR fuel expense, $74 million to offset 2004 production operation and maintenance expense, $40 million to offset 2004 PSCR expense and $13 million to offset 2004 production fixed cost stranded costs. Based upon this allocation of third party wholesale sales revenues, Detroit Edison recommends the return of approximately $8 million in over-collections to its PSCR customers and the recovery of approximately $99 million in net stranded costs from its electric Customer Choice customers. Included with the application was the filing of a motion for a temporary interim order requesting the continuation of the existing electric Customer Choice transition charges until a final order is issued.
DTE2 Accounting Application
In 2003, we began the implementation of DTE2, a Company-wide initiative to improve existing processes and to implement new core information systems, including finance, human resources, supply chain and work management. The new information systems are replacing systems that are approaching the end of
 
their useful lives. We expect the benefits of DTE2 to include lower costs, faster business cycles, repeatable and optimized processes, enhanced internal controls, improvements in inventory management and reductions in system support costs.
In July 2004, Detroit Edison filed an accounting application with the MPSC requesting authority to capitalize and amortize DTE2 costs, consisting of computer equipment, software and development costs, as well as related training, maintenance and overhead costs. In March 2005, a settlement agreement was reached with all parties to this proceeding providing for the deferral of up to $60 million of certain DTE2 costs that would otherwise be expensed, as a regulatory asset for future rate recovery starting January 1, 2006. In addition, DTE2 costs recorded as plant assets will be amortized over a 15-year period. In April 2005, the MPSC approved the settlement agreement.
Power Supply Recovery Proceedings
 In September 2004, Detroit Edison filed its 2005 PSCR plan case seeking approval of a levelized PSCR factor of 1.82 mills per kWh above the amount included in base rates. In December 2004, Detroit Edison filed revisions to its 2005 PSCR plan case in accordance with the November 2004 MPSC rate order. The revised filing seeks approval of a levelized PSCR factor of up to 0.48 mills per kWh above the new base rates established in the final electric rate order. Included in the factor are power supply costs, transmission expenses and NOx emission allowance costs. Detroit Edison self-implemented a factor of a negative 2.00 mills per kWh on January 1, 2005. At March 31, 2005, Detroit Edison has recorded an under-recovery of approximately $14 million related to the 2005 plan year. The Michigan Attorney General has filed a motion for summary disposition of this proceeding based on arguments that the PSCR statute requires a fixed 48-month PSCR factor. We cannot predict the nature or timing of actions the MPSC will take on this motion.
2005 Plan Year
Gas Rate Case
In September 2003, MichCon filed an application with the MPSC for an increase in service and distribution charges (base rates) for its gas sales and transportation customers. The filing requested an overall increase in base rates of $194 million per year beginning January 1, 2005. MichCon requested that the MPSC increase base rates by $154 million per year on an interim basis by April 1, 2004. The final rate request was subsequently revised to $159 million.
Rate Request 
 On April 28, 2005, the MPSC issued an order for final rate relief. The MPSC determined that the base rate increase granted to MichCon should be $61 million annually effective April 29, 2005. This amount is an increase of $26 million over the $35 million in interim rate relief approved in September 2004. The rate increase was based on a 50% debt and 50% equity capital structure and an 11% rate of return on common equity.
MPSC Final Rate Order
The MPSC adopted MichCon's proposed tracking mechanism for uncollectible accounts receivable. Each year, MichCon will file an application comparing its actual uncollectible expense to its designated revenue recovery of approximately $37 million. Ninety percent of the difference will be refunded or surcharged after an annual reconciliation proceeding before the MPSC. The MPSC also approved the deferral of the non-capitalized portion of the negative pension expense. MichCon will record a regulatory liability in its financial statements for any negative pension costs as determined under generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, the MPSC approved a one-way tracker which provided for $25 million which is refundable in the event that the funds are not expended for safety and training operation and maintenance expenses.
The MPSC order reduces MichCon's depreciation rates, and the related revenue requirement associated with depreciation expense by $14.5 million with no impact on net income.
The MPSC did not allow the recovery of approximately $25 million of costs allocated to MichCon that were incurred by DTE Energy as a result of the acquisition of MCN Energy.
 
The MPSC order also resulted in the disallowance of computer system and equipment costs and adjustments to environmental regulatory assets and liabilities. The MPSC disallowed recovery of 90% of the costs of a computer billing system that was in place prior to DTE Energy's acquisition of MCN Energy in 2001. MichCon impaired this asset by approximately $42 million in the first quarter of 2005. This impairment is not reflected at DTE Energy since this disallowance was previously reserved at the time of the MCN acquisition in 2001. The MPSC disallowed approximately $6 million of certain computer equipment and related depreciation. The MPSC order also disallowed recovery of certain internal labor and legal costs related to remediation of manufactured gas plants of approximately $6 million.
Gas Cost Recovery Proceedings
 In December 2001, the MPSC issued an order that permitted MichCon to implement GCR factors up to $3.62 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) for January 2002 billings and up to $4.38 per Mcf for the remainder of 2002. The order also allowed MichCon to recognize a regulatory asset representing the difference between the $4.38 factor and the $3.62 factor for volumes that were unbilled at December 31, 2001. The regulatory asset was subject to the 2002 GCR reconciliation process. In March 2003, the MPSC issued an order in MichCon's 2002 GCR plan case. The MPSC ordered MichCon to reduce its gas cost recovery expenses by $26.5 million for purposes of calculating the 2002 GCR factor due to MichCon's decision to utilize storage gas during 2001 that resulted in a gas inventory decrement for the 2001 calendar year. We recorded a $26.5 million reserve in 2003 to reflect the impact of this order.
2002 Plan Year
MichCon's 2002 GCR reconciliation case was filed with the MPSC in February 2003. The Staff and various intervening parties in this proceeding sought to have the MPSC disallow an additional $26 million, representing unbilled revenues at December 2001. One party also proposed the disallowance of half of an $8 million payment made to settle Enron bankruptcy issues. The other parties to the case recommended that the Enron bankruptcy settlement be addressed in the 2003 GCR reconciliation case. In April 2005, the MPSC issued an order in the 2002 GCR reconciliation case affirming the order in the 2002 GCR plan case disallowing $26.5 million related to the use of storage gas in 2001. The April 2005 order also disallowed the additional $26 million representing unbilled revenues at December 2001. We recorded the impact of the disallowance in the first quarter of 2005. The MPSC agreed that the $8 million related to the Enron issue be addressed in the 2003 GCR reconciliation case. MichCon included this item in testimony in the 2003 GCR reconciliation filed in February 2004 and the Staff has recommended that MichCon be allowed to recover the entire $8 million related to the Enron issue.
In December 2004, MichCon filed its 2005-2006 GCR plan case proposing a maximum GCR factor of $7.99 per Mcf. The plan includes quarterly contingent GCR factors. These contingent factors allow MichCon to increase the maximum GCR factor to compensate for increases in market prices, thereby reducing the possibility of a GCR under-recovery. In April 2005, the MPSC issued an order recognizing that Michigan law allows MichCon to self-implement its quarterly contingent factors. Approval of the contingent factors will be determined in the MPSC's final order in this case.
2005-2006 Plan Year 
Other
We are unable to predict the outcome of the regulatory matters discussed herein. Resolution of these matters is dependent upon future MPSC orders, which may materially impact the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company.
NOTE 6  EARNINGS PER SHARE
We report both basic and diluted earnings per share. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income from continuing operations by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share assumes the issuance of potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the period and the repurchase of common shares that would have occurred with proceeds from the assumed issuance. Diluted earnings per share assume the exercise of stock options,
 
vesting of non-vested stock awards, and the issuance of performance share awards. A reconciliation of both calculations is presented in the following table:
 
 
Options to purchase approximately 100,000 shares of common stock in 2005, and one million shares of common stock in 2004, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares, thus making these options anti-dilutive.
NOTE 7  LONG-TERM DEBT
In February 2005, Detroit Edison issued $400 million of senior notes in two series, $200 million of 4.8% series due 2015 and $200 million of 5.45% series due 2035. The proceeds were used to redeem the $385 million of 7.5% Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2026 to 2028.
Also in February 2005, Detroit Edison redeemed $76 million of 7.5% senior notes and $100 million of 7.0% remarketed secured notes, which matured February 2005.
NOTE 8 
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
Commodity Price Risk
Our Energy Services and Biomass businesses generate Section 29 tax credits. Additionally, through December 2004, Energy Services has sold interests in eight of its nine synthetic fuel production plants. Proceeds from the sales are contingent upon production levels, the production qualifying for Section 29 tax credits, and the value of such credits. Section 29 tax credits are subject to phase out if domestic crude oil prices reach certain levels. See Note 9 for further discussion.
To manage our exposure in 2005 and 2006 to the risk of an increase in oil prices that could reduce synfuel sales proceeds, we entered into a series of derivative contracts covering a specified number of barrels of oil. The derivative contracts involve purchased and written call options that provide for net cash settlement at expiration based on the full years 2005 and 2006 average New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) trading prices of oil in relation to the strike prices of each option. If the average NYMEX prices of oil in 2005 and 2006 are less than approximately $56 per barrel, the derivatives will yield no payment. If the average NYMEX prices of oil exceed approximately $56 per barrel, the derivatives will yield a payment equal to the excess of the average NYMEX price over $56 per barrel, multiplied by the number of barrels covered, up to a maximum price of approximately $68 per barrel. The agreements do not qualify for hedge
 
accounting and, as a result, changes in the fair value of the options are recorded currently in earnings. We recorded a mark to market gain during the 2005 first quarter that increased 2005 synfuel gains by $54 million pre-tax. The fair value changes are recorded as adjustments to the gain from selling interests in synfuel facilities and therefore included in the "Asset gains and losses, net" line item in the consolidated statement of operations.
NOTE 9  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Synthetic Fuel Operations
We partially or wholly own nine synthetic fuel production facilities. Synfuel facilities chemically change coal, including waste and marginal coal, into a synthetic fuel as determined under applicable Internal Revenue Service rules. Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the production and sale of solid synthetic fuels produced from coal. To qualify for the Section 29 tax credits, the synthetic fuel must meet three primary conditions: (1) there must be a significant chemical change in the coal feedstock, (2) the product must be sold to an unaffiliated entity, and (3) the production facility must have been placed in service before July 1, 1998. In addition to meeting the qualifying conditions, a taxpayer must have sufficient taxable income to earn the Section 29 tax credits.
 To reduce U.S. dependence on imported oil, the Internal Revenue Code provides Section 29 tax credits as an incentive for taxpayers to produce fuels from alternative sources. This incentive is not deemed necessary if the price of oil increases and provides a natural market for these fuels. As such, the tax credit in a given year is reduced if the Reference Price of oil within that year exceeds a threshold price. The Reference Price of a barrel of oil is an estimate of the annual average wellhead price per barrel for domestic crude oil. Due to recent increased volatility, the Reference Price per barrel of oil has been $4-$7 lower than the NYMEX price for light, sweet crude oil. The threshold price at which the credit begins to be reduced was set in 1980 and is adjusted annually for inflation. For 2005, we estimate that the threshold price at which the tax credit would begin to be reduced is $52 per barrel and would be completely phased out if the Reference Price reached $66. Through March 31, 2005, the NYMEX closing price of a barrel of oil has averaged $50, which due to the uncertainty of the wellhead/NYMEX difference, is comparable to a $43 to $46 Reference Price (assuming that such price was to continue for the entire year and the difference between wellhead and NYMEX ranges from $4  $7 per barrel). We cannot predict with any accuracy the future price of a barrel of oil.
Oil Prices
Numerous recent events have increased domestic crude oil prices, including terrorism, storm-related supply disruptions and worldwide demand. If the credit is reduced or eliminated in future years, our financial statements would be negatively impacted. We continue to evaluate the current volatility in oil prices and alternatives available to mitigate our exposure to oil prices as part of our synfuel-related risk management strategy. To manage our exposure to oil prices in 2005 and 2006, we entered into oil-related derivative contracts. See Note 8 for further discussion.
Environmental
 The EPA issued ozone transport and acid rain regulations and, in December 2003, proposed additional emission regulations relating to ozone, fine particulate and mercury air pollution. The new rules have led to additional controls on fossil-fueled power plants to reduce nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide and particulate emissions. To comply with these new controls, Detroit Edison has spent approximately $580 million through December 2004, and estimates that it will spend up to $100 million in 2005 and incur up to $1.8 billion of additional future capital expenditures through 2018 to satisfy both the existing and proposed new control requirementsUnder the June 2000 Michigan restructuring legislation, beginning January 1, 2004, annual return of and on this capital expenditure, in excess of current depreciation levels, could be deferred in ratemaking, until after the expiration of the rate cap period, presently expected to end on December 31, 2005 upon MPSC authorization. Under PA 141 and the MPSC's November 2004 final rate order, we believe that prudently incurred capital expenditures, in excess of current depreciation levels, are recoverable in rates.
Air
.
 
 Detroit Edison is required to examine alternatives for reducing the environmental impacts of the cooling water intake structures at several of its facilities. Based on the results of the studies to be conducted over the next several years, Detroit Edison may be required to install additional control technologies to reduce the impacts of the intakes. It is estimated that we will incur up to $50 million over the next five to seven years in additional capital expenditures for Detroit Edison.
Water
 Prior to the construction of major interstate natural gas pipelines, gas for heating and other uses was manufactured locally from processes involving coal, coke or oil. Enterprises (MichCon and Citizens) owns, or previously owned, 18 such former manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites. During the mid-1980's, Enterprises conducted preliminary environmental investigations at former MGP sites, and some contamination related to the by-products of gas manufacturing was discovered at each site. The existence of these sites and the results of the environmental investigations have been reported to the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ).
Contaminated Sites
Enterprises is remediating eight of the former MGP sites and conducting more extensive investigations at five other former MGP sites. Enterprises received MDEQ closure of one site, and a determination that it is not a responsible party for three other sites. Enterprises received closure from the EPA in 2002 for one site.
In 1984, Enterprises established a $12 million reserve for costs associated with environmental investigation and remediation activities. During 1993, MichCon received MPSC approval of a cost deferral and rate recovery mechanism for investigation and remediation costs incurred at former MGP sites in excess of this reserve. Enterprises employed outside consultants to evaluate remediation alternatives for these sites, to assist in estimating its potential liabilities and to review its archived insurance policies. As a result of these studies, Enterprises accrued an additional liability and a corresponding regulatory asset of $35 million during 1995. In early December 2004, Enterprises retained multiple environmental consultants to estimate the projected cost to remediate each MGP facility. The results of the evaluation indicated that the MGP reserve should be set at $24 million.
During 2004, Enterprises spent approximately $2 million investigating and remediating these former MGP sites. At December 31, 2004, the reserve balance was $24 million of which $4.5 million was classified as current. Any significant change in assumptions, such as remediation techniques, nature and extent of contamination and regulatory requirements, could impact the estimate of remedial action costs for the sites and, therefore, have an effect on the Company's financial position and cash flows. However, we anticipate the cost deferral and rate recovery mechanism approved by the MPSC will prevent environmental costs from having a material adverse impact on our results of operations.
Detroit Edison conducted remedial investigations at contaminated sites, including two former MGP sites, the area surrounding an ash landfill and several underground and aboveground storage tank locations. The findings of these investigations indicated that the cost to remediate these sites is approximately $8 million, which is expected to be incurred over the next several years. As a result of the investigation, Detroit Edison accrued an $8 million liability during 2004.
Guarantees
In certain circumstances we enter into contractual guarantees. We may guarantee another entity's obligation in the event it fails to perform. We may provide guarantees in certain indemnification agreements. Finally, we may provide indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. Below are the details of specific material guarantees we currently provide. Our other guarantees are not individually material and total approximately $38 million at March 31, 2005.
Sale of Interests in Synfuel Facilities
We have provided certain guarantees and indemnities in conjunction with the sales of interests in our synfuel facilities. The guarantees cover general commercial, environmental and tax-related exposure and will survive until 90 days after expiration of all applicable statute of limitations, or indefinitely,
 
depending on the nature of the guarantee. We estimate that our maximum liability under these guarantees at March 31, 2005 totals $902 million.
Parent Company Guarantee of Subsidiary Obligations
We have issued guarantees for the benefit of various non-utility subsidiary transactions. In the event that DTE Energy's credit rating is downgraded below investment grade, certain of these guarantees would require us to post cash or letters of credit valued at approximately $422 million at March 31, 2005. This estimated amount fluctuates based upon the provisions and maturities of the underlying agreements.
Personal Property Taxes
Prior to 1999, Detroit Edison, MichCon and other Michigan utilities asserted that Michigan's valuation tables result in the substantial overvaluation of utility personal property. Valuation tables established by the Michigan State Tax Commission (STC) are used to determine the taxable value of personal property based on the property's age. In November 1999, the STC approved new valuation tables that more accurately recognize the value of a utility's personal property. The new tables became effective in 2000 and are currently used to calculate property tax expense. However, several local taxing jurisdictions have taken legal action attempting to prevent the STC from implementing the new valuation tables and have continued to prepare assessments based on the superseded tables. The legal actions regarding the appropriateness of the new tables were before the Michigan Tax Tribunal (MTT) which, in April 2002, issued its decision essentially affirming the validity of the STC's new tables. In June 2002, petitioners in the case filed an appeal of the MTT's decision with the Michigan Court of Appeals. In January 2004, the Michigan Court of Appeals upheld the validity of the new tables. With no further appeal by the petitioners available, the MTT began to schedule utility personal property valuation cases for Prehearing General Calls. Detroit Edison and MichCon have filed motions and the MTT agreed to place their cases in abeyance pending the conclusion of settlement negotiations being conducted by State of Michigan Treasury officials. On February 14, 2005, MTT issued a scheduling order that lifts the prior abeyances in a significant number of Detroit Edison and MichCon appeals. The scheduling order sets litigation calendars for these cases extending into mid-2006.
Detroit Edison and MichCon continue to record property tax expense based on the new tables. Detroit Edison and MichCon will continue through settlement or litigation to seek to apply the new tables retroactively and to ultimately resolve the pending tax appeals related to 1997 through 1999. This is a solution supported by the STC in the past. To the extent that settlements cannot be achieved with the jurisdictions, litigation regarding the valuation of utility property will delay any recoveries by Detroit Edison and MichCon.
Other Commitments
Detroit Edison has an Energy Purchase Agreement to purchase steam and electricity from the Greater Detroit Resource Recovery Authority (GDRRA). Under the Agreement, Detroit Edison will purchase steam through 2008 and electricity through June 2024. In 1996, a special charge to income was recorded that included a reserve for steam purchase commitments in excess of replacement costs from 1997 through 2008. The reserve for steam purchase commitments is being amortized to fuel, purchased power and gas expense with non-cash accretion expense being recorded through 2008. During the first quarter of 2005 we purchased $12 million of steam and electricity. For the full year 2004, we purchased $42 million of steam and electricity. We estimate steam and electric purchase commitments through 2024 will not exceed $472 million. In January 2003, we sold the steam heating business of Detroit Edison to Thermal Ventures II, LP. Due to terms of the sale, Detroit Edison remains contractually obligated to buy steam from GDRRA until 2008 and recorded an additional liability of $20 million for future commitments. Also, we have guaranteed bank loans that Thermal Ventures II, LP may use for capital improvements to the steam heating system.
In 2004, we modified our future purchase commitments under a transportation agreement with an interstate pipeline company and terminated a related long-term gas exchange (storage) agreement. Under
 
the gas exchange agreement, we received gas from the customer during the summer injection period and redelivered the gas during the winter heating season. The agreements were at rates that were not reflective of current market conditions and had been fair valued under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. In 2002, the fair value of the transportation agreement was frozen when it no longer met the definition of a derivative as a result of FERC Order 637. The fair value amounts were being amortized to income over the life of the related agreements, representing a net liability of approximately $75 million as of December 31, 2003. As a result of the contract modification and termination, we recorded an adjustment to the net liability increasing 2004 earnings by $48 million, net of taxes.
At December 31, 2004, we have entered into numerous long-term purchase commitments relating to a variety of goods and services required for our business. These agreements primarily consist of fuel supply commitments and energy trading contracts. We estimate that these commitments will be approximately $7.3 billion through 2027. We also estimate that 2005 base level capital expenditures will be $1.1 billion. We have made certain commitments in connection with expected capital expenditures.
Bankruptcies
We purchase and sell electricity, gas, coal and coke from and to numerous companies operating in the steel, automotive, energy and retail industries. Several customers have filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We have negotiated or are currently involved in negotiations with each of the companies, or their successor companies, that have filed for bankruptcy protection. We regularly review contingent matters relating to purchase and sale contracts and record provisions for amounts considered probable of loss. We believe our previously accrued amounts are adequate for probable losses. The final resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material effect on our financial statements in the period they are resolved.
Other
We are involved in certain legal, regulatory, administrative and environmental proceedings before various courts, arbitration panels and governmental agencies concerning claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These proceedings include certain contract disputes, environmental reviews and investigations, audits, inquiries from various regulators, and pending judicial matters. We cannot predict the final disposition of such proceedings. We regularly review legal matters and record provisions for claims that are considered probable of loss. The resolution of pending proceedings is not expected to have a material effect on our operations or financial statements in the period they are resolved.
See Note 5 for a discussion of contingencies related to Regulatory Matters.
NOTE 10  SHORT-TERM CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS & BORROWINGS
MichCon currently has an $81.25 million, three-year unsecured credit agreement originally entered into in October 2003, and a $243.75 million, five-year unsecured revolving credit facility entered into in October 2004. These credit facilities are with a syndicate of banks and may be utilized for general corporate borrowings, but primarily are intended to provide liquidity support for MichCon's commercial paper program. Borrowings under the facilities are available at prevailing short-term interest rates. Among other things, the agreements require MichCon to maintain an "earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization" (EBITDA) to interest ratio of no less than 2 to 1 for each twelve-month period ending on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year.
As a result of the non-recurring accounting adjustments that were required due to the MPSC gas rate orders issued on April 28, 2005, MichCon did not meet the EBITDA to interest ratio at March 31, 2005. The lenders have agreed to amend the credit facilities to exclude the EBITDA to interest ratio for the first quarter of 2005. At March 31, 2005 and the date of the amendments, MichCon does not have any indebtedness under the credit facilities or any commercial paper outstanding.
 
NOTE 11  SEGMENT INFORMATION
We operate our businesses through five strategic business units (Electric Utility, Gas Utility, Power and Industrial Operations, Unconventional Gas Production and Fuel Transportation & Marketing). The balance of our business consists of Corporate & Other. Based on this structure, we set strategic goals, allocate resources and evaluate performance. This results in the following reportable segments. Inter-segment revenues primarily consist of power sales, gas sales and coal transportation services between Electric Utility and our other Non-utility Operations segments.
 
 
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of DTE Energy Company
We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of financial position of DTE Energy Company and subsidiaries as of March 31, 2005, and the related condensed consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, and changes in shareholders' equity and comprehensive income for the three-month period ended March 31, 2005 and the three-month periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These interim financial statements are the responsibility of DTE Energy Company's management.
We conducted our reviews in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to such condensed consolidated interim financial statements for them to be in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statement of financial position of DTE Energy Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity and comprehensive income for the year then ended (not presented herein); and in our report dated March 15, 2005 (August 4, 2005 as to Note 16) (which report includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the change in the methods of accounting for asset retirement obligations, energy trading contracts and gas inventories in 2003 and goodwill and energy trading contracts in 2002), we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2004 is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated statement of financial position from which it has been derived.
/S/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Detroit, Michigan May 10, 2005 (August 4, 2005 as to Note 11)

 
Exhibit 99.4
August 4, 2005
DTE Energy Company Detroit, Michigan
We have made a review, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), of the unaudited interim financial information of DTE Energy Company and subsidiaries for the periods ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, as indicated in our report dated May 10, 2005 (August 4, 2005 as to Note 11); because we did not perform an audit, we expressed no opinion on that information.
We are aware that our report referred to above, which is included in this Current Report on Form 8-K for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, is incorporated by reference in the following Registration Statements:
We also are aware that the aforementioned report, pursuant to Rule 436(c) under the Securities Act of 1933, is not considered a part of the Registration Statements prepared or certified by an accountant or a report prepared or certified by an accountant within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of that Act.
/S/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Detroit, Michigan


