FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20050210172024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
DTE Energy Company is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") with its earnings release issued February 10, 2005, announcing financial results for the year ended December 31, 2004. Copies of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2003 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 10, 2005
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Feb. 10, 2005
DTE ENERGY REPORTS 2004 EARNINGS, MAINTAINS EARNINGS GUIDANCE FOR 2005
         DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported earnings for 2004 of $431 million, or $2.49 per diluted share, compared with 2003 reported earnings of $521 million, or $3.09 per diluted share.
         Operating earnings, which exclude non-recurring items and discontinued operations, for 2004 were $427 million, or $2.46 per diluted share, compared with 2003 operating earnings of $500 million, or $2.97 per diluted share.
         A reconciliation of reported to operating earnings for both the fourth quarter and 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2003 and 2004 is at the end of this release.
         "Last year was a difficult year from an earnings perspective, but I believe our 2004 accomplishments have DTE Energy well-positioned for the future," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO"The successful completion of Detroit Edison's rate case and the expected first quarter resolution of MichCon's rate case will strengthen DTE Energy's utility core. Additionally, we continued our record of successfully growing our non-utility businesses while maintaining a strong balance sheet and healthy dividend."
.
         DTE Energy President Gerard M. Anderson concurred: "We made tremendous progress on the regulatory front in 2004, but we have some key milestones in 2005, including the conclusion of the MichCon gas rate case and the recently filed electric rate restructuring process. During 2005 we plan to retire $200 million of parent company debt, and redeploy an additional $250 to $300 million. The redeployment will focus on high quality growth investments, but if we do not have a sufficient volume of investment opportunities, we will repurchase stock."
         DTE Energy also reported 2004 cash from operations of approximately $1.0 billion, compared with $950 million reported in 2003. Including the ongoing proceeds from the sale of majority interests in the company's synthetic fuel production facilities, adjusted cash from operations increased to $1.2 billion in 2004 from $1.0 billion in 2003.
         Operating earnings results for 2004, by business unit, were as follows:
 
         For the fourth quarter of 2004, DTE Energy reported earnings were $113 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, down from 2003 reported earnings of $229 million, or $1.36 per diluted share. Operating earnings for the fourth quarter 2004 were $162 million, or $0.94 per diluted share, up from 2003 operating earnings of $138 million, or $0.82 per diluted share.
     Fourth quarter operating earnings results by business unit were:
 
         Use of Operating Earnings Information  DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
2005 Outlook
DTE Energy reconfirmed its 2005 earnings guidance of $3.30 to $3.60 per diluted share.
     "We believe that 2005 will be a brighter year for DTE Energy," said David E. Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and CFO. "Financially, we expect that our electric rate restructuring proposal and the resolution of MichCon's rate case will bring our utilities back to financial health and provide a sustainable and stable regulatory structure. We also plan to continue our successful strategy of growing our non-utility businesses while maintaining a strong balance sheet and an attractive dividend. Operationally, our focus will be to effectively redeploy the $1.65 billion in cash that we expect our non-utility businesses to generate from 2005 to 2008 into corporate debt reduction, investments in promising non-utility businesses and stock repurchases."
         "With the utilities moving towards their authorized return on equity and continued non-utility growth, we expect earnings and cash flows to improve dramatically in 2005 and put us on the right path for 2006," Meador said.
Recent Events and Developments
MPSC Issues Detroit Edison Final Rate Order
         On Nov. 23, 2004, the MPSC issued the final order in Detroit Edison's general rate case. The order granted $374 million in rate relief based on an 11 percent allowed return on an equity base of $2.9 billion, with a 54 percent debt and 46 percent equity capital structure. The final order authorized full recovery of $550 million in past environmental expenditures, established surcharges to recover almost $400 million of accrued regulatory assets, enacted a pension expense tracking mechanism and allowed recovery of costs associated with transmission, the Midwest Independent System Operator and nitrogen oxide emission allowances through the power supply cost recovery mechanism.
Detroit Edison Files Rate Restructuring Proposal
         On Feb. 4, 2005, Detroit Edison filed the rate restructuring proposal mandated by the Michigan Public Service Commission's (MPSC) final order in Detroit Edison's general rate case. The primary purpose of this filing is to ensure that all customers, including participants in the electric Customer Choice program, pay their fair and proportionate share of each element of service. This will be achieved through the creation of a fair, equitable and unbundled rate structure that is free of subsidization and based on actual cost of service. In addition, Detroit Edison's proposed method will provide a rational transition period for the removal of rate subsidies. Detroit Edison is not requesting any incremental revenues from this rate restructuring proposal above those granted in the final rate order.
Administrative Law Judge Recommendation on MichCon Final Rate Relief
         On Dec. 10, 2004, the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) issued a Proposal for Decision regarding final rate relief requested by MichCon. The ALJ recommended a $60 million base rate increase compared with the MPSC staff's recommendation of $76 million and MichCon's originally requested increase of $194 million. Additionally, the ALJ agreed with the MPSC staff in recommending the adoption of MichCon's proposed mechanism to allow MichCon to recover or refund 90 percent of uncollectable accounts receivables expense above or below the amount that is reflected in base rates. The ALJ also agreed with the MPSC staff in
 
supporting a 50 percent debt and 50 percent equity capital structure utilizing a rate of return on common equity of 11 percent. MichCon expects a final order in the first quarter of 2005.
         This earnings announcement, as well as a package of detailed financial information, is available on the company's website at www.dteenergy.com/investors.
         DTE Energy will conduct a conference call with the investment community at 9 a.m. EST Friday, Feb. 11, to discuss fourth quarter and 2004 earnings results. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live internet broadcast of the DTE Energy conference call at www.dteenergy.com/investors. The internet broadcast will be archived on the company's website.
         DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
         The information contained herein is as of the date of this press release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This press release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; economic climate and growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws and regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance associated therewith; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; the higher price of oil and its impact on the value of Section 29 tax credits, and the ability to utilize and/or sell interests in facilities producing such credits; implementation of electric and gas Customer Choice programs; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes in the cost of coal and the availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; effects of competition; impacts of FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations; contributions to earnings by non-utility businesses; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism; changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; and changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the company. This press release should also be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2003 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, MichCon and Detroit Edison.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
 
     (1) Primarily represents gains on the sale of interests in synfuel projects.
     (2) Primarily represents our partners' share of synfuel project losses.
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
 
 
 
Gas Sales  MichCon Service Area (Mcf)
Gas Revenue  MichCon Service Area ($000s)
Detroit Edison service territory
Cooling Degree Days
MichCon service territory
Heating Degree Days
 
Gas Sales  MichCon Service Area (Mcf)
Gas Revenue  MichCon Service Area ($000s)
Detroit Edison service territory
Cooling Degree Days
MichCon service territory
Heating Degree Days
Page 11


