FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20050614110911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
      On June 10, 2005, DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") issued a press release in which it announced Nick A. Khouri, DTE Energy Vice President and Treasurer, will make a presentation at the Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Electric Power Conference at approximately 3:30 p.m. EDT Tuesday, June 14. For additional information, please see DTE Energy's press release dated June 10, 2005, attached as Exhibit 99.1. A copy of the slide presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2004 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 14, 2005
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
June 10, 2005
DTE Energy exec to speak at Deutsche Bank Conference
      DETROIT  Nick A. Khouri, DTE Energy vice president and treasurer, will make a presentation at the Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Electric Power Conference at approximately 3:30 p.m. EDT Tuesday, June 14.
      The conference audio and presentation materials will be available via webcast through a link on DTE Energy's website at www.dteenergy.com/investors. The webcast replay will be available and archived on the website.
      DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. DTE Energy's largest operating subsidiaries are Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, and MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
For Further Information:

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


