FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20061221170604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On December 15, 2006, DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") amended its $150,000,000 letter of credit and reimbursement agreement dated as of December 16, 2005 ("Agreement"), by and among DTE Energy, the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders listed therein, and The Bank of Nova Scotia ("Scotia Capital"), as Administrative Agent which provided for the issuance of letters of credit in an amount not to exceed $150,000,000. The amendment extends the expiration of the Agreement from December 15, 2006 to December 14, 2007 and reduces the amount of the facility to $43,380,000.
     A Form of the amendment is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXECUTION COPY
EXHIBIT 10.1
          THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO LETTER OF CREDIT AND REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT (this "") is made as of December 15, 2006, by and among DTE ENERGY COMPANY (the ""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders listed on the signature pages hereof (the ""), and THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, as Administrative Agent and as the LC Issuer, under that certain Letter of Credit and Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of December 16, 2005, by and among the Borrower, the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders from time to time parties thereto and the Administrative Agent (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""). Defined terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning given to them in the Agreement.
Amendment
Borrower
Lenders
Agreement
          WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Lenders, the LC Issuer and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Agreement; and
          WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Administrative Agent, the LC Issuer and the Lenders amend the Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
          WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the LC Issuer and the requisite number of Lenders have agreed to amend the Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth herein;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth above, the terms and conditions contained herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto have agreed to the following amendments to the Agreement:
 
 
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 


