FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20060831104503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events
     On August 31, 2006, The Detroit Edison Company ("Detroit Edison"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy"), issued a News Release announcing that it has reached a settlement with the Michigan Public Service Commission ("MPSC") regarding Detroit Edison's show cause proceeding and has posted a Summary of Detroit Edison's Settlement Agreement with the MPSC to the DTE Energy website at www.dteenergy.com/investors.
     For a detailed discussion, please see Detroit Edison's News Release dated August 31, 2006, and the Summary of Detroit Edison's Settlement Agreement with the MPSC dated August 31, 2006, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 respectively and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Forward-Looking Statements:
     This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2005 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information of future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Aug. 31, 2006
Detroit Edison, others reach settlement in show cause proceeding
     DETROIT  Detroit Edison and a group of stakeholders have reached a settlement agreement on a Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) show cause order which asked Detroit Edison to explain why its electric rates should not be reduced.
     Under the agreement, Detroit Edison, a subsidiary of DTE Energy, will reduce 2006 electric rates on an annualized basis by $52.5 million. However, pro-rated for the remainder of 2006, the actual rate decrease will be approximately $17 million. Starting Jan. 1, 2007, rates will be reduced by an additional $26.25 million, bringing the total rate reduction to $78.75 million on an annualized basis. The rate reduction, which was approved today by the MPSC, will be applied to Detroit Edison residential, commercial and industrial customers.
     "This settlement agreement shows our commitment to keep electric rates as low as possible, and is evidence that cost reduction and process improvement measures undertaken by Detroit Edison are paying off for our customers," said Robert Buckler, president of Detroit Edison.
     In March of 2006, the MPSC ordered Detroit Edison to explain why its electric rates should not be reduced, citing several factors that could potentially cause the company to exceed its authorized rate of return. Over the past several months, Detroit Edison worked with a number of interested parties  including the MPSC staff, the Michigan Attorney General's office and others  to develop the settlement agreement.
     "This agreement demonstrates the collaborative relationship we have with the Michigan Public Service Commission and other key constituents," Buckler said. "We were able to enter into fruitful discussions with all interested parties and reach a settlement that is in the best interest of our customers and our shareholders."
     The settlement agreement also provides continued progress in rate deskewing which moves commercial and residential electric rates closer to their actual cost of service. The agreement creates a mechanism that addresses the financial risk associated with fluctuations in Electric Choice sales, and a methodology for amortizing the costs incurred to achieve savings from the company's Performance Excellence Process.
 
     The settlement agreement does not alter DTE Energy's consolidated 2006 operating earnings guidance excluding synfuels of $2.41  $2.66 per diluted share. Furthermore, Detroit Edison remains positioned to earn its authorized rate of return in 2006 and 2007, the company said.
     Importantly, the rate reduction agreement includes a sunset provision. Detroit Edison is facing significant capital investments over the next several years for infrastructure improvements to enhance electric service reliability, and for mandated environmental upgrades to achieve state and federal regulations. The sunset provision recognizes that additional resources may be needed in the future.
     To minimize the financial impact of these capital investments, Detroit Edison has begun implementing its Performance Excellence Process  a broad productivity, service and cost improvement effort focused on all areas of Detroit Edison, MichCon and the corporate staff of parent-company DTE Energy.
     Detroit Edison is an investor-owned electric utility serving 2.2 million customers in Southeastern Michigan and a subsidiary of DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE), a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
     This news release includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", and similar words. These statements should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in DTE Energy Company's "DTE Energy" and The Detroit Edison Company's "Detroit Edison" 2005 Form 10-K and most recent 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially, including, but not limited to, the speed and nature of regulatory approvals. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
     In this document, DTE Energy provides 2006 guidance for operating earnings. DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2006 reported results will be excluded from operating results. A reconciliation to the comparable 2006 reported earnings/net income guidance is not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items such as 2007 oil hedging costs, Performance Excellence Process restructuring charges and DTE2 implementation charges. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
For further information, members of the media may call:

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
DTE Energy Announces Constructive Settlement in Detroit Edison Show Cause Proceeding; Maintains Operating Earnings Guidance of $2.41-2.66 per Diluted Share
i
August 31, 2006
Overview
     A settlement agreement was announced today in Detroit Edison's show cause proceeding (U-14838). Detroit Edison worked with the Michigan Public Service Commission Staff and other parties to develop this settlement, which has been submitted for review and approval by the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC). The company believes this collaborative agreement is indicative of the ongoing constructive regulatory environment in Michigan. The full settlement agreement is posted on the MPSC's website: http://efile.mpsc.cis.state.mi.us/efile/electric.html
     This settlement provides additional regulatory certainty through continued progress to reduce the level of rate skewing, the creation of a Choice Incentive Mechanism, the deferral and amortization of the costs to achieve savings from the Performance Excellence Process and a modest rate reduction. This settlement agreement does not alter DTE Energy's consolidated 2006 operating earnings guidance excluding synfuels of $2.41-2.66 per diluted share. Furthermore, Detroit Edison remains positioned to earn its authorized 11% ROE in 2006 & 2007.
ii
Background
     In March 2006, the MPSC ordered Detroit Edison to explain why its electric rates should not be reduced. In the order, the MPSC cited several factors that could cause Detroit Edison to exceed its authorized 11% return on equity. These factors included the January 1, 2006 expiration of residential rate caps, a return of customers to full utility service from Electric Choice and cost savings from the announced Performance Excellence Process (PEP).
Components of Settlement
1
 
2
 
 
3


