FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20060215173031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
DTE Energy Company is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") with its earnings release issued February 15, 2006, announcing financial results for the year ended December 31, 2005. Copies of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, under Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2004 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 15, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Feb. 15, 2006
DTE Energy Reports 2005 Earnings Increase 25%; Expects Continued Strong Earnings Growth in 2006
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported 2005 earnings of $537 million, or $3.05 per diluted share, compared with 2004 reported earnings of $431 million, or $2.49 per diluted share. Earnings improved 25 percent over 2004, driven by operational and regulatory improvements at Detroit Edison and MichCon. Also boosting earnings were higher profits in DTE's Power and Industrial segment.
     Operating earnings for 2005 were $577 million, or $3.27 per diluted share, compared with 2004 operating earnings of $445 million, or $2.57 per diluted share. Operating earnings exclude non-recurring items, certain timing-related items and discontinued operations. Reconciliations of operating to reported earnings are included at the end of this news release.
     "I am very pleased with the progress we made in 2005 and I expect to continue the trend of strong long-term earnings growth in 2006," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "Detroit Edison and MichCon achieved important regulatory milestones in 2005 and initiated a focused effort to achieve significant cost reductions and increase customer satisfaction, which will drive our utilities toward achieving their full earnings power. In our three non-utility business segments, I believe we will continue to capitalize on opportunities to invest our strong cash flow. Our focus for 2006 is to continue our growth momentum while executing our plans for performance excellence."
Electric and Gas Utilities Show Strong Year-Over-Year Improvement
     Operating earnings for Detroit Edison were $1.54 per diluted share in 2005 versus $1.03 in 2004. Driving this improved performance was ongoing cost control, the full-year impact of rate relief, the return of customers from alternate electric suppliers and much warmer year-over-year summer weather, with cooling degree days 73 percent higher than in 2004. This upside was mitigated by the freeze on residential rates, which prevented the complete pass-through of higher fuel and purchase-power costs, resulting in approximately $73 million in savings for Detroit Edison's customers. In addition, Detroit Edison completed many cost control and productivity improvement projects. These projects, which included increasing the reliability and commercial availability of coal-fired power plants and increasing the efficiency of coal delivery, saved DTE Energy a total of $191 million in 2005. Much of these savings, $72 million, were passed on to Detroit Edison customers through lower fuel costs.
Electric Utility:
     Detroit Edison's return on equity was 9 percent in 2005, a significant improvement over its 6 percent return in 2004, but below its authorized return of 11 percent.
     Primarily consisting of MichCon, this segment had 2005 operating earnings of $0.42 per diluted share versus $0.13 in 2004. The key drivers of this improvement were the partial year benefit of rate relief granted in April 2005, an increase in revenue from regulated gas storage
Gas Utility:
 
due to higher gas prices and benefits from the uncollectible expense tracking mechanism. This mechanism, authorized in April 2005, allows MichCon to recover 90 percent of the uncollectible expense over the base amount set in its rate structure. Partially offsetting these positive earnings drivers were lower sales volume due to customer conservation and energy-efficiency improvements. MichCon demonstrated its commitment to ease the burden of increased natural gas costs on its customers in 2005 by reaching an agreement with the Michigan Public Service Commission staff, the attorney general and the Residential Ratepayer Consortium to delay passing through some of the increased natural gas costs to customers this winter. MichCon expects to fully recover these costs in the future through its established gas cost recovery mechanism.
     MichCon's return on equity was 9 percent 2005, a significant improvement over its 3 percent return in 2004 but below its authorized return of 11 percent.
Non-Utility Businesses Continue Growth Trajectory
 
Corporate and Other
Fourth Quarter 2005 Results
     For the fourth quarter of 2005, DTE Energy reported earnings of $382 million, or $2.14 per diluted share, up from 2004 reported earnings of $113 million, or $0.65 per diluted share. Operating earnings for the fourth quarter 2005 were $378 million, or $2.12 per diluted share, up from 2004 operating earnings of $151 million, or $0.86 per diluted share.
     Operating earnings for Detroit Edison were $0.40 per diluted share versus $0.39 in the fourth quarter of 2004. Driving this improved performance was the impact of rate relief, mostly offset by lower regulatory deferrals.
Electric Utility:
     MichCon had operating earnings of $0.26 per diluted share versus $0.15 in the fourth quarter of 2004. The key driver of this improvement was the benefit of the MPSC rate relief granted in April 2005. Other positive drivers were an increase in revenue from regulated gas storage due to higher gas prices and benefits from the uncollectible expense tracking mechanism implemented by the MPSC, offset by lower customer gas usage.
Gas Utility:
     Operating earnings from non-utility operations increased to $1.60 per diluted share versus $0.47 in the fourth quarter of 2004. The increase primarily resulted from the recognition of synfuel earnings deferred from the first three quarters of 2005 in the Power
Non-Utility Operations:
 
and Industrial Projects segment, as well as the partial flowback of timing-related accounting adjustments in the Fuel Transportation and Marketing segment.
     The Corporate and Other segment reported operating losses of $0.14 per diluted share compared to losses of $0.15 in the fourth quarter of 2004.
Corporate and Other:
2006 Earnings Expected to Increase Significantly over 2005
     As previously announced, DTE Energy expects 2006 operating earnings of $3.60 to $3.90 per diluted share, a significant increase over 2005 earnings. This earnings guidance assumes no oil price-related phase out of synfuel tax credits. A partial or full phase-out of tax credits would be expected to adversely impact 2006 results.
     "We expect continued strong performance in 2006," said David E. Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and chief financial officer. "We expect Detroit Edison and MichCon to benefit from reduced costs and increased productivity resulting from our Performance Excellence Process. We also expect Detroit Edison to benefit from the reacquisition of customers from alternate electric suppliers and from the expiration of rate caps on residential customers. In our non-utility businesses, we expect to continue our steadfast focus on value creation while investing in our full pipeline of growth opportunities."
Conference Call and Webcast
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of supplemental financial information, is available on the company's website at www.dteenergy.com/investors.
     DTE Energy will conduct a conference call with the investment community at 9 a.m. EST Thursday, Feb. 16, to discuss 2005 earnings results and 2006 guidance. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live internet broadcast of the meeting at www.dteenergy.com/investors. The telephone dial-in numbers are (719) 457-2698 or (800) 500-0311. There is no passcode. The internet broadcast will be archived on the company's website.
     In this release, DTE Energy provides 2006 operating earnings guidance. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2006 reported results will be excluded from operating results. A reconciliation to the comparable 2006 reported earnings guidance is not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items such as 2007 oil hedging costs, Performance Excellence Process restructuring charges and DTE2 implementation charges. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
     Use of Operating Earnings Information  DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
 
     DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.2 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.3 million customers in Michigan and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on power and industrial projects, fuel transportation and marketing, and unconventional gas production. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
     The information contained herein is as of the date of this news release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This news release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially.
     Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; economic climate and population growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws and regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance associated therewith; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; the higher price of oil and its impact on the value of Section 29 tax credits, and the ability to utilize and/or sell interests in facilities producing such credits; implementation of electric and gas Customer Choice programs; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes in the cost and availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; effects of competition; impact of regulation by FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings or regulations; contributions to earnings by non-utility subsidiaries; changes in federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism; changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; uncollectible accounts receivable and changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the Company. This news release should also be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2004 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, MichCon and Detroit Edison.
 
     Cautionary Note  The Securities and Exchange Commission permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proved reserves that a company has demonstrated by actual production or conclusive formation tests to be economically and legally producible under existing economic and operating conditions. We use certain terms in this news release such as "probable reserves" that the SEC's guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. You are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, File No. 1-11607, available from our offices or from our website at www.dteenergy.com. You can also obtain these Forms from the SEC by calling 1-800-SEC-0330.
Members of the Media  For Further Information:
 
 
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key

 
 
(in $ millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in the Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10K and 10Q.
 
 


