FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20060406082745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     Anthony F. Earley, DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") Chairman and CEO, Gerard M. Anderson, DTE Energy President, and David Meador, DTE Energy Executive Vice President and CFO, will provide a business update at a business update meeting for analysts and investors in New York at 8:30 a.m. April 6, 2006. For additional information, please see DTE Energy's press release dated April 3, 2006, attached as Exhibit 99.1. A copy of the slide presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2005 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
April 3, 2006
DTE Energy schedules Business Update meeting
     DETROIT  Details of DTE Energy's long-term growth strategy will highlight a Business Update meeting for analysts and investors in New York at 8:30 a.m. April 6.
     Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO, and Gerard M. Anderson, DTE Energy president, also will provide an update on its Performance Excellence Process, designed to improve customer satisfaction, reduce costs and increase efficiency. David Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and CFO, will present a financial update.
     The meeting will be webcast live at www.dteenergy.com/investors. People interested in listening to the meeting may dial toll-free (888) 889-3918; the passcode is 1721718 and the leader is Anthony Earley. The webcast replay will be available on the DTE Energy website at www.dteenergy.com/investors later that day.
     DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.2 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.3 million customers in Michigan and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on power and industrial projects, fuel transportation and marketing, and unconventional gas production. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
For further information, members of the media may call:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


