FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20060523113316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
          Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
          On May 17, 2006, The Detroit Edison Company ("Detroit Edison") entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of May 17, 2006 (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representatives of several other underwriters named therein (collectively, the "Underwriters"), with respect to the offer and sale by Detroit Edison and the purchase by the Underwriters, of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Detroit Edison's 2006 Series A 6.625% Senior Notes due 2036. The Underwriting Agreement is attached as Exhibit 1.1, hereto.
          Detroit Edison intends to use the proceeds from this offering for the repayment of short-term borrowings and for general corporate purposes.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's and The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") 2005 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 1.1
May 17, 2006
To the Representatives of the several Underwriters named in Schedule I hereto.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          The Detroit Edison Company, a Michigan corporation (the "Company") proposes to issue and sell severally to the firms named in Schedule I hereto (such firms constituting the "Underwriters") $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2006 Series A 6.625% Senior Notes due 2036 with the terms specified in Schedule II hereto (the "Securities"). The Securities will be issued pursuant to the terms of an Indenture, dated as of June 30, 1993, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee (the "Indenture Trustee"), as amended and supplemented by various supplemental indentures including the supplemental indenture (a "Supplemental Indenture") creating the Securities (the "Indenture"). Payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities will be secured by the Company's General and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, 2006 Series A ("Mortgage Bonds"), to be issued under the Mortgage and Deed of Trust, dated as of October 1, 1924, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee (the "Mortgage Trustee" and each of the Indenture Trustee and the Mortgage Trustee, a "Trustee"), as amended and supplemented by various supplemental indentures including the supplemental indenture (a "Supplemental Mortgage Indenture"), and pledged by the Company to the Indenture Trustee (such Mortgage Bonds, the "Pledged Bond").
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified parties, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the
 
indemnified party or parties is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party or parties from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party or parties.
          The indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any litigation or proceeding effected without the written consent of the indemnifying party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees, subject to the provisions of this Section 9, to indemnify the indemnified party from and against any loss, damage, liability or expenses by reason of such settlement or judgment.
 
 
 
 
 
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
 
 
TITLE OF SECURITIES:
2006 Series A 6.625% Senior Notes due 2036 (the "Securities")
AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT:
$250,000,000
PRICE TO PUBLIC:
99.946% of the principal amount of the Securities, plus accrued interest, if any, from date of issuance
PURCHASE PRICE BY UNDERWRITERS:
99.071% of the principal amount of the Securities, plus accrued interest from date of issuance
FORM OF SECURITIES:
Book-entry only form represented by one or more global securities deposited with The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") or its designated custodian, to be made available for checking by the Representatives at least twenty-four hours prior to the Time of Delivery at the office of DTC.
SPECIFIED FUNDS FOR PAYMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE:
Same day funds.
MORTGAGE AND DEED OF TRUST:
Mortgage and Deed of Trust dated as of October 1, 1924, as supplemented by and through a Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 15, 2006, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor Trustee.
 
INDENTURE:
Collateral Trust Indenture dated as of June 30, 1993, as supplemented by and through a Twentieth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 15, 2006, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor Trustee.
MATURITY:
The Securities will mature on June 1, 2036
INTEREST RATE:
6.625% per annum
DAY COUNT:
360-day year of twelve 30-day months
INTEREST PAYMENT DATES:
June 1 and December 1, commencing December 1, 2006
REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
As set forth in the Securities
SINKING FUND PROVISIONS:
No sinking fund provisions.
DEFEASANCE PROVISIONS:
The Company may defease the Securities pursuant to the terms of the Indenture.
 
TIME OF DELIVERY:
9:00 a.m. (New York City time), May 24, 2006
CLOSING LOCATION FOR DELIVERY OF SECURITIES:
Dewey Ballantine LLP 1301 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10019
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF REPRESENTATIVES, CONTACTS FOR NOTICES:
Barclays Capital Inc. 200 Park Avenue New York, New York 10166 Attn: Michael Hardgrove
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013 Attn: Patrick Boultinghouse
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 270 Park Avenue New York, New York 10017 Attn: High Grade Syndicate Desk  8th floor Facsimile: (212) 834-6081
 
 
Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Barclays Capital Inc. toll-free at 1-888-227-2275 Ext. 2663, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. toll free at 1-877-858-5407 or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. collect at (212) 834-4533.
 


