FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20060105165506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events
     On January 5, 2006, The Detroit Edison Company ("Detroit Edison"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy"), issued a News Release announcing that it had posted the Summary of Detroit Edison's Electric Rate Restructuring Order to the DTE Energy website at www.dteenergy.com/investors/update.html.
     For a detailed discussion, please see Detroit Edison's News Release dated January 5, 2006, and the Summary of Detroit Edison's Rate Restructuring Order dated January 5, 2006, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 respectively and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Forward-Looking Statements:
     This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2004 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information of future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Jan. 5, 2006
DTE Energy posts summary of Detroit Edison
rate restructuring order
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today posted to its website a summary of the Michigan Public Service Commission's (MPSC) rate restructuring order for Detroit Edison.
     The summary, which can be found at www.dteenergy.com/investors/update.html, provides details of the MPSC's Dec. 22, 2005, order which addressed Detroit Edison's rate subsidization issue.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on power and industrial projects, fuel transportation and marketing, and unconventional gas production. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
     This news release contains "forward-looking statements" that are subject to risks and uncertainties. They should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements section in DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2004 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events.
For further information, members of the media may contact:

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
January 5, 2006
TO THE INVESTMENT COMMUNITY
1
:
     On December 22, 2005 the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) issued an order in response to Detroit Edison's request to unbundle rates and address numerous rate subsidy issues (rate deskewing). The full text of the order can be found on the MPSC website (http://efile.mpsc.cis.state.mi.us/cgi-bin/efile/viewcase.pl?casenum=14399).
Introduction
     On November 23, 2004, the MPSC issued its final order in the Detroit Edison general rate case (U-13808), which among other things, ordered Detroit Edison to file a new rate unbundling case that would also address Detroit Edison's request to, "adjust rates to remove rate differentials or other inequalities as well as subsidies inherent in its current rates." On February 4, 2005 Detroit Edison submitted the required filing.
     Most current rates for Detroit Edison are not reflective of the actual cost of service. Generally, residential customers are paying less than if their rates were based on cost of service. Conversely, commercial and industrial customers taking bundled electric service from Detroit Edison are paying rates higher than their cost of service. This current inter-class rate subsidy reflects a long-standing MPSC policy to have commercial and industrial customers provide a subsidy to residential customers. Detroit Edison proposed that the unbundled power supply and distribution rates be based on a fully allocated cost of service study, thus eliminating all subsidies.
     Currently, Electric Choice customers pay a lower distribution charge than customers taking bundled service from Detroit Edison. For Electric Choice customers, distribution charges were originally based on 1995 costs and are no longer indicative of Detroit Edison's actual cost structure. Detroit Edison proposed to eliminate these intra-class rate subsidies. These intra-class
 
1
 
rate subsidies essentially provide discounted distribution service for customers that chose to purchase generation from an alternative electric supplier, at the expense of other customers.
     The general intent of the filing was to ensure that all customers, including Electric Choice customers, pay a fair and proportionate share of each element of electric service. This would eliminate the existing inter- and intra-class subsidies reflected in current rates. Regarding alternative suppliers, Detroit Edison proposed an immediate elimination of the intra-class distribution rate disparity and a phased in correction of inter-class rate subsidies.
Summary of MPSC Order
     While the MPSC did not order the comprehensive realignment of the existing rate structure that Detroit Edison requested in its original filing, the MPSC order did take some initial steps to improve the current competitive imbalance in Michigan's Electric Choice program.
Realignment of Distribution Rates
Other Impacts to the Electric Choice Program
Unbundling Rates / Cost of Service
2
 
Next Rate Case
Impact on Choice Volumes
     Electric Choice participation levels are dependent on a wide range of factors such as prevailing market prices for electricity, economic variables, duration of customer contracts, past experience with choice and alternative supplier marketing activity in Detroit Edison's service territory. The combination of lower full service rates and higher Electric Choice rates should bring better balance to Michigan's electric energy supply marketplace. The impact of this order will be evaluated as data becomes available.
3
 
Detroit Edison 2005 Average Bundled Rates (/kWh)
Detroit Edison Average Unbundled Rates (/kWh) Effective 02/01/2006
 
5
 
Detroit Edison Sales and Revenue
Detroit Edison Sales and Revenue Temperature Normalized


