FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20070502172948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
DTE Energy Company is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") with its earnings release issued May 2, 2007, announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. Copies of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, under Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") 2006 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's, Detroit Edison's and MichCon's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy, Detroit Edison and MichCon expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 2, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
May 2, 2007
DTE Energy announces first quarter 2007 earnings;
maintains 2007 earnings guidance
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported first quarter 2007 earnings of $134 million, or $0.76 per diluted share, compared with reported earnings of $136 million, or $0.76 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2006. Reported earnings declined primarily due to the impact of the temporary Detroit Edison rate reduction agreed to in August 2006 and the absence of mark-to-market gains at Energy Trading.
     Operating earnings for the first quarter 2007 were $149 million, or $0.85 per diluted share, compared with first quarter 2006 operating earnings of $171 million, or $0.96 per diluted share. Operating earnings exclude non-recurring items, certain timing-related items and discontinued operations. The primary drivers of the decline over the prior year were the temporary Detroit Edison rate reduction agreed to in August 2006 as part of the settlement of the show cause proceeding and increased costs due to a January 2007 ice storm. Reconciliations of reported to operating earnings are at the end of this news release.
     DTE Energy also reported cash flow from operations of approximately $632 million in the first quarter of 2007. Including synfuel production payments, adjusted cash from operations was $737 million, an 8 percent increase from the first quarter of 2006.
     "I am very pleased with our progress in building a foundation for strong, long-term earnings growth," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "The hard work of our utility employees on our comprehensive cost-reduction program enabled us to more than offset inflationary cost pressures in Detroit Edison's recent rate filing. We have also started work on preparing a license application for a new nuclear plant at our existing Fermi site. This is the first step to providing additional clean, reliable and affordable energy for Michigan for decades to come. I am optimistic that the Michigan Legislature will take the necessary steps to repeal the state's hybrid regulatory structure, which would enable us and others to build the plants necessary to power Michigan's future.
     "Our non-utility restructuring plan is also proceeding very well," said Gerard M. Anderson, DTE Energy president and chief operating officer. "We have created substantial value in our non-utility businesses, and we are pursuing the opportunity to return a significant portion of this value to our shareholders. Based upon the strong investor interest to date, I am confident that the previously disclosed $800 million of expected after-tax proceeds from the sale of a portion of our non-utility businesses is very conservative, and we remain committed to quickly applying the proceeds to buying back stock and reducing debt. We repurchased approximately 1 million shares of stock under this plan in the first quarter of 2007 in addition to the 1 million shares bought back in December 2006, and may continue to make opportunistic repurchases of stock as we work to close deals."
First quarter 2007 operating earnings results, by segment:
     Operating earnings for Detroit Edison were $0.27 per diluted share versus $0.37 in the first quarter of 2006. The key drivers of the variance were the temporary rate
Electric Utility:
 
reduction agreed to in August 2006 as part of the settlement of the show cause proceeding and increased storm costs, partially offset by more customers on full utility service compared with 2006.
     MichCon had operating earnings of $0.36 per diluted share versus $0.26 in the first quarter of 2006. Driving the improvement was colder weather compared with 2006 and higher utility gas storage revenues.
Gas Utility:
     Operating earnings in this segment, which includes non-utility gas pipelines and storage as well as coal transportation and marketing, were $0.07 per diluted share, equal to earnings in the first quarter of 2006.
Coal and Gas Midstream:
     Operating earnings from Antrim and Barnett Shale operations were $0.01 per diluted share, up from breakeven results in the first quarter of 2006. Driving the improvement was increased production from the company's Barnett Shale wells.
Unconventional Gas Production:
     Improvements at the company's industrial projects, biomass projects and peakers resulted in operating earnings of $0.02 per diluted share, a significant increase compared with a loss of $0.06 in the first quarter of 2006.
Power and Industrial Projects:
     Energy Trading had operating earnings of $0.01 per diluted share versus $0.16 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2006. The year ago quarter included a $0.19 per diluted share flowback of timing-related losses from 2005, and the absence of this flowback was the primary driver of the quarter-over-quarter variance.
Energy Trading:
     Operating earnings from the synthetic fuel segment were $0.21 per diluted share compared with $0.24 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2006. Increased earnings from 8 percent higher production in the current quarter was offset by the absence of mark-to-market gains on the company's oil hedges booked in the first quarter of 2006.
Synthetic Fuels:
     The Corporate and Other segment had operating losses of $0.10 per diluted share compared with losses of $0.08 in the first quarter of 2006. Driving performance was higher interest expense.
Corporate and Other:
Outlook for 2007
     DTE Energy reiterated its 2007 operating earnings guidance excluding synthetic fuel of $2.60 to $2.80 per diluted share. Synthetic fuel is expected to add operating earnings of $0.60 to $1.25 per diluted share in 2007.
     "In 2007 we expect to continue to earn our authorized returns at Detroit Edison and MichCon," said David E. Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and chief financial officer. "As we complete portions of our non-utility restructuring, we are committed to providing updates on our non-utility earnings outlook and our stock and debt buyback progress."
Conference call and webcast information
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of supplemental financial information, is available on the company's website at www.dteenergy.com/investors.
     DTE Energy plans to conduct a conference call with the investment community hosted by Meador at 8:30 a.m. EDT Thursday, May 3, to discuss earnings results and provide a general business update. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live internet broadcast of the meeting at www.dteenergy.com/investors. The telephone dial-in numbers are (866) 564-7439 or (719) 785-9449. There is no passcode. The internet broadcast will be archived on the
 
company's website. An audio replay of the call will be available from 1 p.m. May 3 to May 16. To access the replay, dial (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 and enter passcode 5034767.
     Use of Operating Earnings Information  DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
     Use of Adjusted Cash From Operations  DTE Energy management believes that adjusted cash from operations provide a more meaningful representation of the company's cash from ongoing operations and uses adjusted cash from operations as a primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses adjusted cash from operations to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
     In this release, DTE Energy discusses 2007 operating earnings guidance. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2007 reported results will be excluded from operating results. A reconciliation to the comparable 2007 reported earnings guidance is not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.2 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.3 million customers in Michigan and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on gas pipelines and storage, coal transportation, unconventional gas production and power and industrial projects. Information about DTE Energy is available at dteenergy.com.
     The information contained herein is as of the date of this news release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This news release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially.
     Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the higher price of oil and its impact on the value of production tax credits, or the potential requirement to refund proceeds received from synfuel partners; the uncertainties of successful exploration of gas shale resources and inability to estimate gas reserves with certainty; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; economic climate and population growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws, regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; implementation of electric and gas Customer Choice programs; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes in the cost and availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; effects of competition; impact of regulation by the FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations, including any associated impact on rate structures; contributions to earnings by non-utility subsidiaries; changes in and application of federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism; changes in and application of accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; uncollectible accounts receivable; binding arbitration, litigation and related appeals; changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the Company; and the timing, terms and proceeds from any asset sale or monetization. This news release should also be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in DTE Energy's 2006 Form 10-K (which section is incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy.
     For further information, members of the media may contact:
 
 
 
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Forms 10K and 10Q.
 
 
The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Forms 10K and 10Q.
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Forms 10K and 10Q.
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Forms 10K and 10Q.
 
 
 
Gas Sales  MichCon Service Area (Mcf)
 
 
Gas Revenue  MichCon Service Area ($000s)
 
Cooling Degree Days
Detroit Edison service territory
Heating Degree Days
MichCon service territory


