FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20071210080132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") plans to conduct a conference call for the investment community hosted by Gerard M. Anderson, DTE Energy President and Chief Operating Officer, and David E. Meador, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, at 9 A.M. EST today, to discuss the sale of a portion of its Barnett Shale gas properties to a third party and provide an update on the company's overall non-utility monetization plan. A copy of an associated slide presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K under this heading, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
(d) Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in DTE Energy's 2006 Form 10-K and its 2007 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


