FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20070702171329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
At a meeting held on June 28, 2007, the Board of Directors of DTE Energy Company (the "Company") elected two new directors, W. Frank Fountain, Senior Vice President  External Affairs and Public Policy at DaimlerChrysler AG, effective immediately, and Ruth G. Shaw, retired Group Executive, Public Policy and President, Duke Nuclear at Duke Energy Corporation, effective January 1, 2008. Mr. Fountain and Dr. Shaw fill vacancies created by an increase in the size of the Board of Directors from 11 to 13 members.
The Board of Directors has determined that Mr. Fountain is an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and the Company's independence guidelines. The Board of Directors appointed Mr. Fountain to the Public Responsibility Committee. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Fountain and any person pursuant to which he was selected as a Director. Mr. Fountain is not a party to any transaction subject to Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Board of Directors has also determined that Dr. Shaw is an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and the Company's independence guidelines. The Board of Directors appointed Dr. Shaw to the Nuclear Review Committee, effective January 1, 2008. There is no arrangement or understanding between Dr. Shaw and any person pursuant to which she was selected as a Director. Dr. Shaw is not a party to any transaction subject to Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
In addition, in connection with his election as a director, Mr. Fountain will receive 1,000 shares of restricted stock pursuant to the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan under the Company's non-employee director compensation program. The shares vest three years from the effective date of the grant and require no consideration to be paid by the recipient. Dr. Shaw will receive a similar grant of 1,000 shares of restricted stock when she assumes office in January 2008.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Fountain's and Dr. Shaw's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
At a meeting held on June 28, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Gerardo Norcia as Group President  DTE Energy Company. Mr. Norcia joined DTE Energy Company in 2002 as President of DTE Gas Storage, Pipelines and Processing Company, and was recently elected as President and Chief Operating Officer of Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, each a subsidiary of the Company. Mr. Norcia is responsible for all utility gas operations, and non-utility gas pipelines, processing and storage activities.
 
(d)      Exhibits
 
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 2, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
news release
July 2, 2007
DTE Energy elects two new directors
     DETROIT  W. Frank Fountain, senior vice president at DaimlerChrysler, and Ruth G. Shaw, a former executive at Duke Energy, have been elected to the DTE Energy Board of Directors.
     Fountain is senior vice president of external affairs and public policy at DaimlerChrysler. Based in Auburn Hills, Mich., Fountain is responsible for maintaining and coordinating DaimlerChrysler's interface with state and local governments across the United States. He joined Chrysler Corp. in 1973 as an investment analyst, and has held top leadership positions in the company's corporate controller's office, treasurer's office and government affairs office in Washington, D.C.
     Fountain holds a bachelor's degree in history and political science from Hampton University and an MBA from the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School. He also holds honorary doctorate degrees from Central Michigan University and Eastern Michigan University.
     Shaw recently retired from Duke Energy, where she served as executive advisor to the company's chairman, president and CEO. She joined the company in 1992, and held a number of executive positions, including president of the Duke Energy Foundation, president and CEO of Duke Power Co. and president of Duke Nuclear. Before joining Duke Power, Shaw served as president of Central Piedmont Community College in Charlotte, N.C., and president of El Centro College in Dallas, Texas.
     A native of Danville, Va., Shaw holds bachelor's and master's degrees in English from East Carolina University, and a doctorate in higher educational administration from the University of Texas at Austin, where she was a University Fellow.
     "We are fortunate to be able to add Frank and Ruth to our Board of Directors, and we look forward to working with them," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "Each brings a wealth of knowledge and experience to the table, and we expect their expertise will be invaluable to DTE Energy's future success."
     Fountain will assume his board responsibilities immediately, while Shaw will officially join the board in January 2008.
 
          DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.2 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.3 million customers in Michigan and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on power and industrial projects, coal and gas midstream, unconventional gas production and energy trading. Information about DTE Energy is available at
www.dteenergy.com.
     For further information, members of the media may contact:


