FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20071108172817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
DTE Energy Company is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") with its earnings release issued November 8, 2007, announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. Copies of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, under Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in both of DTE Energy's and The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") 2006 Form 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 8, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Nov. 8, 2007
DTE Energy announces third quarter 2007 earnings
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported third quarter 2007 earnings of $197 million, or $1.19 per diluted share, compared with reported earnings of $188 million, or $1.06 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2006.
     Operating earnings including synfuels for the third quarter 2007 were $181 million, or $1.09 per diluted share, compared with third quarter 2006 operating earnings of $255 million, or $1.44 per diluted share. Operating earnings exclude non-recurring items, certain timing-related items and discontinued operations. Operating earnings decreased primarily due to mark-to-market gains at Energy Trading during third quarter 2006 that were not expected to repeat and 2007 startup and transition costs for new enterprise business systems.
     Year-to-date operating earnings excluding synfuels were $317 million or $1.84 per diluted share, compared with $377 million or $2.12 per diluted share in 2006. Operating earnings in the first three quarters of 2007 decreased primarily due to impacts at Detroit Edison including the one-time enterprise business system startup costs, a temporary rate reduction which expires in April 2008, lower service area sales and higher storm restoration expenditures.
     DTE Energy also reported year-to-date cash flow from operations of approximately $792 million. Including synfuel production payments, adjusted cash from operations was approximately $1.04 billion. Additionally, the company repurchased 14.8 million shares since December 2006, representing approximately $727 million of the expected $900 million share repurchase program.
     "We are confident that we'll meet our updated annual operating earnings per share guidance of $2.50 to $2.65 excluding synfuels," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "When you set aside the one-time items this year, the underlying business is performing well. In addition, the strong cash flow from our successful restructuring of our non-utility businesses and synfuels provides significant flexibility to fund near-term growth."
     Reported earnings for the nine months ended Sept. 30, 2007, were $716 million or $4.15 per diluted share versus $291 million or $1.64 per diluted share in 2006. Reported earnings increased primarily due to the gain from the sale of the company's Antrim Shale gas exploration and production business. Year-to-date operating earnings were $436 million or $2.53 per diluted share, compared with $426 million or $2.40 per diluted share in 2006. Reconciliations of reported earnings to operating earnings for both the quarter ended and nine months ended Sept. 30, 2007 and 2006, are at the end of this news release.
Third quarter 2007 operating earnings results, by segment:
     Operating earnings for Detroit Edison were $0.69 per diluted share versus $0.82 in the third quarter of 2006. Drivers of the variance included the temporary rate reduction agreed to in August 2006 as part of the settlement of the show cause proceeding, enterprise business system startup and transition costs, and increased storm restoration costs in 2007. The temporary rate reduction is approximately $79 million annualized and expires April 13, 2008.
Electric Utility:
     MichCon had a seasonal operating loss of $0.13 per diluted share versus a $0.05 loss in the third quarter of 2006. The quarter-over-quarter variance was driven by enterprise business system startup and transition costs and higher uncollectible expense.
Gas Utility:
 
     Operating earnings in this segment, which includes non-utility gas pipelines and storage as well as coal transportation and marketing, were $0.09 per diluted share versus $0.06 in the third quarter of 2006. The improvement was primarily driven by increased storage margins.
Coal and Gas Midstream:
     Operating earnings from unconventional gas operations were $0.01 per diluted share, equivalent to third quarter 2006 operating earnings, primarily due to increased production from the Barnett Shale offset by the earnings impact from the second quarter sale of the Antrim business.
Unconventional Gas Production:
     Operating earnings from Power and Industrial Projects were $0.02 per diluted share, equivalent to third quarter 2006 operating earnings.
Power and Industrial Projects:
     Energy Trading had operating earnings of $0.27 per diluted share versus $0.36 in the third quarter of 2006. The year-ago quarter included mark to market gains.
Energy Trading:
     Operating earnings from the Synthetic Fuel segment were $0.27 per diluted share compared with $0.28 in the third quarter of 2006. Earnings declined primarily due to higher reserves for potential refunds to partners resulting from tax credit phase outs in 2007 offset by increased production.
Synthetic Fuel:
     The Corporate and Other segment had an operating loss of $0.13 per diluted share compared with a loss of $0.06 in the third quarter of 2006. Driving the performance were higher taxes and interest in 2007.
Corporate and Other:
Outlook for 2007/2008
     On Nov. 2, DTE Energy announced it revised its 2007 operating earnings guidance excluding synfuels to $425 million to $450 million from $450 million to $485 million. The revision was driven primarily by lower-than-expected earnings at Detroit Edison due to enterprise business system startup and transition costs, higher storm restoration expense and a slight decline in electric sales.
     DTE Energy raised its 2007 earnings guidance for its Coal and Gas Midstream and its Power and Industrial Projects segments. Coal and Gas Midstream has benefited from higher gas storage revenue.
     Higher earnings from the Power and Industrial segment resulted from increased sales at several of its projects. The delay in closing the sale of a 50 percent interest in a portfolio of projects also contributed to higher earnings in this segment. The company expects the sale to close by year-end.
     DTE is maintaining its outlook for 2008 and targets an 11 percent return on equity for both Detroit Edison and MichCon next year.
     "With many of the one-time cost pressures behind us by year-end 2007, I remain confident in our plan to produce 5 percent to 6 percent annual utility earnings growth for the foreseeable future," said David E. Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and CFO. "The expiration of the temporary rate reduction in April 2008 and expected resolution of the electric rate case in third quarter 2008 will help Detroit Edison earn its authorized return on equity next year. In addition, MichCon's recent regulatory agreement provides an innovative framework for the company to earn its authorized return over the next two years."
 
Conference call and webcast information
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of supplemental financial information, will be available on the company's website at dteenergy.com/investors.
     DTE Energy plans to conduct a conference call with the investment community hosted by Meador at 9 a.m. EST Friday, Nov. 9, to discuss earnings results and provide a general business update. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live internet broadcast of the meeting at dteenergy.com/investors. The telephone dial-in numbers are (877) 852-6543 or (719) 325-4769. There is no passcode. The internet broadcast will be archived on the company's website. An audio replay of the call will be available from 1 p.m. Nov. 9 to Nov. 23. To access the replay, dial (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 and enter passcode 8401808.
     Use of Adjusted Cash From Operations  DTE Energy management believes that adjusted cash from operations provides a more meaningful representation of the company's cash from ongoing operations and uses adjusted cash from operations as a primary performance measurement for communication with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses adjusted cash from operations to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
     In this release, DTE Energy discusses 2007 operating earnings guidance. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2007 reported results will be excluded from operating results. A reconciliation to the comparable 2007 reported earnings guidance is not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.2 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.3 million customers in Michigan and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on gas pipelines and storage, coal transportation, unconventional gas production and power and industrial projects. Information about DTE Energy is available at dteenergy.com.
     The information contained herein is as of the date of this news release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this news release as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This news release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially.
     Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the higher price of oil and its impact on the value of production tax credits, or the potential requirement to refund proceeds received from synfuel partners; the uncertainties of successful exploration of gas shale resources and inability to estimate gas reserves with certainty; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; economic climate and population growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws, regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance, including potential new federal and state requirements that could include carbon and more stringent mercury emission controls, a renewable portfolio standard and energy efficiency mandates; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments and Customer Choice programs; employee relations and the negotiation and impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes in the cost and availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; effects of competition; impact of regulation by the FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations, including any associated impact on rate structures; contributions to earnings by non-utility subsidiaries; changes in and application of federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism; changes in and application of accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; amounts of uncollectible accounts receivable; binding arbitration, litigation and related appeals; changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the Company; the timing, terms and proceeds from any asset sale or monetization; and implementation of new processes and new core information systems. This news release should also be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in DTE Energy's 2006 Form 10-K and 2007 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy.
 
 
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key
 
Adjustments key
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electric Sales  Detroit Edison Service Area (GWh)
 
Gas Sales  MichCon Service Area (Mcf)
 
Electric Revenue  Detroit Edison Service Area ($000s)
 
Gas Revenue  MichCon Service Area ($000s)
 
Detroit Edison service territory
Cooling Degree Days
MichCon service territory
Heating Degree Days
 


