FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20080221173118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
DTE Energy Company is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") with its earnings release issued February 21, 2008, announcing financial results for the year ended December 31, 2007. Copies of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2006 Forms 10-K and their 2007 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 21, 2008
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Feb. 21, 2008
DTE Energy announces 2007 Results: $5.70 Per Share of Reported Earnings, $2.82 Per Share of Operating Earnings
      Non-utility asset sales drive reported earnings increase
 - 
     DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today announced reported 2007 earnings of $971 million, or $5.70 per diluted share, compared with $433 million, or $2.43 in 2006. The earnings growth was largely due to the sale of the company's Antrim Shale business and an increase in synthetic fuel income.
     "We are pleased with our reported earnings because it reflects the success of our non-utility monetization plan," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy Chairman and CEO. "We recognize, however, that the long-term growth of our utilities, Detroit Edison and MichCon, is the key to our future success. Our core utility businesses are now positioned to deliver strong, sustained earnings.
     "We expect more than 80 percent of our earnings to come from our utilities in 2008 and beyond as we make investments in our utilities to produce clean, reliable and cost-effective energy for our customers. In 2008 we look forward to collaborating with key stakeholders to enact comprehensive energy legislation that will secure Michigan's energy future."
     2007 operating earnings excluding synthetic fuel were $2.82 per diluted share compared with $2.89 in 2006. Earnings increased at the company's MichCon gas utility business primarily due to colder weather, while Power & Industrial Projects showed strong earnings growth primarily due to benefits from project restructuring actions taken in 2006. The repurchase of approximately 13.8 million shares of common stock during 2007 also drove earnings per share higher. These increases were offset by the temporary rate reduction at Detroit Edison and lower earnings at Energy Trading primarily due to the absence of strong earnings recorded in 2006. Reconciliations of reported to operating earnings for both the quarter ended and 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006, are at the end of this news release.
Operating earnings and other results for 2007, by segment:
     Operating earnings for Detroit Edison were $2 per diluted share versus $2.03 in 2006. Drivers of the variance included the temporary rate reduction, which expires in April 2008, computer system start-up costs and higher storm-restoration expense, partially offset by the return of customers from Electric Choice, warmer summer weather and the reconciliation of power supply costs from 2004 and 2005.
Electric Utility:
     Primarily consisting of MichCon, this segment had operating earnings of $0.48 per diluted share compared with $0.36 in 2006. Driving the improvement was favorable weather partially offset by computer system start-up costs.
Gas Utility:
     This segment had operating earnings of $0.31 per diluted share compared with $0.29 in 2006. Higher gas storage revenues were the primary driver for the increase in earnings.
Coal and Gas Midstream:
     Operating earnings for this segment were $0.06 per diluted share compared with $0.05 in 2006, primarily due to higher gas production from the
Unconventional Gas Production:
 
Barnett Shale offset by the impact from the June 2007 sale of the company's Antrim Shale business.
     Operating earnings from Power and Industrial Projects were $0.15 per diluted share compared with an operating loss of $0.04 per diluted share in 2006. Key earnings drivers were increased coke production in 2007 and improved performance from projects restructured in 2006.
Power and Industrial Projects:
     This segment had operating earnings of $0.31 per diluted share compared with $0.54 in 2006. Timing-related gains in 2006 were not repeated in 2007.
Energy Trading:
     This segment had an operating loss of $0.49 per diluted share, compared with a loss of $0.34 in 2006, primarily due to higher single-business tax and interest in 2007.
Corporate and Other:
     As planned, the company classified the synthetic fuel business as a discontinued operation as of Dec. 31, 2007, due to the expiration of production (or Section 29) tax credits. Therefore, synthetic fuel earnings are excluded from operating earnings. This segment had GAAP reported earnings of $1.20 per diluted share versus $0.27 in 2006. This favorable variance was driven by increased production.
Synthetic Fuel:
Outlook for 2008
     DTE Energy reiterated its 2008 operating earnings guidance of $2.70 to $3.10 per diluted share.
     "In 2008, we remain committed to earning our authorized returns at Detroit Edison and MichCon," said David E. Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and chief financial officer. "We delivered $100 million in incremental cost reductions in 2007 and expect that our current continuous improvement initiatives will enable us to provide best-in-class operational efficiency and customer service while producing long-term earnings growth."
Conference call and webcast information
     This earnings announcement, as well as a package of supplemental financial information, is available on the company's website at dteenergy.com/investors.
     DTE Energy plans to conduct a conference call with the investment community hosted by Meador at 9 a.m. EST Friday, Feb. 22, to discuss 2007 earnings results and provide a general business update. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live internet broadcast of the meeting at dteenergy.com/investors. The telephone dial-in numbers are (877) 852-6581 or (719) 325-4759. There is no passcode. The internet broadcast will be archived on the company's website. An audio replay of the call will be available from 1 p.m. Feb. 22 to March 7. To access the replay, dial (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 and enter passcode 4209041.
     A package of slides with supplemental information will be available and archived on the company's website at dteenergy.com/investors.
     DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.2 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.3 million customers in Michigan and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on gas pipelines and storage, coal transportation, unconventional gas production and power and industrial projects. Information about DTE Energy is available at dteenergy.com.
     Use of Operating Earnings Information  In this news release, DTE Energy discusses 2008 operating earnings guidance. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2008 reported results will be excluded from operating results. Reconciliations to the comparable 2008
 
reported earnings guidance is not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
     DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
     The information contained herein is as of the date of this release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially.
     Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the higher price of oil and its impact on the value of production tax credits, or the potential requirement to refund proceeds received from synfuel partners; the uncertainties of successful exploration of gas shale resources and inability to estimate gas reserves with certainty; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; economic climate and population growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws and regulations, and the cost of remediation and compliance, including potential new federal and state requirements that could include carbon and more stringent mercury emission controls, a renewable portfolio standard and energy efficiency mandates; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments and Customer Choice programs; employee relations, and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; changes in the cost and availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; effects of competition; impact of regulation by the FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations, including any associated impact on rate structures; contributions to earnings by non-utility subsidiaries; changes in and application of federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the ability to recover costs through rate increases; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism; changes in and application of accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; amounts of uncollectible accounts receivable; binding arbitration, litigation and related appeals; changes in the economic and financial viability of our suppliers, customers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the Company; timing, terms and proceeds from any asset sale or monetization; and implementation of new processes and new core information systems. This release should also be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's, MichCon's and Detroit Edison's 2006 Form 10-K and 2007 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison.
For further information, members of the media may contact:
Analysts  for further information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
2
 
3
 
The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
4
 
The Consolidated Statement of Operations (Unaudited) should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Forms 10-K and 10-Q.
5
 
6
 
7
 
 
 
Gas Sales  MichCon Service Area (Mcf)
 
Gas Revenue  MichCon Service Area ($000s)
 
Detroit Edison service territory
Cooling Degree Days
MichCon service territory
Heating Degree Days
8
 
 
 
Gas Sales  MichCon Service Area (Mcf)
 
     
Gas Revenue  MichCon Service Area ($000s)
 
Detroit Edison service territory
Cooling Degree Days
MichCon service territory
Heating Degree Days
9


