FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20080919145916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 
     The Michigan House of Representatives and Michigan Senate reached a compromise on a package of bills to establish a sustainable, long-term energy plan for Michigan. The bills passed the House and Senate on bipartisan votes. A summary of key provisions of this legislation can be found posted to the DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") website at www.dteenergy.com and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits
     99.1 Summary of Legislation dated September 19, 2008.
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2007 Forms 10-K and 2008 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Summary of Legislation Passed by the Michigan House of Representatives and Michigan Senate
1
September 19, 2008
Yesterday, the Michigan House of Representatives and Michigan Senate reached a compromise on a package of bills to establish a comprehensive, sustainable, long-term energy plan for Michigan. The bills passed the House and Senate on bipartisan votes. Governor Granholm has 14 days after the bills are enrolled in their respective chambers to sign the bills.
"We applaud the strong leadership of the Michigan legislature and their commitment in implementing a comprehensive energy reform package. These bills provide a solid solution to our energy issues with clear benefits to Michigan's residential customers, businesses, utilities, and our economy," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "More specifically, these bills will ensure clean, affordable and reliable energy for Michigan customers as well as create new jobs as we work to diversify the state's energy resources and spur economic development."
The package of bills includes:
HB 5524  Regulatory Reform
HB 5524 makes the following changes in the regulatory framework for Michigan utilities.
Provisions of the bill include:
 
1
 
SB 213  Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) and Energy Optimization (EO)
Senate Bill 213 establishes a renewable energy and energy optimization (energy efficiency, energy conservation or load management) program in Michigan and provides for a separate funding surcharge to pay the cost of those programs.
Renewable Energy Standard
2
 
Energy Optimization Standard
For further information, please contact DTE Energy's investor relations group at (313) 235-8030.
3


