FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20080514173056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") the financial statements for its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. The financial statements were posted to DTE Energy's website at www.dteenergy.com on May 14, 2008. The financial statements are also furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, under Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
(d) Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in DTE Energy's 2007 Form 10-K and its 2008 quarterly report on Form 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Michigan Consolidated Gas Company
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
 
 
The following table displays other comprehensive income for the three-month periods ended March 31:
 
NOTE 1  GENERAL
These Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2007 Consolidated Financial Statements filed on Form 8-K.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared using accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These accounting principles require us to use estimates and assumptions that impact reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from our estimates.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are unaudited, but in our opinion include all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of such financial statements. All adjustments are of a normal recurring nature, except as otherwise disclosed in these Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial results for this interim period are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008.
References in this report to "Company" are to Michigan Consolidated Gas Company and its subsidiaries, collectively.
Asset Retirement Obligations
The Company records asset retirement obligations in accordance with SFAS No. 143, and FIN 47, . The Company has conditional retirement obligations for gas pipeline retirement costs. To a lesser extent, the Company has conditional asset retirement obligations at certain service centers, and compressor and gate stations. The Company recognizes such obligations as liabilities at fair market value when they are incurred, which generally is at the time the associated assets are placed in service. Fair value is measured using expected future cash outflows discounted at our credit-adjusted risk-free rate.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143
Timing differences arise in the expense recognition of legal asset retirement costs that the Company is currently recovering in rates. The Company defers such differences under SFAS No. 71, .
Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation
A reconciliation of the asset retirement obligations for the three months ended March 31, 2008 follows:
Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets
MichCon sponsors a qualified defined benefit retirement plan for MichCon represented employees (the "MichCon Plan"). MichCon also participates in a qualified defined benefit retirement plan sponsored by Detroit Edison, an affiliated company, for its non-represented employees, which is treated as a plan covering employees of various affiliates of DTE Energy from the affiliates' perspective. We are allocated income or expense each year as a result of our participation in the DTE Energy Company Retirement Plan. Income was approximately $9 million and $8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 and is not reflected in the following tables.
In its April 2005 final rate order, the MPSC approved the deferral of the non-capitalized portion of our negative pension expense. At March 31, 2008 and 2007, we recorded an $80 million and a $47 million regulatory liability, respectively.
 
The following details the components of net periodic benefit costs (credit) for pension benefits and other postretirement benefits for the three months ended March 31:
Income Taxes
The Company's effective income tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2008 was 30% as compared to 26% for the three months ended March 31, 2007. The increase in effective tax rate was primarily attributable to higher state income taxes related to the Michigan Business Tax which was effective January 1, 2008.
Unrecognized tax benefits at March 31, 2008 and at December 31, 2007, if recognized, would not materially impact our effective tax rate. We do not anticipate any significant changes in the unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.
Stock-Based Compensation
Our parent company, DTE Energy, follows SFAS No. 123(R), using the modified prospective transition method. We receive an allocation of costs associated with stock compensation. Our allocations for the quarters ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 for stock-based compensation expense were approximately $1 million and $1 million, respectively.
Share-Based Payment,
Asset losses
Asset losses were $3 million in the first quarter of 2007 representing a disallowance of certain costs related to the acquisition of pipeline assets.
NOTE 2  NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
Fair Value Accounting
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, . SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. It emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement. Fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157. As permitted by FASB Staff Position FAS No. 157-2, the Company has elected to defer the effective date of SFAS No. 157 as it pertains to non-financial assets and liabilities to January 1, 2009. See also Note 3.
Fair Value Measurements
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, . This Statement permits an entity to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. The fair value option established by SFAS No. 159 permits all entities to choose to measure eligible items at fair value at specified election dates. An entity will report in earnings unrealized gains and losses on items, for which the fair value option has been elected, at each subsequent reporting date. The fair value option: (a) may be applied instrument by instrument, with a few exceptions, such as investments otherwise accounted for by the equity method; (b) is irrevocable (unless a new election date occurs); and (c) is applied only to entire instruments and not to portions of instruments. SFAS No. 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007. At January 1, 2008, the Company elected not to use the fair value option for financial assets and liabilities held at that date.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115
Business Combinations
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), to improve the relevance, representational faithfulness and comparability of the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial reports about a business combination and its effects. To accomplish this, SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction; establishes the acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the information needed to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) is applied prospectively to business combinations entered into by the Company after January 1, 2009, with earlier adoption prohibited. The Company will apply the requirements of SFAS No. 141 (R) to business combinations consummated after January 1, 2009.
Business Combinations,
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, This Statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Earlier adoption is prohibited. This Statement shall be applied prospectively as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which this Statement is initially applied, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements. The presentation and disclosure requirements shall be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 160 as of January 1, 2009 and is currently assessing the effects of SFAS No. 160 on its consolidated financial statements.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an Amendment of ARB No. 51.
Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. This Statement requires enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivative and hedging activities. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. Comparative disclosures for earlier periods at initial adoption are encouraged but not required. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 161 on January 1, 2009.
Offsetting Amounts Related to Certain Contracts
In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1, . This FSP permits the Company to offset the fair value of derivative instruments with cash collateral received or paid for those derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. As a result, the Company will be permitted to record one net asset or liability that represents the total net exposure of all derivative positions under a master netting arrangement. The decision to offset derivative positions under master netting arrangements remains an accounting policy choice. The guidance in this FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. It is to be applied retrospectively by adjusting the financial statements for all periods presented. The Company adopted FSP FIN 39-1 as of January 1, 2008. The adoption of this standard did not significantly impact the Company.
Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39
 
NOTE 3  FAIR VALUE
Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157. SFAS No.157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures about fair value measurements. The Company has elected the option to defer the effective date of SFAS No. 157 as it pertains to non-financial assets and liabilities to January 1, 2009.
SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date in a principal or most advantageous market. Fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on inputs, which refer broadly to assumptions that market participants use in pricing assets or liabilities. These inputs can be readily observable, market corroborated or generally unobservable inputs. The Company makes certain assumptions that market participants would use in pricing assets or liabilities, including assumptions about risk, and the risks inherent in the inputs to valuation techniques. The Company believes it uses valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable market-based inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.
SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value in three broad levels. SFAS No. 157 requires that assets and liabilities be classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Assessing the significance of a particular input may require judgment considering factors specific to the asset or liability, and may affect the valuation of the asset or liability and its placement within the fair value hierarchy. The Company classifies fair value balances based on the fair value hierarchy defined by SFAS No.157 as follows:
The following table presents assets and liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis as of March 31, 2008:
 
Employee Benefit Trust Investments
The employee benefit trust investments shown in the fair value table are invested in commingled funds and institutional mutual funds holding equity or fixed income securities. The commingled funds and institutional mutual funds which hold exchange-traded equity securities are valued using quoted prices in actively traded markets. Non-exchange-traded fixed income securities are valued based upon quotations available from brokers or pricing services.
 
Deferred Compensation Liabilities
Deferred compensation plans allow eligible participants to defer a portion of their compensation. The participant is able to designate the investment of the deferred compensation to investments available under the 401(k) plan offered by the Company, although the Company does not actually purchase the investments. The deferred compensation liability is determined based upon the fair values of the mutual funds and equity securities designated in each participant's account.
Derivative Assets and Liabilities
Derivative contracts are comprised of physical forwards, and over-the-counter traded contracts. Various inputs are used to value derivatives depending on the type of contract and availability of market data including commodity market prices, interest rates, credit ratings, default rates, market-based seasonality and basis differential factors. Mathematical valuation models are used for derivatives for which external market data is not readily observable.
NOTE 4  RESTRUCTURING
In 2005, the Company initiated a company-wide review of its operations called the Performance Excellence Process and began a series of focused improvement initiatives. This process continued as of March 31, 2008.
The Company incurred costs to achieve (CTA) restructuring expense for employee severance and other costs. Other costs include project management and consultant support. MichCon cannot defer CTA costs because a recovery mechanism has not been established. MichCon plans to seek a recovery mechanism in its next rate case expected to be filed in 2009. See Note 5.
Amounts expensed are recorded in Operation and maintenance on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Costs incurred for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:
NOTE 5  REGULATORY MATTERS
Regulation
MichCon is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the MPSC, which issues orders pertaining to rates, and recovery of certain costs. These costs include the costs of generating facilities, regulatory assets, conditions of service, accounting, and operating-related matters.
Regulatory Accounting Treatment for Performance Excellence Process
In May 2006, MichCon filed applications with the MPSC to allow deferral of costs associated with the implementation of the Performance Excellence Process, a Company-wide cost-savings and performance improvement program. MichCon sought MPSC authorization to defer and amortize Performance Excellence Process implementation costs for accounting purposes to match the expected savings from the Performance Excellence Process program with the related CTA.
The Performance Excellence Process continued as of March 31, 2008. In September 2006, the MPSC issued an order approving a settlement agreement that allows MichCon, commencing in 2006, to defer the incremental CTA, subject to the MPSC establishing a recovery mechanism in a future rate proceeding. MichCon cannot defer CTA costs because a regulatory recovery mechanism has not been established by the MPSC. MichCon plans to seek a recovery mechanism in its next rate case expected to be filed in 2009.
 
Uncollectible Expense True-Up Mechanism (UETM) and Report of Safety and Training-Related Expenditures
In March 2006, MichCon filed an application with the MPSC for approval of its UETM for 2005. This was the first filing MichCon made under the UETM, which was approved by the MPSC in April 2005 as part of MichCon's last general rate case. MichCon's 2005 base rates included $37 million for anticipated uncollectible expenses. Actual 2005 uncollectible expenses totaled $60 million. The true-up mechanism allowed MichCon to recover 90% of uncollectibles that exceeded the $37 million base. Under the formula prescribed by the MPSC, MichCon recorded an under-recovery of approximately $11 million for uncollectible expenses from May 2005 (when the mechanism took effect) through the end of 2005. In December 2006, the MPSC issued an order authorizing MichCon to implement the UETM monthly surcharge for service rendered on and after January 1, 2007.
2005 UETM 
As part of the March 2006 application with the MPSC, MichCon filed a review of its 2005 annual safety and training-related expenditures. MichCon reported that actual safety and training-related expenditures for the initial period exceeded the pro-rata amounts included in base rates and, based on the under-recovered position, recommended no refund at that time. In the December 2006 order, the MPSC also approved MichCon's 2005 safety and training report.
In March 2007, MichCon filed an application with the MPSC for approval of its UETM for 2006 requesting $33 million of under-recovery plus applicable carrying costs of $3 million. The March 2007 application included a report of MichCon's 2006 annual safety and training-related expenditures, which showed a $2 million over-recovery. In August 2007, MichCon filed revised exhibits reflecting an agreement with the MPSC Staff to net the $2 million over-recovery and associated interest related to the 2006 safety and training-related expenditures against the 2006 UETM under-recovery. An MPSC order was issued in December 2007 approving the collection of $33 million requested in the August 2007 revised filing. MichCon was authorized to implement the new UETM monthly surcharge for service rendered on and after January 1, 2008.
2006 UETM 
 In March 2008, MichCon filed an application with the MPSC for approval of its UETM for 2007 requesting approximately $34 million. This total includes $33 million of costs related to 2007 uncollectible expense and associated carrying charges and $1 million of under-collections for the 2005 UETM. The March 2008 application included a report of MichCon's 2007 annual safety and training-related expenses, which showed no refund was necessary because actual expenditures exceeded the amount included in base rates. MichCon anticipates the MPSC will issue an order authorizing MichCon to implement the monthly UETM surcharge proposed in this filing for service rendered on and after January 1, 2009.
2007 UETM
Gas Cost Recovery Proceedings
In June 2006, MichCon filed its GCR reconciliation for the 2005-2006 GCR year. The filing supported a total over-recovery, including interest through March 2006, of $13 million. MPSC Staff and other interveners filed testimony regarding the reconciliation in which they recommended disallowances related to MichCon's implementation of its dollar cost averaging fixed price program. In January 2007, MichCon filed testimony rebutting these recommendations. In December 2007, the MPSC issued an order adopting the adjustments proposed by the MPSC Staff, resulting in an $8 million disallowance. Expense related to the disallowance was recorded in 2007. The MPSC authorized MichCon to roll a net over-recovery, inclusive of interest, of $20 million into its 2006-2007 GCR reconciliation. In December 2007, MichCon filed an appeal of the case with the Michigan Court of Appeals. MichCon is currently unable to predict the outcome of the appeal.
2005-2006 Plan Year 
In June 2007, MichCon filed its GCR reconciliation for the 2006-2007 GCR year. The filing supported a total under-recovery, including interest through March 2007, of $18 million. In March 2008, the parties reached a settlement agreement that allowed for full recovery of MichCon's GCR costs during the 2006-2007 GCR year. The settlement reflected the $20 million net over-recovery required by the MPSC's order in its 2005-2006 GCR reconciliation. The under-recovery including interest through March 2007 agreed to under the settlement is $9 million and will be included in the 2007-2008 GCR reconciliation. An MPSC order was issued on April 22, 2008 approving the settlement.
2006-2007 Plan Year 
 In August 2006, MichCon filed an application with the MPSC requesting permission to sell base gas that would become accessible with storage facilities upgrades. In December 2006, MichCon filed its 2007-2008 GCR plan case proposing a maximum GCR factor of $8.49 per Mcf. In August 2007, a settlement agreement in this proceeding was reached by all intervening parties that provided for a sharing with
2007-2008 Plan Year / Base Gas Sale Consolidated
 
customers of the proceeds from the sale of base gas. In addition, the agreement provided for a rate case filing moratorium until January 1, 2009, unless certain unanticipated changes occur that impact income by more than $5 million. The settlement agreement was approved by the MPSC in August 2007. MichCon's gas storage enhancement projects, the main subject of the aforementioned settlement, has enabled 17 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of gas to become available for cycling. Under the settlement terms, MichCon delivered 13.4 Bcf of this gas to its customers through 2007 at a savings to market-priced supplies of approximately $54 million. This settlement also provided for MichCon to retain the proceeds from the sale of 3.6 Bcf of gas, which MichCon expects to sell through 2009. During 2007, MichCon sold 0.75 Bcf of base gas and recognized a pre-tax gain of $5 million. There were no sales of base gas in the first quarter of 2008. By enabling MichCon to retain the profit from the sale of this gas, the settlement provides MichCon with the opportunity to earn an 11% return on equity with no customer rate increase for a period of five years from 2005 to 2010.
In December 2007, MichCon filed its GCR plan case for the 2008-2009 GCR Plan year. MichCon filed for a maximum GCR factor of $8.36 per Mcf, adjustable by a contingent mechanism. In March 2008, MichCon made an informational filing documenting the increase in market prices for gas since its December 2007 filing and calculating its new maximum factor of $10.05 per Mcf based on its contingent mechanism. An MPSC order in this case is expected in 2008.
2008-2009 Plan Year 
Other
The Company is unable to predict the outcome of the regulatory matters discussed herein. Resolution of these matters is dependent upon future MPSC orders and appeals, which may materially impact the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company.
NOTE 6  LONG-TERM DEBT
In April 2008, MichCon entered into a Note Purchase Agreement to which it agreed to issue and sell $260 million of Senior Notes to a group of institutional investors in a private placement transaction. Senior notes totaling $185 million were closed and funded in April 2008, with the remaining $75 million expected to close in June 2008.
NOTE 7  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Environmental Matters
 Prior to the construction of major interstate natural gas pipelines, gas for heating and other uses was manufactured locally from processes involving coal, coke or oil. MichCon owns, or previously owned, 14 such former MGP sites. Investigations have revealed contamination related to the by-products of gas manufacturing at each site. In addition to the MGP sites, the Company is also in the process of cleaning up other contaminated sites. Cleanup activities associated with these sites will be conducted over the next several years.
Contaminated Sites
The MPSC has established a cost deferral and rate recovery mechanism for investigation and remediation costs incurred at former MGP sites. At March 31, 2008, MichCon has a liability of approximately $38 million for estimated investigation and remediation costs at former MGP sites and related regulatory assets.
Any significant change in assumptions, such as remediation techniques, nature and extent of contamination and regulatory requirements, could impact the estimate of remedial action costs for the sites and affect the Company's financial position and cash flows. However, the Company anticipates the cost deferral and rate recovery mechanism approved by the MPSC will prevent environmental costs from having a material adverse impact on its results of operations.
Guarantees
In certain limited circumstances, the Company enters into contractual guarantees. The Company may guarantee another entity's obligation in the event it fails to perform. The Company may provide guarantees in certain indemnification agreements. Finally, the Company may provide indirect guarantees for the indebtedness of others. Below are the details of specific material guarantees the Company currently provides.
 
Labor Contracts
There are several bargaining units for the Company's represented employees. In October 2007, a new 3-year agreement was ratified by our represented employees.
Purchase Commitments
As of December 31, 2007, we were party to numerous long-term purchase commitments relating to a variety of goods and services required for our business. These agreements primarily consist of long-term gas purchase and transportation agreements. We estimate that these commitments will be approximately $1.4 billion through 2051. We also estimate that 2008 capital expenditures will be approximately $214 million. We have made certain commitments in connection with expected capital expenditures.
Bankruptcies
The Company sells gas and gas transportation and storage services to numerous companies operating in the steel, automotive, energy, retail and other industries. Certain of the Company's customers have filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Company regularly reviews contingent matters relating to these customers and its purchase and sale contracts, and records provisions for amounts considered at risk of probable loss. Management believes the Company's previously accrued amounts are adequate for probable losses. The final resolution of these matters is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
Other Contingencies
The Company is involved in certain legal, regulatory, administrative and environmental proceedings before various courts, arbitration panels and governmental agencies concerning claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These proceedings include certain contract disputes, additional environmental reviews and investigations, audits, inquiries from various regulators and pending judicial matters. The Company cannot predict the final disposition of such proceedings. The Company regularly reviews legal matters and records provisions for claims it can estimate and which are considered probable of loss. The resolution of these pending proceedings is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's operations or financial statements in the periods they are resolved.
See Note 5 for a discussion of contingencies related to regulatory matters.


