FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20090306103044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 6, 2009, DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") posted a summary of The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") and Michigan Consolidated Gas Company's ("MichCon") Renewable Energy and Energy Optimization Proposals to the DTE Energy website at www.dteenergy.com/investors/update.html. Detroit Edison and MichCon are wholly-owned subsidiaries of DTE Energy.
For a detailed discussion, please see the Summary of Detroit Edison's and MichCon's Renewable Energy and Energy Optimization Proposals dated March 6, 2009, attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Forward-Looking Statements:
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in both of DTE Energy's and The Detroit Edison Company's ("Detroit Edison") 2008 Forms 10-K (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1
Summary of Detroit Edison's and MichCon's Renewable Energy and Energy Optimization Plan Filings
1
March 6, 2009
On March 4, 2009, Detroit Edison filed a renewable energy plan, and MichCon and Detroit Edison filed energy optimization plans with the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC). This document provides a summary of the plans. The full testimony and exhibits of the filings are available on the MPSC's website (http://efile.mpsc.cis.state.mi.us/efile) under case numbers U-15806 and U-15890.
Public Act 295 (PA 295), which was passed by the Michigan legislature in October 2008, calls for Michigan's electric utilities to serve 10 percent of their retail sales with renewable energy by 2015. Detroit Edison's renewable energy plan calls for the company to build approximately half of this capacity, with the rest provided via contracts with third-party producers.
PA 295 also required Detroit Edison and MichCon to implement energy optimization (EO) plans to reduce customer electricity and natural gas usage through energy efficiency and other demand reduction initiatives.
Detroit Edison's Renewable Energy Plan Filing (U-15806-RPS)
 
1
 
Energy Optimization Filings
Detroit Edison Energy Optimization Filing U-15806-EO
2
 
MichCon Energy Optimization Filing U-15890
For further information, please contact DTE Energy's investor relations group at (313) 235-8030.
3
 


