FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20100914080108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 14, 2010, David Meador DTE Energy Company ("DTE Energy") Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Steven Kurmas, The Detroit Edison Company ("Detroit Edison") President and Chief Operating Officer, will meet with groups of investors and give a business presentation in New York City. On September 15, 2010, Mr. Meador and Mr. Kurmas will provide a business update at the Barclays Capital CEO Energy/Power Conference in New York City. The 35-minute presentation is scheduled to start at 11:05 a.m. EDT. The presentation from both meetings is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and will be posted on the DTE Energy website at www.dteenergy.com. The conference audio will be available via webcast through a link on DTE Energy's website at www.dteenergy.com. The webcast replay will be available and archived on the website. In those meetings and in that presentation, DTE Energy reaffirms its 2010 operating earnings per share guidance of $3.45-$3.80 per share.
In its business presentation and this filing, DTE Energy discusses 2010 operating earnings guidance. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2010 reported results will be excluded from operating results. Reconciliations to the comparable 2010 reported earnings guidance are not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2009 Form 10-K and 2010 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 14, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


