FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20100625140038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On June 24, 2010, the Board of Directors of DTE Energy Company (the "Company") elected one new director, David A. Brandon, Director of Intercollegiate Athletics at the University of Michigan, effective immediately. Mr. Brandon fills a vacancy created by an increase in the size of the Board from 14 to 15 directors. The Board of Directors also appointed Mr. Brandon to the Finance Committee. The Board of Directors determined Mr. Brandon is an independent director under New York Stock Exchange listing standards and the Company's Categorical Standards for Director Independence. There is no arrangement between Mr. Brandon and any person pursuant to which he was selected as a director. Mr. Brandon is not a party to any transaction subject to Section 404(a) of Regulation S-K involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Mr. Brandon received 1,000 shares of restricted stock upon his election as a director pursuant to the Company's 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan. The shares vest three years from the effective date of the grant and the recipient is not required to pay any consideration. Mr. Brandon will also participate in the Company's other compensation and benefit programs for non-employee directors which are described on pages 16-17 of the Company's 2010 Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 29, 2010.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing Mr. Brandon's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 25, 2010
DTE ENERGY COMPANY (Registrant)
Lisa A. Muschong Corporate Secretary
/s/ Lisa A. Muschong
 

Exhibit 99.1
June 25, 2010
David Brandon named to DTE Energy board of directors
DETROIT  David Brandon today was named to the DTE Energy board of directors.
Until earlier this year, Brandon, 58, was chairman and CEO of Domino's Pizza, a position he assumed in 1999. In January, he was named athletic director at the University of Michigan. Brandon continues to serve as non-executive chairman at Domino's, a role that includes serving on the board of directors but does not require day-to-day responsibilities with the company.
Brandon formerly was chairman, president and CEO of Valassis Communications Inc. of Livonia. In his 20 years at the marketing and sales promotion firm, the company grew from a family-owned business with 75 employees and $30 million in sales to a publicly traded industry leader with 1,300 employees and a total enterprise value exceeding $2 billion.
"Dave is a great businessman and civic leader. He will be a valuable addition to our board because of his proven track record with successful corporations, board experience, leadership in the southeastern Michigan community and his long history with one of our nation's most respected universities," said Anthony F. Earley Jr., DTE Energy chairman and CEO. "We look forward to his contributions."
Brandon earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in education and teaching certificate from U-M in 1974. He has honorary doctoral degrees from Walsh College, Schoolcraft College, Lawrence Technological University, Cleary College, Albion College, Davenport University and Central Michigan University, where he served as a trustee from 1994-98.
Among his many civic activities, Brandon served an eight-year term on the U-M board of regents in 1998 and served as chairman of the board of Business Leaders for Michigan during its transition from Detroit Renaissance. Brandon also serves on the boards for TJX Companies Inc., Burger King Holdings Inc. and Kaydon Corp.
DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on gas storage and pipelines, unconventional gas production, power and industrial projects, and energy trading. Information about DTE Energy is available at and at twitter.com/dte_energy.
dteenergy.com
For further information, members of the media may contact:
Len Singer, (313) 235-8809
Scott Simons, (313) 235-8808


