FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20100112144841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On January 12, 2010, The Detroit Edison Company (Detroit Edison) posted a summary of the Michigan Public Service Commission's (MPSC) order in its rate cases to the DTE Energy Company (DTE Energy) website at www.dteenergy.com. In the related news release, DTE Energy confirms its 2009 operating earnings per share guidance and confirms DTE Energy's early outlook for 2010 operating earnings. Detroit Edison is a wholly-owned subsidiary of DTE Energy.
     For a detailed discussion, please see the Summary of Detroit Edison's Electric Rate Order dated January 12, 2010 and the related news release which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this report.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On January 11, 2010, the MPSC issued its order in Detroit Edison's electric rate cases. The full text of the order (Case No. U-15768 and Case No. U-15751) is available on the MPSC's website (http://efile.mpsc.cis.state.mi.us/efile/).
     The MPSC order authorizes Detroit Edison to raise its rates by $217 million. In addition, the MPSC's order adopted a pilot revenue decoupling mechanism (RDM) and uncollectible expenses tracking mechanism. The MPSC also ordered the continuation of a restoration and a line clearance tracker and Choice Incentive Mechanism (CIM).
     Detroit Edison previously self-implemented a $280 million rate increase, for a partial year starting in July 2009; therefore, this final order does not result in an additional increase to customer rates. Detroit Edison is required to refund to customers, with interest, the difference between the authorized rate increase and revenue actually collected from customers via the self-implementation surcharge. The 2009 refund amount will not be known until electric sales are final and Detroit Edison has finalized the amount collected during the self-implementation period.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Summary of Detroit Edison's Electric Rate Order dated January 12, 2010.
99.2 Press Release of DTE Energy Company dated January 12, 2010.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2008 Form 10-K and 2009 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 12, 2010
DTE ENERGY COMPANY (Registrant)
Peter B. Oleksiak Vice President, Controller & Investor Relations
/s/ Peter B. Oleksiak                    
THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY (Registrant)
Peter B. Oleksiak Vice President, Controller & Investor Relations
/s/ Peter B. Oleksiak                    
 

Exhibit 99.1
Summary of Detroit Edison's Electric Rate Order (Case U-15768)
1
, DTE Energy Confirms 2009 Earnings Guidance and 2010 Early Outlook
January 12, 2010
On January 11, 2010, the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) issued an order in Detroit Edison's rate case. The full text of the order can be found on the MPSC website at: http://efile.mpsc.state.mi.us/efile/viewcase.php?casenum=15768&submit.x=26&submit.y=15
The MPSC order authorizes Detroit Edison to raise its rates by $217 million. In addition, the MPSC's order adopted a pilot revenue decoupling mechanism (RDM) and uncollectible expenses tracking mechanism. The MPSC also ordered the continuation of a restoration and a line clearance tracker and Choice Incentive Mechanism (CIM).
Detroit Edison previously self-implemented a $280 million rate increase, for a partial year starting in July 2009; therefore, this final order does not result in an additional increase to customer rates. Detroit Edison is required to refund to customers, with interest, the difference between the authorized rate increase and revenue actually collected from customers via the self-implementation surcharge. The 2009 refund amount will not be known until electric sales are final and Detroit Edison has finalized the amount collected during the self-implementation period.
DTE Energy is confirming its 2009 operating earnings guidance of $3.20 to $3.40 per diluted share. The rate increase, combined with the impact of revenue decoupling and other tracking mechanisms, provides solid support for Detroit Edison's 2010 early outlook of $405 million to $435 million in operating earnings and the opportunity to earn its authorized return. In addition, DTE Energy is confirming its 2010 early outlook of $545 million to $610 million in operating earnings and plans to provide additional detail within its year-end 2009 earnings release on Feb. 22.
 
 
 
Reconciliation of MPSC final order from Detroit Edison's original request
 
Summary of Key Components of the Order
2
 
3
 
Total Electric Rate Base ($ in millions)
Capitalization (percent of total capital)
For further information, please contact DTE Energy's investor relations group at (313) 235-8030.
Use of Operating Earnings Information  In this release, DTE Energy discusses 2009 operating earnings guidance and 2010 early outlook. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2009 and 2010 reported results will be excluded from operating results. Reconciliations to the comparable 2009 and 2010 reported earnings guidance are not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
4

Exhibit 99.2
Jan. 12, 2010
DTE Energy Receives Final Order in Detroit Edison Rate Case; Confirms 2009 Earnings Guidance and 2010 Early Outlook
DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) received a final order from the Michigan Public Service Commission in its electric utility rate case. A summary of the order will be available at .
http://www.dteenergy.com/dteEnergyCompany/investors/analystCenter/update.html
DTE Energy is confirming its 2009 operating earnings per share guidance of $3.20 to $3.40 per diluted share.
The rate increase, combined with the impact of revenue decoupling and other tracking mechanisms, provides solid support for Detroit Edison's 2010 early outlook of $405 million to $435 million in operating earnings and the opportunity to earn its authorized return. In addition, DTE Energy is confirming its 2010 early outlook of $545 million to $610 million in operating earnings and plans to provide additional detail within its year-end 2009 earnings release on Feb. 22.
DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.2 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on gas pipelines and storage, coal transportation, unconventional gas production, and power and industrial projects. Information about DTE Energy is available at dteenergy.com.
Use of Operating Earnings Information  In this release, DTE Energy discusses 2009 operating earnings guidance and 2010 early outlook. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2009 and 2010 reported results will be excluded from operating results. Reconciliations to the comparable 2009 and 2010 reported earnings guidance are not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
The information contained herein is as of the date of this release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially.
Many factors may impact forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, the following: the length and severity of ongoing economic decline resulting in lower demand, customer conservation and increased thefts of electricity and gas; changes in the economic and financial viability of our customers, suppliers, and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the Company; high levels of uncollectible accounts receivable; access to capital markets and capital market conditions and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; instability in capital markets which could impact availability of short and long-term financing; potential for continued loss on investments, including nuclear decommissioning and benefit plan assets and the related increases in future expense and contributions; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance and stability of insurance providers; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; economic climate and population growth or decline in the geographic areas where we do business; environmental issues, laws, regulations, and the increasing costs of remediation and compliance, including actual and potential new federal and state requirements that could include carbon and more stringent mercury emission controls, a renewable portfolio standard, energy efficiency mandates, and a carbon tax or cap and trade structure; nuclear regulations and operations associated with nuclear facilities; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments and Customer Choice programs; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; changes in the cost and availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; volatility in the short-term natural gas storage markets impacting third-party storage revenues; cost reduction efforts and the maximization of plant and distribution system performance; the effects
 
of competition; the uncertainties of successful exploration of gas shale resources and challenges in estimating gas reserves with certainty; impact of regulation by the FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations, including any associated impact on rate structures; changes in and application of federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the amount and timing of cost recovery allowed as a result of regulatory proceedings, related appeals or new legislation; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism; changes in and application of accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; and binding arbitration, litigation and related appeals. New factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict what factors may arise or how such factors may cause our results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Any forward-looking statements refer only as of the date on which such statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. This presentation should also be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" section in each of DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2008 Forms 10-K and 2009 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison.
#     #     #
For further information, members of the media may contact:
Scott Simons (313) 235-8808 Len Singer (313) 235-8809
Analysts  for further information:
Dan Miner (313) 235-5525 Lisa Muschong (313) 235-8505


