FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20100922170541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 5.04. Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans.
DTE Energy Company (the "Company") will be changing the recordkeeper for each of the savings plans listed below, (the "Savings Plans") from Fidelity Investments to J.P. Morgan Retirement Plan Services effective November 9, 2010.
As a result of this change, Savings Plans participants and beneficiaries will be unable to direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts or to obtain a distribution from the Savings Plans for a period while the services are being transitioned. The blackout period for the Savings Plans will begin at 4 p.m. Eastern Time on November 2, 2010 and end during the week of November 14, 2010 (such period, the "Blackout Period").
On September 22, 2010, the Company sent notice of the Blackout Period (the "Blackout Period Notice") to the members of its Board of Directors and executive officers pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Section 104 of Regulation BTR of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, informing them that they would be prohibited during the Blackout Period from purchasing and selling shares of the Company's common stock (including derivative securities pertaining to such shares) that they acquire or have previously acquired in connection with their service or employment as a director or executive officer of the Company.
A copy of the Blackout Period Notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. During the Blackout Period and for a period of two years after the ending date of the Blackout Period, security holders or other interested persons may obtain, without charge, information about the actual beginning and ending dates of the Blackout Period and other information regarding the Blackout Period by contacting Lisa A. Muschong, Corporate Secretary, by telephone at (313) 235-8870 or in writing, at DTE Energy Company, One Energy Plaza, Detroit, MI 48226.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 22, 2010
DTE ENERGY COMPANY (Registrant)
Bruce D. Peterson Senior Vice President and General Counsel
/s/ Bruce D. Peterson                                    
 

Exhibit 99.1
Reasons for the Notice and the Blackout Period
The purpose of this notice is to inform you of an impending "blackout period" under the savings plans listed below (together, the "Savings Plans"), which is required because the Savings Plans will be changing recordkeepers from Fidelity Investments to J.P. Morgan Retirement Plan Services effective November 9, 2010.
During this blackout period, you may not engage in transactions involving any equity securities of DTE Energy Company (the "Company") that you acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer of the Company.
This blackout period applies to you whether or not you participate in the Savings Plans described above.
Length of the Blackout Period
The blackout period for the Savings Plans will begin at 4 p.m. Eastern Time on November 2, 2010 and end during the week of November 14, 2010.
Restrictions on Savings Plan Participants
Savings Plans participants and beneficiaries will be unable to direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts or to obtain a distribution from the Savings Plans for a period while the services are being transitioned.
1
Further Restrictions on Directors and Executive Officers During the Blackout Period
During the Savings Plan blackout period, directors and executive officers of the Company will be subject to the trading restrictions imposed under Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Regulation BTR. Subject to limited exceptions, these restrictions generally prohibit the direct or indirect purchase, sale, or other acquisition or transfer of any of the Company's equity securities that you acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer of the Company.
                               
 
Please note the following:
If you engage in a transaction that violates these trading blackout restrictions, you can be required to disgorge your profits from the transaction and you could be subject to other penalties.
Questions or Additional Information
The limitations described above apply in addition to the other restrictions on trading activity under the Company's policies on insider trading. In order to avoid any inadvertent violations of the blackout period restrictions, you should continue to direct questions about, and requests for pre-clearance of, your transactions in the Company's securities in accordance with our standard procedures.
In addition, during the blackout period, you may obtain, without charge, information about the blackout period, including whether the blackout period has begun or ended, by contacting Lisa A. Muschong, Corporate Secretary, by telephone at (313) 235-8870, or Bruce D. Peterson, Senior Vice President and General Counsel at (313) 235-5616, or in writing, at DTE Energy Company, One Energy Plaza, Detroit, MI 48226.


