FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20111104070114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
DTE Energy Company (DTE Energy) is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with its earnings release issued November 4, 2011, announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. Copies of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference. In its earnings release and the slide presentation discussed below, DTE Energy narrowed its 2011 operating earnings per share guidance to $3.50-$3.70 per share.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
DTE Energy is furnishing the SEC with its slide presentation issued November 4, 2011. A copy of the slide presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
In its earnings release, slide presentation and this filing, DTE Energy discusses 2011 operating earnings guidance. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2011 reported results will be excluded from operating results. Reconciliations to the comparable 2011 reported earnings guidance are not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and 99.3, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
:
Forward-Looking Statements
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" sections in DTE Energy's and The Detroit Edison Company's (Detroit Edison) 2010 Forms 10-K and 2011 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 4, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
November 4, 2011
DTE Energy reports third quarter 2011 results; narrows 2011 earnings guidance
DETROIT  DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported third quarter 2011 earnings of $183 million, or $1.07 per diluted share, compared with $163 million, or $0.96 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2010.
Operating earnings for the third quarter 2011 were $183 million, or $1.07 per diluted share, compared with third quarter 2010 operating earnings of $163 million, or $0.96 per diluted share. Operating earnings increased primarily due to improved results at Energy Trading and Corporate & Other, partially offset by lower earnings at Power & Industrial Projects, Detroit Edison and MichCon. Operating earnings exclude non-recurring items and discontinued operations. Reconciliations of reported earnings to operating earnings are at the end of this news release.
"DTE Energy delivered good results in the third quarter, and we are on track to achieve our 2011 goals," said Gerard M. Anderson, DTE Energy chairman, president and CEO. "Our aspiration is to be the best operated energy company in North America and our employees take great pride in finding opportunities to control costs, strengthen operating performance, and improve our customers' experiences with DTE Energy."
Reported earnings for the first nine months ended September 30, 2011 were $561 million or $3.30 per diluted share versus $478 million or $2.84 per diluted share in 2010. Year-to-date operating earnings were $482 million or $2.83 per diluted share, compared with $458 million or $2.72 per diluted share in 2010.
Outlook for 2011
DTE Energy narrowed its 2011 operating earnings guidance to $3.50 to $3.70 per diluted share from $3.40 to $3.70 per diluted share.
"With our solid operational and financial performance through the first nine months of the year, we are able to confidently narrow our operating earnings guidance range for 2011," said David E. Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and chief financial officer. "Looking beyond 2011, we will continue to execute on our utility and non-utility growth strategies, and are committed to being a force for growth and prosperity in the communities we serve."
Earlier this year, DTE Energy joined a number of prominent companies across the state to become part of the Pure Michigan Business Initiative, a public-private venture to help perpetuate the philosophy of "economic gardening" in Michigan. The company committed to increasing purchases of goods and services from Michigan-based companies by $750 million over the next five years. As an example of this commitment, Meador pointed to DTE Energy's recent groundbreaking of the Gratiot County Wind Farm, which when operational will generate clean, renewable energy for more than 50,000 Michigan homes. This project, which is being constructed by a Livonia, Michigan-based company, will provide over 200 temporary and permanent jobs and yield long-term economic benefits to the community.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of slides and supplemental information, is available at www.dteenergy.com.
DTE Energy plans to conduct a conference call with the investment community hosted by Meador at 9:00 a.m. EDT Friday, November 4, to discuss third quarter earnings results. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live internet broadcast of the meeting at www.dteenergy.com. The telephone dial-in numbers are US/CAN Toll free: (877) 723-9509 or Int'l Toll: (719) 325-4750. The passcode is 6196954. The internet broadcast will be archived on the company's website. An audio replay of the call will be available from noon today to November 18. To access the replay, dial (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 and enter passcode 6196954.
 
DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan, and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on gas storage and pipelines, unconventional gas production, power and industrial projects, and energy trading. Information about DTE Energy is available at www.dteenergy.com.
Use of Operating Earnings Information  DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
In this release, DTE Energy discusses 2011 operating earnings guidance. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2011 reported results will be excluded from operating results. Reconciliations to the comparable 2011 reported earnings guidance are not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
The information contained herein is as of the date of this release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "projected" and "goals" signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially.
Many factors may impact forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, the following: economic conditions and population changes in our geographic area resulting in changes in demand, customer conservation, increased thefts of electricity and gas and high levels of uncollectible accounts receivable; changes in the economic and financial viability of suppliers and trading counterparties, and the continued ability of such parties to perform their obligations to the Company; access to capital markets and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; instability in capital markets which could impact availability of short and long-term financing; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; the potential for losses on investments, including nuclear decommissioning and benefit plan assets and the related increases in future expense and contributions; impact of regulation by the FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations, including any associated impact on rate structures; the amount and timing of cost recovery allowed as a result of regulatory proceedings; the potential for increased costs or delays in completion of significant construction projects; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; environmental issues, laws, regulations, and the increasing costs of remediation and compliance, including actual and potential new federal and state requirements; health, safety, financial, environmental and regulatory risks associated with ownership and operation of nuclear facilities; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments and Customer Choice programs; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; unplanned outages; changes in the cost and availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; volatility in the short-term natural gas storage markets impacting third-party storage revenues; cost reduction efforts and the maximization of plant and distribution system performance; the effects of competition; the uncertainties of successful exploration of unconventional gas resources and challenges in estimating gas and oil reserves with certainty; changes in and application of federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits, related appeals or new legislation; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism or cyber attacks; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance and stability of insurance providers; changes in and application of accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; binding arbitration, litigation and related appeals; and risks discussed in public filings with the SEC. New factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict what factors may arise or how such factors may cause our results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Any forward-looking statements refer only as of the date on which such statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. This presentation should also be read in conjunction with the "Forward-Looking Statements" sections in each of DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2010 Forms 10-K and 2011 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison.
For further information, members of the media may contact: Scott Simons, (313) 235-8808 Len Singer, (313) 235-8809
Analysts  for further information:
Kurt Wasiluk, (313) 235-7726 Mark Rolling, (313) 235-7663
 
DTE Energy Company
Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited)
 
DTE Energy Company Segment Net Income (Unaudited)
 
DTE Energy Company Segment Diluted Earnings Per Share (Unaudited)
 
DTE Energy Company Segment Net Income (Unaudited)
Adjustments key
 
DTE Energy Company Segment Diluted Earnings Per Share (Unaudited)
Adjustments key

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electric Sales  Detroit Edison Service Area (GWh)
Electric Revenue  Detroit Edison Service Area ($000s)
Gas Sales  MichCon Service Area (MMcf)
Gas Revenue  MichCon Service Area ($000s)
Detroit Edison service territory
Cooling Degree Days
MichCon service territory
Heating Degree Days
Variance from normal weather ($millions, after-tax)
Earnings Impact of Weather
Colder weather increased MichCon's earnings by $1M Q3 2011
 
Electric Sales  Detroit Edison Service Area (GWh)
Electric Revenue  Detroit Edison Service Area ($000s)
Gas Sales  MichCon Service Area (MMcf)
Gas Revenue  MichCon Service Area ($000s)
Detroit Edison service territory
Cooling Degree Days
MichCon service territory
Heating Degree Days
Variance from normal weather ($millions, after-tax)
Earnings Impact of Weather
Colder weather increased MichCon's earnings by $11M YTD 2011
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


