FILE:DTE/DTE-8K-20120727070028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
_____________________________
FORM 8-K
_____________________________
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 27, 2012
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02.
    
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
DTE Energy Company (DTE Energy) is furnishing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with its earnings release issued July 27, 2012, announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. Copies of the earnings release and the financial information distributed for media and investor relations communications are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference. In its earnings release and the slide presentation discussed below, DTE Energy reaffirms its 2012 operating earnings per share guidance of $3.65-$3.95 per share.
Item 7.01.
    
Regulation FD Disclosure.
DTE Energy is furnishing the SEC with its slide presentation issued July 27, 2012. A copy of the slide presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
In its earnings release, slide presentation and this filing, DTE Energy discusses 2012 operating earnings guidance. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2012 reported results will be excluded from operating results. Reconciliations to the comparable 2012 reported earnings guidance are not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and 99.3, shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth in such a filing.
Item 9.01.
    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Forward-Looking Statements
:
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. It should be read in conjunction with the Forward-Looking Statements section in DTE Energy's and The Detroit Edison Company's (Detroit Edison) 2011 Forms 10-K and 2012 Forms 10-Q (which sections are incorporated by reference herein), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison that discuss important factors that could cause DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's actual results to differ materially. DTE Energy and Detroit Edison expressly disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report as a result of new information or future events or developments.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 27, 2012
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
    
DTE Energy reports second quarter 2012 results
DETROIT - DTE Energy (NYSE:DTE) today reported second quarter 2012 earnings of $146 million, or $0.86
per diluted share, compared with $202 million, or $1.19 per diluted share in 2011. Reported earnings in the second quarter of 2011 include an $88 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, adjustment to reduce income tax expense. This non-cash income tax benefit was the result of the enactment of the Michigan Corporate Income Tax in May of 2011 and the related remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities at our non-utility businesses.
Operating earnings for the second quarter 2012 were $146 million, or $0.86 per diluted share, compared with 2011 operating earnings of $111 million, or $0.65 per diluted share. Operating earnings exclude non-recurring items and discontinued operations. Reconciliations of reported earnings to operating earnings are at the end of this news release.
Record-setting high temperatures in our service territory provided an increase in demand at our electric utility, said Gerard M. Anderson, DTE Energy chairman, president and CEO. The hot weather and severe storms we've seen so far this summer are reminders of why DTE Energy's plan to invest $1.4 billion in our distribution system reliability over the next five years is so important.
Anderson also highlighted new investments in renewable energy. Last month, we started full commercial operation of the Gratiot County Wind Park, Michigan's largest wind project, which will provide the power to serve the equivalent of more than 50,000 homes. We have an additional four wind parks under construction in Michigan's thumb region that will more than double that capacity by the end of 2013. These are good examples of our ongoing commitment to invest in renewable energy.
Reported earnings for the first six months ended June 30, 2012 were $302 million or $1.77 per diluted share versus $378 million or $2.23 per diluted share in 2011. Year-to-date operating earnings were $302
million or $1.77 per diluted share, compared with $299 million or $1.76 per diluted share in 2011.
Outlook for 2012
DTE Energy reiterated its 2012 operating earnings guidance of $3.65 to $3.95 per diluted share.
Increased electricity usage so far this summer has boosted operating earnings and helped to offset the impact the warm first quarter had on our gas utility's earnings, said David E. Meador, DTE Energy executive vice president and chief financial officer. We remain on track to meet our financial goals for 2012.
 
Meador also provided an update on DTE Energy's commitment to the State of Michigan as part of the Pure Michigan Business Connect initiative to increase spending on goods and services with Michigan-based suppliers. We are off to a great start on our 2012 target of $575 million, with $346 million of Michigan spend through June, said Meador. This is an $81 million increase over year-to-date June 2011 and illustrates DTE Energy's commitment to be a force for growth and prosperity in our state.
This earnings announcement, as well as a package of slides and supplemental information, is available at
www.dteenergy.com
.
DTE Energy plans to conduct a conference call with the investment community hosted by Meador at 9:00 a.m. EDT Friday, July 27, to discuss second quarter 2012 earnings results. Investors, the news media and the public may listen to a live internet broadcast of the call at www.dteenergy.com/investors. The telephone dial-in numbers are US/CAN Toll free: (800) 419
-
9895 or Int'l Toll: (913) 312-0643. The passcode is 4907918. The
internet broadcast will be archived on the company's website. An audio replay of the call will be available from noon today to August 10. To access the replay, dial (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 and enter passcode 4907918.
DTE Energy is a Detroit-based diversified energy company involved in the development and management of energy-related businesses and services nationwide. Its operating units include Detroit Edison, an electric utility serving 2.1 million customers in Southeastern Michigan, MichCon, a natural gas utility serving 1.2 million customers in Michigan, and other non-utility, energy businesses focused on gas storage and pipelines, unconventional gas production, power and industrial projects, and energy trading. Information about DTE Energy is available at
www.dteenergy.com
.
Use of Operating Earnings Information - DTE Energy management believes that operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's earnings from ongoing operations and uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement for external communications with analysts and investors. Internally, DTE Energy uses operating earnings to measure performance against budget and to report to the Board of Directors.
In this release, DTE Energy discusses 2012 operating earnings guidance. It is likely that certain items that impact the company's 2012 reported results will be excluded from operating results. Reconciliations to the comparable 2012 reported earnings guidance are not provided because it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of specific line items. These items may fluctuate significantly from period to period and may have a significant impact on reported earnings.
The information contained herein is as of the date of this release. DTE Energy expressly disclaims any current intention to update any forward-looking statements contained in this release as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as anticipate, believe, expect, projected and goals signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and conditions but rather are subject to various assumptions, risks and uncertainties. This release contains forward-looking statements about DTE Energy's financial results and estimates of future prospects, and actual results may differ materially.
Many factors may impact forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, the following: impact of regulation by the FERC, MPSC, NRC and other applicable governmental proceedings and regulations, including any associated impact on rate structures; the amount and timing of cost recovery allowed as a result of regulatory proceedings, related appeals or new legislation; impact of electric and gas utility restructuring in Michigan, including legislative amendments and Customer Choice programs; economic conditions and population changes in our geographic area resulting in changes in demand, customer conservation, increased thefts of electricity and gas and high levels of uncollectible accounts receivable; environmental issues, laws, regulations, and the increasing costs of remediation and compliance, including actual and potential new federal and state requirements; health, safety, financial, environmental and regulatory risks associated with ownership and operation of nuclear facilities; changes in the cost and availability of coal and other raw materials, purchased power and natural gas; volatility in the short-term natural gas storage markets impacting third-party storage revenues; access to capital markets and the results of other financing efforts which can be affected by credit agency ratings; instability in capital markets which could impact availability of short and long-term financing; the timing and extent of changes in interest rates; the level of borrowings; the potential for losses on investments, including nuclear decommissioning and benefit plan assets and the related increases in future expense and contributions; the potential for increased costs or delays in completion of significant construction projects; the uncertainties of successful exploration of unconventional gas and oil resources and challenges in estimating gas and oil reserves with certainty; changes in and application of federal, state and local tax laws and their interpretations, including the Internal Revenue Code, regulations, rulings, court proceedings and audits; the effects of weather and other natural phenomena on operations and sales to customers, and purchases from suppliers; unplanned outages; the cost of protecting assets against, or damage due to, terrorism or cyber attacks; employee relations and the impact of collective bargaining agreements; the availability, cost, coverage and terms of insurance and stability of insurance providers; cost reduction efforts and the maximization of plant and distribution system performance; the effects of competition; changes in and application of accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; changes in federal or state laws and their interpretation with respect to regulation, energy policy and other business issues; binding arbitration, litigation and related appeals; and the risks discussed in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. New factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict what factors may arise or how such factors may cause our results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Any forward-looking statements refer only as of the date on which such statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. This presentation should also be read in conjunction with the Forward-Looking Statements sections in each of DTE Energy's and Detroit Edison's 2011 Forms 10-K and 10-Q (which sections are incorporated herein by reference), and in conjunction with other SEC reports filed by DTE Energy and Detroit Edison.
# # #
For further information, members of the media may call:
Scott Simons (313) 235-8808
        
Len Singer (313) 235-8809
        
Analysts, for further information call:
Mark Rolling (313) 235-7663
        
Kurt Wasiluk (313) 235-7726
    
                                    

Exhibit 99.2
DTE ENERGY COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION (UNAUDITED)
DTE ENERGY COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION (UNAUDITED)  (Continued)
DTE ENERGY COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
THE DETROIT EDISON COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
MICHIGAN CONSOLIDATED GAS COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
DTE Energy Debt/Equity Calculation
As of June 30, 2012
($ millions)

Exhibit 99.3


