FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20030814123256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following supplemental historical financial statements and schedules are furnished as Exhibits to this Report and reflect (a) the classification of Musicland as discontinued operations and (b) the change in the registrant's method of accounting for vendor allowances, in each case, as if such changes were in effect as of and for the dates indicated. This supplemental historical information is being furnished voluntarily in order to facilitate analysis by investors and other users of the registrant's financial statements.
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, the registrant committed to a plan to sell its interest in The Musicland Group, Inc. (Musicland). In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, Musicland's operating results were classified and reported separately for the year ended March 1, 2003, as discontinued operations. Also during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, the registrant changed its method of accounting for vendor allowances with the change accounted for as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. On March 31, 2003, the registrant issued a news release that provided comparative consolidated statements of earnings for the first three quarters of fiscal 2003, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 and fiscal year 2002. Similar comparative consolidated statements of earnings for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 and fiscal year 2003 were included in a separate news release issued on April 1, 2003. The full text of the aforementioned news releases were also contained in separate Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 3, 2003, and April 7, 2003, respectively.
Pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure," Best Buy Co., Inc. is furnishing supplemental historical financial information including: Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets as of August 31, 2002, and November 30, 2002; Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the three and six months ended August 31, 2002; Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the three and nine months ended November 30, 2002; Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the six and nine months ended August 31, 2002, and November 30, 2002; and fiscal 2003 business segment financial information for continuing operations. The supplemental historical financial statements and schedules are being furnished in order to facilitate analysis by investors and other users of the registrant's financial statements. The financial information referred to above is included as Exhibit Nos. 99.1-99.5 to this Report and is also available on the registrant's Web site by clicking on the "For Our Investors" link.
Best Buy Co., Inc.'s Web site (www.bestbuy.com) contains important information about the registrant, including financial and other information for investors. The registrant encourages investors periodically to visit its Web site, as information is updated and new information is posted.
Best Buy Co., Inc.'s Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Best Buy Co., Inc. Supplemental Historical Information* Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
($ in millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
 
*Note: This presentation reflects: (a) the classification of Musicland as discontinued operations; and (b) the adoption of the accounting principle established in EITF Issue No. 02-16, in each case, as if such changes were in effect as of and for the dates indicated. Certain other amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
Accounting by a Reseller for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor,

Exhibit 99.2
 
Best Buy Co., Inc. Supplemental Historical Information* Consolidated Statements of Earnings
($ in millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited)
 
*Note: This presentation reflects: (a) the classification of Musicland as discontinued operations; and (b) the adoption of the accounting principle established in EITF Issue No. 02-16, in each case, as if such changes were in effect as of and for the dates indicated.
Accounting by a Reseller for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor,
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
Best Buy Co., Inc.
Supplemental Historical Information* Consolidated Statements of Earnings
($ in millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited)
 
*Note: This presentation reflects: (a) the classification of Musicland as discontinued operations; and (b) the adoption of the accounting principle established in EITF Issue No. 02-16, , in each case, as if such changes were in effect as of and for the dates indicated.
Accounting by a Reseller for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor

Exhibit 99.4
 
Best Buy Co., Inc. Supplemental Historical Information* Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
($ in millions) (Unaudited)
 
*Note: This presentation reflects: (a) the classification of Musicland as discontinued operations; and (b) the adoption of the accounting principle established in EITF Issue No. 02-16, , in each case, as if such changes were in effect as of and for the dates indicated. Certain other amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
Accounting by a Reseller for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor
 

Exhibit 99.5
 
Best Buy Co., Inc.
Supplemental Historical Information*
Fiscal 2003 Business Segment Financial Information for Continuing Operations
($ in millions)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
(1)
Includes revenue at stores and Internet sites operating for at least 14 full months, as well as remodeled and expanded locations. Relocated stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of acquisition. The calculation of the comparable store sales change excludes the impact of fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates. The calculation of the comparable store sales change excludes Musicland revenue, which is included in discontinued operations.
 
*Note: This presentation reflects: (a) the classification of Musicland as discontinued operations; and (b) the adoption of the accounting principle established in EITF No. 02-16,
Accounting by a Reseller for Cash Consideration Received from a Vendor,
in each case, as if such changes were in effect as of and for the dates indicated
.
 


