FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20040130155910.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC  20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
 
 
 
N/A
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure," information is being furnished with respect to Best Buy Co., Inc.'s press release, issued on January 30, 2004, announcing that the registrant was served on January 27, 2004, with a shareholder derivative action venued in Hennepin County, State of Minnesota District Court, alleging violations of state law relative to fiduciary responsibilities, control and management of the company, and unjust enrichment.
 
The press release issued on January 30, 2004, is furnished as Exhibit No. 99 to this Report. Best Buy Co., Inc.'s Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit No. 99
For Immediate Release
 
 
Best Buy Announces Shareholder Lawsuit
 
MINNEAPOLIS, Jan. 30, 2004 Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE: BBY) today said that it was served on Jan. 27, 2004, with a shareholder derivative action venued in Hennepin County, State of Minnesota District Court. This case raises many factual matters similar to those raised in the federal securities law cases previously filed with the Minnesota Federal District Court. The state court action alleges violations of state law relative to fiduciary responsibilities, control and management of the Company and unjust enrichment. The Company believes the case is without merit, as are the federal securities law cases, and intends to defend vigorously against this action.
 
Statements made in this news release, other than those concerning historical financial information, should be considered forward-looking and subject to various risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions regarding information currently available, and are made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause results to vary include, among others, those expressed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company has no obligation to publicly update or revise any of the forward-looking statements that may be in this news release.
 
About Best Buy Co., Inc.
Minneapolis-based Best Buy Co., Inc. is North America's leading specialty retailer of consumer electronics, personal computers, entertainment software and appliances. The Company's subsidiaries operate retail stores and/or Web sites under the names: Best Buy (BestBuy.com), Future Shop (FutureShop.ca), Geek Squad (GeekSquad.com), and Magnolia Audio Video (MagnoliaAV.com). The Company's subsidiaries reach consumers through approximately 750 retail stores in the United States and Canada.
 


