FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20080618092335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
ITEM 1.01
    
ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
 
As reported on its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 1, 2008, Best Buy Co., Inc. ("Best Buy" or the "registrant") has a $2.5 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and a syndicate of banks.  The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of the registrant and contains customary affirmative and negative covenants.  Among other things, these covenants restrict or prohibit the registrant and/or certain of its subsidiaries from incurring certain types or amounts of indebtedness, creating liens on certain assets, making material changes to its corporate structure or the nature of its business, disposing of material assets, allowing non-material subsidiaries to make guarantees, engaging in a change in control transaction, or engaging in certain transactions with its affiliates.
 
The registrant previously announced its intention to consummate certain transactions with The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC ("The Carphone Warehouse") as reported on its Current Reports on Form 8-K and Form 8-K/A filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on May 8, 2008, May 13, 2008 and June 12, 2008 (collectively the "Previous Reports").  The contents of the Previous Reports are incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
On June 17, 2008, Best Buy entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement (the "Amendment") to facilitate the consummation of the transactions described in the Previous Reports with The Carphone Warehouse and to provide exceptions to the restrictions on the incurrence of certain indebtedness and creation of certain liens.  The full text of the Amendment is attached as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 9.01
          
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 (d) 
Exhibits
 
The following Exhibit is filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
FIRST AMENDMENT, dated as of June 17, 2008 (this ""), to the CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of September 19, 2007 (the ""), among BEST BUY CO., INC., a Minnesota corporation (the ""), the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, the Lenders party thereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement shall be used in this Amendment with their defined meanings unless otherwise defined herein.
Amendment
Credit Agreement
Borrower
 
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders enter into this Amendment; and
 
WHEREAS, each of the parties hereto is willing to enter into this Amendment on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
AMENDMENTS TO CREDIT AGREEMENT.
I.
 
Effective as of the Amendment Effective Date (as defined below), the Credit Agreement shall be amended as follows:
 
1.   . References in the Credit Agreement (including references to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby) to "this Agreement" (and indirect references such as "hereunder", "hereby", "herein" and "hereof") shall be deemed to be references to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
References Generally
 
2.   . Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following definitions in the appropriate alphabetical order:
Amendment to Section 1.01  New Definitions
 
"" means any Subsidiary of the Borrower that is not organized under the laws of the United States of America or any jurisdiction therein.
Foreign Subsidiary
 
"" means the initial purchase price paid by the Borrower with respect to its acquisition of 50% of the Equity Interests in UK Distribution Holdings as disclosed in the Borrower's Exchange Act disclosure documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10K, 10Q or 8K (or their equivalents).
Initial Purchase Price
 
"" means goods held for sale, lease or use by a Person in the ordinary course of business, net of any reserve for goods that have been segregated by such Person to be returned to the applicable vendor for credit, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Inventory
 
"" means, for any Person: (a) the acquisition (whether for cash, property, services or securities or otherwise) of capital stock, bonds, notes, debentures, partnership or other ownership interests or other securities of, or the making of any capital contribution to, any other Person or any agreement to make any such acquisition, (b) the making of any deposit with, or advance, loan or other extension of credit to, any other Person (including the purchase of property
Investments
 
 
from another Person subject to an understanding or agreement, contingent or otherwise, to resell such property to such Person), and (c) the entering into of any Guarantee of, or other contingent obligation with respect to, Indebtedness or other liabilities of any other Person (provided that for purposes of Section 7.08, the amount of any such Guarantee or contingent obligation shall equal the then outstanding amount of the Indebtedness or other liabilities subject thereto).
 
the Borrower or such Subsidiary as accounts receivable, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
"" means all rights of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to payments (whether constituting accounts, chattel paper, instruments, general intangibles or otherwise, and including the right to payment of any interest or finance charges), which rights are identified (or, in the case of future rights to payments, are expected to be identified) in the accounting records of
Receivables
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of "Subsidiary".
Restricted Date
 
"" means, as of any date, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (determined on a consolidated basis without duplication in accordance with GAAP), the total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal quarter or fiscal year of the Borrower most recently ended prior to such date for which financial statements are available, prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Total Assets
 
"" means CPW Distribution Holdings Limited (anticipated to be renamed Best Buy Distribution Holdings Limited or such other name to be determined), a limited company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 06534088.
UK Distribution Holdings
 
3. . The definition of "Subsidiary" contained in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following sentence to the end thereof:
Amendment to Section 1.01Revised Definition
 
Loan Documents; that, (a) this sentence shall not apply to the definition of "Total Assets" set forth in Section 1.01 and (b) the Borrower may specify in a written notice to the Administrative Agent (the date thereof, the "") that UK Distribution Holdings and its Subsidiaries shall thereafter be treated as "Subsidiaries" of the Borrower for the purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, that, (i) immediately before and after the Restricted Date, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, including, on a basis, pursuant to the covenants set forth in Section 7.07 (and the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations demonstrating compliance with such covenants) and (ii) the Borrower may not subsequently specify that UK Distribution Holdings and its Subsidiaries shall no longer be treated as "Subsidiaries" of the Borrower for the purposes of this Agreement and the Loan Documents. If the Restricted Date occurs, UK Distribution Holdings and its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to have incurred on such date any Indebtedness or Liens of UK Distribution Holdings or such Subsidiary existing on such date."
"Notwithstanding the foregoing, UK Distribution Holdings and its Subsidiaries shall be deemed not to constitute "Subsidiaries" of the Borrower for the purposes of this Agreement and the other
provided
Restricted Date
provided
pro forma
 
4.   . Article VII of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendment to Article VII
 
. Section 7.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by (i) deleting "and" at the end of clause (f) thereof, (ii) re-lettering clause (g) as clause (h) and (iii) inserting the following new clause (g) immediately after clause (f) thereof:
(a)
            
Amendment to Section 7.01
 
"(g)  Indebtedness of any Subsidiary owing to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary; and"
 
. Clause (ii) of the proviso contained in Section 7.05 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by (i) replacing the "and" at the end of sub-clause (x) thereof with ",", (ii) re-lettering sub-clause (y) as sub-clause (z) and (iii) inserting the following new sub-clause (y) immediately after sub-clause (x) thereof:
(b)
           
Amendment to Section 7.05
 
"(y) restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement or instrument relating to Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement, that, in the case of this sub-clause (y), (A) except in the case of any such Indebtedness incurred by Foreign Subsidiaries, (1) any such restriction shall not prohibit, restrict or impose conditions on the ability of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon its Inventory or Receivables and (2) the Borrower or any Subsidiary may not create, incur or permit to exist any Lien securing the Indebtedness under such agreement or instrument unless the Indebtedness under this Agreement is equally and ratably secured thereby and (B) in the case of any such Indebtedness incurred by Foreign Subsidiaries, such restrictions or conditions shall apply only to property or assets owned by Foreign Subsidiaries and"
provided
 
(c)             . Article VII of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following new Section 7.08 immediately at the end thereof:
New Section 7.08
 
(i) the Initial Purchase Price and (ii) 10% of Total Assets."
"SECTION 7.08 . Prior to the Restricted Date, the Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, make any Investments in UK Distribution Holdings or its Subsidiaries unless, on the date of any such Investment, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate amount of all such Investments does not exceed the sum of
Investments in UK Distribution Holdings and its Subsidiaries
 
MISCELLANEOUS.
II.
 
1.   . The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent, that as of the Amendment Effective Date, (a) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (b) all representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in the Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the date hereof with the same force and effect as if made on and as of the date hereof (or, if any such representation and warranty is expressly stated to have been made as of a specific date, as of such specific date).
Representations and Warranties
 
2.   . Except as expressly provided herein, no term or provision of the Credit Agreement shall be amended, modified or supplemented, and each term and provision of the Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
No Change
 
3.   . This Amendment shall become effective (the date thereof, the "") upon receipt by the Administrative Agent of counterparts hereof duly executed by the Borrower, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Required Lenders.
Effectiveness
Amendment Effective Date
 
4.   . Each Subsidiary Guarantor, by its execution of this Amendment, hereby consents to this Amendment and confirms and ratifies that all of its obligations as a Subsidiary Guarantor under the Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, Article III thereof) shall continue in full force and effect for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with respect to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
Confirmation of Subsidiary Guarantees
 
5.   . This Amendment may be executed by the parties hereto in any number of separate counterparts, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
6.   . This Amendment is a Loan Document for all purposes of the Credit Agreement.
Loan Documents
 
7.   . This amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered by their proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


