FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20080421161558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
(c) The Board of Directors of Best Buy Co., Inc. has appointed James L. Muehlbauer, age 46, as Executive Vice President Finance and Chief Financial Officer, effective April 18, 2008.  Mr. Muehlbauer, who joined the registrant in 2002, has served as Enterprise Chief Financial Officer (Interim) since September 2007.  Over the last six years, he served in Finance positions of increasing responsibility including
as Senior Vice President  Finance, and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  Musicland. Prior to joining the registrant, Mr. Muehlbauer spent 10 years with The Pillsbury Company, a consumer packaged goods company, where he held various senior-level finance management positions, including vice president and worldwide controller, vice president of operations, divisional finance director, director of mergers and acquisitions, and director of internal audit. A certified public accountant (inactive), Mr. Muehlbauer spent eight years with Coopers & Lybrand LLP and most recently served as a senior manager in the firm's audit and consulting practice.
 
The registrant does not have a written employment agreement with Mr. Muehlbauer and his employment is at-will.
 
The news release issued on April 21, 2008, is attached as Exhibit No. 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Best Buy Co., Inc.'s Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
Muehlbauer Named Best Buy CFO
 
Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE: BBY) today announced that James Muehlbauer was named executive vice president  finance and chief financial officer on April 18, 2008. Muehlbauer, age 46, has been serving as Best Buy's chief financial officer (interim) since Sept. 20, 2007.
MINNEAPOLIS  April 21, 2008 
 
"Throughout his tenure with the company, and especially since taking on the interim CFO role last fall, Jim has provided invaluable leadership to the company and to the finance team. He has helped build an organization with a reputation for sound financial operations, reporting transparency, strong internal controls and integrity. Jim has a deep understanding of our business and a strong point of view about creating shareholder value as we pursue growth," said Brad Anderson, vice chairman and CEO of Best Buy.  "We conducted a lengthy and comprehensive external search process, during which we talked with a number of highly qualified candidates. It became increasingly clear, however, that Jim deserved to be at the top of the list."
 
As CFO, Muehlbauer supports enterprise growth initiatives and leads Best Buy's financial activities including decision support, strategic planning and performance management, accounting and reporting, investor relations, audit, tax and treasury functions for the $40 billion (fiscal 2008) international company.
 
Muehlbauer joined Best Buy in 2002. He was named senior vice president and CFO of Best Buy's U.S. business in 2006. As U.S. CFO, he provided strategic leadership and led financial activities supporting Best Buy's retail, merchandising, marketing, supply chain and real estate capabilities. In addition, he oversaw enterprise strategic planning and performance management, accounting and investor relations activities. His previous roles at Best Buy included senior vice president  finance, and vice president and chief financial officer  Musicland, a $1.7 billion specialty retailer of entertainment products.
 
 
Prior to joining Best Buy, Muehlbauer spent ten years with The Pillsbury Company, where he held senior-level management positions, including vice president and worldwide controller, vice president of finance  supply chain, divisional finance director, director of mergers and acquisitions and director of audit. He began his career at Coopers & Lybrand LLP, and held various senior positions over eight years in the firm's business investigation services and audit practice.
 
A native of Minnesota, Muehlbauer is a CPA (inactive) and holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from St. Cloud State University.
 
About Best Buy Co., Inc.
 
Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE:BBY) operates a global portfolio of brands with a commitment to growth and innovation.  Our employees strive to provide customers around the world with superior experiences by responding to their unique needs and aspirations.  We sell consumer electronics, home-office products, entertainment software, appliances and related services through nearly 1,300 retail stores across the United States, throughout Canada and in China. Our multi-channel operations include: Best Buy (BestBuy.com, BestBuy.ca and BestBuy.com.cn), Future Shop (FutureShop.ca), Geek Squad (GeekSquad.com and GeekSquad.ca), Pacific Sales Kitchen and Bath Centers (PacificSales.com), Magnolia Audio Video (Magnoliaav.com), Jiangsu Five Star Appliance Co. (Five-Star.cn) and Speakeasy (Speakeasy.net). Best Buy supports the communities in which its employees work and live through volunteerism and grants that benefit children and education.
 
 


