FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20091127091006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01
   
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On November 27, 2009, The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC ("CPW") released its interim results for the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2010. In the news release, CPW reported its financial headlines and outlook as well as its summary financial performance, which included financial results of Best Buy Europe, a venture between Best Buy Co., Inc. ("Best Buy" or the "registrant") and CPW.  Best Buy Europe was acquired on June 30, 2008, and is 50% owned by the registrant and 50% by CPW.
Figures for Best Buy Europe are presented by CPW in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards and
do not reflect
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("
US GAAP") or include purchase accounting applied by the registrant. As such, the figures presented by CPW for Best Buy Europe do not necessarily reflect the results that will be reported by the registrant in its consolidated statements of earnings.
The registrant will report the results of Best Buy Europe in accordance with US GAAP for the 13 weeks ended October 3, 2009, within its fiscal third-quarter results as Best Buy Europe is consolidated on a two-month reporting lag.
 
The news release issued by CPW on November 27, 2009, is furnished as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to liability of that Section, unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
In addition, on November 27, 2009, representatives of CPW held an investor presentation, which will be Web cast to discuss CPW's interim results, including the results of Best Buy Europe. The registrant is furnishing, as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, the slide presentation used for the November 27, 2009, Web cast. The slide presentation is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
By furnishing the slide presentation, the registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of the information included in the slide presentation. The registrant undertakes no duty or obligation to publicly update or to revise the information included in the slide presentation, although it may do so from time to time as its management believes is warranted. Any such updating may be made through the filing of other reports or documents with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), through news releases or through other public disclosure.
 
Some of the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2) constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements other than those made solely with respect to historical fact and are based on the intent, belief or current expectations of CPW, the registrant and/or its management.  The registrant's business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that might cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those factors set forth in the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and the risk factors set forth in the registrant's filings with the SEC.
 
ITEM 9.01
   
Exhibits
 
(d) The following exhibits are furnished as exhibits to this report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Friday 27 November 2009
 
For immediate release
 
 
                 
Strong performance ahead of market expectations
                 
Significantly improved cash flow generation
                 
Demerger well on track for March 2010
 
Headlines:
                 
Results ahead of expectations with Headline EPS of 6.0p (2008: 3.2p)
                 
Significant year-on-year cash flow improvement in both TalkTalk Group and Best Buy Europe
                 
Headline EPS guidance for March 2010 increased to between 14.0p and 15.0p (FY09: 12.6p) due to strong EBIT performance in both TalkTalk Group and Best Buy Europe
 
TalkTalk Group:
                 
TalkTalk Group operating free cash flow of 75m (2008: outflow of 8m)
                 
Acquisition of Tiscali UK for 235m taking the customer base to over 4.1m customers
                 
Operating free cash flow guidance for March 2010 of approximately 120m, even after an additional 10m of capital expenditure announced today as we expand our footprint of unbundled exchanges up to 2000 exchanges
 
Best Buy Europe:
                 
Best Buy Europe operating free cash flow outflow of 47m (2008: outflow of 193m)
                 
LFL revenue growth of 3.1% (negative 0.9% on a constant currency basis)
                 
Group's share of net income for March 2010 now expected to be at top end of our existing 30m to 40m guidance range
                 
Operating free cash flow guidance for March 2010, after all "Big Box" investment, maintained at 50m
 
Demerger:
                 
Banking facilities now agreed
                 
Demerger to be completed by end of March 2010
 
 
* Stated before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, and before exceptional items, as reconciled in note 6.
** Prior period results have been restated to reflect a change in the Group's accounting policy for subscriber acquisition costs, which are now expensed as incurred.
 
Charles Dunstone, CEO, said:
"Both TalkTalk Group and Best Buy Europe have traded well in the first half of the financial year. Each business has delivered a significant year-on-year improvement in operating free cash flow, with Headline EPS at the top end of market expectations. As a result, we are raising guidance for the full year to March 2010."
 
"At TalkTalk Group, customer growth is ahead of expectations with continued migration of customers onto our fully unbundled network and markedly improved customer loyalty. Excluding Tiscali, we added 124,000 net new customers in the first half, and we expect continued strong customer growth in the second half. TalkTalk Group's operational progress is translating into improved profitability and markedly improved operating free cash flow. For the six months period to September, it generated 75m of operating free cash flow compared to an outflow of 8m for the corresponding period last year."
 
"Our Tiscali UK acquisition in early July has cemented our position as a leading player in the UK telecoms market, significantly increased our residential broadband base and enhancing earnings per share. We have made a good start in integrating the business and remain on track to deliver the synergies announced at the time of acquisition."
 
"Best Buy Europe, in which we have a 50% share, also delivered strong growth, with year-on-year connections growth of 2% being ahead of our initial projections and achieved despite the overall European handset market remaining subdued versus historical levels. We continued to gain market share in a number of markets and particularly in the high-end smartphone category. Like-for-like revenue was up 3.1% on an actual currency basis, down 0.9% on a constant currency basis. A stronger focus on cash saw a clear improvement year-on-year in operating free cash flow and in particular a marked improvement in working capital. Elsewhere within the division, Best Buy Mobile demonstrated clear profit expansion versus last year, whilst our Best Buy branded "Big Box" store openings remain fully on course for their Spring 2010 unveiling."
 
"Virgin Mobile France, in which we have a 48.5% stake, performed well with strong growth in its customer base, particularly on postpay tariffs. Since the period end, Virgin Mobile France has agreed to acquire Tele2 France for a cash consideration of 56m on a debt free basis, subject to anti-trust authorities' clearance. The acquisition marks a major step forward in our growth plans in France, and the resulting margin synergies will promote Virgin's progress towards its target of being profitable in 2010. Following the transaction, Virgin Mobile France will have over 1.6m customers, of whom more than 60% will be post pay, consolidating its position as France's largest MVNO and fourth largest mobile operator."
 
Outlook
"The Group's strong half year progress, in profitability in both TalkTalk Group and Best Buy Europe means we are increasing guidance for Headline EPS for the current financial year to March 2010, to between 14.0p and 15.0p, the mid-point of this range being above the current analyst consensus."
 
"In each business, the cash flow progress is encouraging. Within TalkTalk Group we now expect operating free cash flow of approximately 120m, even after an additional 10m of capital expenditure over and above previous guidance, as we expand our unbundled footprint by another 300 exchanges."
 
"We maintain our guidance for annualised synergies following the acquisition of Tiscali UK of between 40m and 50m in the financial year to March 2011. These synergies will come principally from migrating customers onto our lower cost network, the integration of network backhaul, exchange infrastructure, billing and customer management systems, and back office operations."
 
"Within Best Buy Europe we maintain our guidance for full year operating free cash flow of 50m, after all "Big Box" investment. We also now expect our share of net income for the full year to be at the top end of the existing 30m to 40m guidance range."
 
"Our guidance for Best Buy branded "Big Box" store openings remains unchanged. We remain fully on track to open our first stores in Spring 2010 and we are making good progress in finalising further store openings. In the US, Best Buy Mobile continues its very strong development and we remain confident in our guidance for a material increase in its profit contribution in the current financial year."
 
Demerger
The demerger is well on track to be completed by the end of March 2010. The structure is now finalised, and there will be two separately listed businesses with the following composition. The first will be called TalkTalk Group PLC', which will have a Primary listing' on the London Stock Exchange. The second will be Carphone Warehouse Group PLC', which will have a Secondary listing'. This Group will comprise Best Buy Europe (50% ownership), Virgin Mobile France (48.5%), and Carphone Property (including freehold property assets) (100%). TalkTalk Group PLC has secured 650m banking facilities for the post demerger period such that both TalkTalk Group PLC and Carphone Warehouse Group PLC will be fully funded for all of their anticipated medium-term funding requirements. Whilst Carphone Warehouse Group PLC will not be paying dividends for at least 2 years post demerger, it is anticipated that TalkTalk Group PLC will pay dividends from the outset equivalent to that of the current Group with a progressive policy thereafter.
 
Review of businesses
 
TalkTalk Group
 
Headline financials
 
 
* Comprises residential customers and small business customers with similar profiles.
** Last year's numbers have been restated to reflect a change in the Group's accounting policy for subscriber acquisition costs, which are now expensed as incurred.
 
TalkTalk Group generated revenues of 789m and EBIT of 73m, compared to revenues of 697m and EBIT of 46m last year, resulting in an increase in EBIT margin from 6.6% to 9.3%. This result reflects the acquisition of Tiscali, the continued increase in the proportion of customers on our own network year-on-year, and the business reorganisation undertaken in 2009.
 
Acquisition of Tiscali UK
On 3 July 2009, TalkTalk Group completed the acquisition of the UK businesses of Tiscali S.p.A for a net cash consideration of 235m, which is subject to adjustment for customer numbers and working capital.
 
The integration of the Tiscali businesses into TalkTalk Group has started well, and we continue to target annualised synergies of 40m to 50m by March 2011, principally through customer migration, the integration of network backhaul, exchange infrastructure, billing and customer management systems, and back office operations.
 
Broadband & non-broadband
Total broadband & non-broadband revenues including Tiscali were up 15% to 631m (2008: 549m). Revenues excluding Tiscali were 534m, down 3%, primarily due to the expected continued decline in the non-broadband customer base, partially offset by the growing broadband base.
 
The broadband customer base including Tiscali was up 48% year-on-year to 4.12m. The total TalkTalk Group broadband base excluding Tiscali was 2.93m, up 5% year on year.
 
TalkTalk Group added 62,000 net new broadband subscribers in the period to September 2009. Excluding Tiscali, TalkTalk Group added 124,000 net new broadband customers, further demonstrating that despite the difficult consumer environment, the business continues to benefit from its clear and simple value proposition. Churn continues to be low, in line with expectations.
 
Blended broadband ARPU including Tiscali was 23.5, an increase of 4% year-on-year (2008: 22.5). ARPU excluding Tiscali was 23.9, an increase of 6% year on year. This was driven primarily by the successful move towards TalkTalk bundled packages of line rental, voice and broadband.
 
The non-broadband base, comprising voice only and internet dial up customers, was 1.20m at the end of the period. The underlying TalkTalk Group base excluding Tiscali declined, in line with expectations, to 1.00m, representing a 24% decline year-on-year compared to 35% in the prior year. The improvement reflects reduced churn on the voice bases, higher levels of gross additions in the period and the reducing mix of narrowband customers in the base.
 
Non-broadband ARPU decreased 4% to 19.3 (2008: 20.1) reflecting lower ARPU on Tiscali customers. Excluding Tiscali, APRU was 19.9, a decrease of 1% year-on-year.
 
At September 2009, 2.95m broadband customers were on our own unbundled network. Excluding Tiscali customers, we had 2.32m (2008: 2.03m) customers on our network, representing a 14.5% increase year-on-year, with a penetration of 79% compared to 73% last year. The TalkTalk Group fully unbundled network now extends to 1,714 exchanges, equivalent to 81% coverage of the UK population. At September 2009, approximately 51% of the Tiscali broadband customer base was unbundled, leaving a significant opportunity to migrate more customers onto our network and drive material post-acquisition synergies.
 
Business
Business revenues increased by 7% to 158m (2008: 148m). Underlying revenue, excluding Tiscali, increased by 2m, primarily due to the success of Opal's new broadband product offering.
 
The combined complementary product set, including the new Ethernet proposition, gives an opportunity to cross sell to the enlarged Business base and will enable customers to benefit from a wider choice of corporate services.
 
EBITDA pre SAC and marketing
EBITDA pre SAC and marketing grew 21% year-on-year to 176m (2008: 145m). This improvement predominantly reflects contribution from Tiscali, growth in the TalkTalk customer base, the increasing mix of these customers on our LLU network, and the impact of last year's reorganisation programme.
 
SAC and marketing
Subscriber acquisition and marketing costs amounted to 69m in the first half, a reduction of 4% on the previous year (2008: 72m). While customer additions have increased year-on-year, average cost per addition has decreased.
 
Cash flow
 
 
* Prior year cash flows have been reclassified to reflect a change in the Group's accounting policy for subscriber acquisition costs, which are now included within EBITDA rather than investment activities (see note 1).
 
TalkTalk Group generated operating free cash flow of 75m (2008: outflow of 8m). This improvement reflects the strong EBITDA growth described above, lower capex, and an improvement in working capital year-on-year. The working capital outflow in the prior period was caused by timing issues due to a change to calendar month ends, and consequently was not repeated in the current year.
 
Capex, depreciation and amortisation
TalkTalk Group's capex in the period was 41m, representing a reduction of 20% year-on-year (2008: 51m). Capex is planned to increase in the second half of the year, with additional spend on increasing capacity in existing exchanges and on the ongoing project to increase backhaul capacity. Migrations onto our new CRM and billing platform continue with 1.4 million
customers currently live on the system. By the end of the year we anticipate that all TalkTalk broadband customers will have been migrated onto the new system, which will allow enhanced service to our customers in the years ahead.
 
Depreciation and amortisation was up 26% year-on-year at 34m (2008: 27m) reflecting the full year charges for the new CRM and billing system.
 
Best Buy Europe
 
Headline financials (100% basis)
 
 
* Prior year results have been restated to reflect a change in the Group's accounting policy for subscriber acquisition costs, which are now expensed as incurred (see note 1).
 
Best Buy Europe, in which the Group has a 50% share, generated revenues of 1,674m, representing growth of 4% over last year (2008: 1,617m).  As expected, EBIT was lower at 32m, a decline of 9% year-on-year (2008: 35m), with the EBIT margin falling from 2.2% to 1.9%. EBITDA increased by 7% from 74m to 79m, with the benefits of the reorganisation programme undertaken early in 2009 starting to feed through in the second quarter.
 
This improvement was offset by an increase in depreciation and amortisation, which is in part due to a change in the allocation of shared IT costs following the Best Buy transaction at the end of June 2008.
 
Mobile connections for the period were up 2% to 5.9m, despite tough comparatives, with the 3G iPhone launched in the UK in July 2008. The handset market remains subdued but we continue to gain market share in a number of European territories, especially within the high value smartphone segment.
 
Like-for-like revenue, stripping out the impact of new space, was up 3.1% and at constant exchange rates like-for-like revenue was down by 0.9%.
 
Gross margin fell by 1 percentage point year-on-year, reflecting the pattern seen in the second half of last year, as we continued to invest margin in the consumer proposition to drive market share, together with an increase in the level of low margin sales to dealers.
 
We remain confident that the reorganisation programme noted above will deliver annualised cost savings of over 50m, and that this will offset the effect of the reduction in gross margin percentage. Opex was down significantly year-on-year on a constant currency basis and when the investment in "Big Box" is backed out.
 
We opened 63 stores and closed another 63, and the store base therefore remained at 2,459. Within this total, the number of franchise stores increased from 219 at March 2009 to 223. Average selling space including franchises was up 6% year-on-year to 135,700 sqm (2008: 128,000 sqm).
 
We now have 17 Wireless World stores open, and both sales performance and customer feedback have been very positive. Consequently, we are continuing to develop our larger format Wireless World stores and we are targeting 40-50 by the end of the year. This will be achieved through a mixture of new stores and refits. We plan an accelerating rollout in the next financial year. Wireless World stores are typically between 150 and 300 sqm, compared to our traditional store size of 50 to 60 sqm. They offer a wider range of laptops and areas dedicated to gaming, wireless TV and music services, all backed up by an in-store Geek Squad presence.
 
Best Buy Mobile, Best Buy's mobile phone retailing operations in North America in which Best Buy Europe has a profit sharing arrangement, made further strong progress during the period. Best Buy Mobile now operates from all of Best Buy's 1,055 "Big Box" stores and from 52 standalone stores, up from 39 at March 2009. Both formats have shown strong revenue growth in the period, and the business now has an estimated 3% share of the US mobile handset market, up from 1% before its launch. As a result of this performance, Best Buy Europe received a profit share of 11m for the period, up from 5m in the same period last year.
 
We continued to invest in the development of a Best Buy branded "Big Box" proposition for the UK market, incurring further operating costs of 7m in the period (2008: nil). We remain on course to open our first stores in the spring of 2010, with an online proposition due to be launched in summer 2010 and further store openings planned for the second half of next year and beyond.
 
Cash Flow (100% basis)
 
 
* Prior year cash flows have been reclassified to reflect a change in the Group's accounting policy for subscriber acquisition costs, which are now included within EBITDA rather than investment activities (see note 1).
 
Capex and working capital
Capex in Best Buy Europe was 35m, a reduction of 30% year-on-year (2008: 50m) mainly as a result of the reduction in new store openings and IT spend.
 
The working capital outflow in Best Buy Europe was 91m in the first half (2008: 217m). This improvement represents a more typical seasonal profile than last year, when a change in network terms resulted in a one-off increase in deferred commissions.
 
During the period, Best Buy Europe agreed a standalone banking facility of 350m, which expires in July 2012. At the end of September, net debt within Best Buy Europe was 129m.
 
Virgin Mobile France
 
Headline financials (100% basis)
 
 
* The revenue figures above represent revenues derived from the Virgin customer base, and excludes contributions towards SAC from network operators and customers.
 
Our French MVNO in partnership with Virgin, Virgin Mobile France, had a successful period, achieving strong organic growth and agreeing in October the acquisition of Tele2 Mobile SAS.
 
The Virgin Mobile customer base increased from 1.0m at September 2008 to 1.2m customers at September 2009, of whom 49% are postpay (2008: 45%) driving growth in customer base revenue of 38% from 64m to 88m, in part reflecting the strengthening of the Euro year-on-year.
 
This customer base growth, together with increased marketing activity and higher customer acquisitions, caused an increase SAC and marketing cost year-on-year. As a result of this investment, the Group's share of losses from the joint venture increased from 3m to 7m. We remain confident that the business will break even towards the end of the year, and that it will be EBITDA positive in the financial year to March 2011.
 
The Tele2 acquisition, for a cash consideration of 56m, will bring an estimated 385,000 additional customers, of whom 375,000 are on subscription contracts. The transaction is subject to approval from the anti-trust authorities, which is expected before year end 2009.
 
Central costs
Central costs not directly allocable to business units amounted to 4m, compared to 8m in 2008.  The year-on-year reduction principally reflects reduced headcount and lower charges for share options.
 
Acquisitions
On 3 July 2009, the Group acquired the UK businesses of Tiscali S.p.A for a net cash consideration of 235m.  Acquisition intangibles of 95m arose on the purchase, principally on customer bases, against which a deferred tax liability of 27m has been recognised. Deferred tax assets of 76m have provisionally been recognised at acquisition in respect of tax losses and unclaimed capital allowances; the value of these assets will be refined in the second half of the year. Goodwill of 157m arose on the acquisition, reflecting buyer-specific synergies and the elimination from the market of a significant competitor.
 
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles
The amortisation charge on acquisition intangibles was 41m (2008: 35m). The prior period charge relates almost entirely to assets arising on the acquisition of AOL's UK access business in 2006. The increase in the current period relates to the Tiscali acquisition.  A tax credit of 11m (2008: 10m) has been recognised against this charge.
 
Exceptional items
Exceptional costs of 4m have arisen from TalkTalk Group integration programme, principally comprising redundancy and consultancy costs. Further one-off integration costs may arise in the second half of this financial year, rather than the following year, if the integration process continues at its current rate of development. Exceptional costs, principally professional fees, are expected to arise in relation to the demerger.
 
Interest
The net interest charge for the period was 2m (2008: 8m) with the charge for last year reflecting 3 months of significantly higher debt before the sale of half the Group's retail and distribution business to Best Buy at the end of the first quarter.
 
Taxation
An effective rate of taxation of 28% (2008: 28%) has been applied to Headline profit before taxation from continuing operations, excluding profits or losses from joint ventures, which are recorded net of tax. Adjustments of 2m in respect of prior years have also been recorded in the period.
 
Cash flow and net debt
At 30 September 2009, Group net debt was 361m, compared to underlying net debt (before borrowings used to fund Best Buy Europe) of 159m at the last financial year end, predominantly reflecting the cash outflow on the acquisition of Tiscali.
 
The main divisional cash flow items have been described in the divisional overviews above.  At the Group level, we also paid a final dividend of 27m.
 
Dividends
The Board has declared an interim dividend of 1.45p per share (2008: 1.35p per share).  The ex-dividend date will be 9 December 2009 and the record date will be 11 December 2009.   The intended payment date will be 8 January 2010.
 
Analysts' presentation and webcast
There will be a presentation for investors and analysts at 9.00 am this morning at the offices of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.  The event will be audio webcast and the presentation slides will be available on our website, www.cpwplc.com.
 
Next trading update
The Group will give a full trading update, including revenues, connections and customer bases, for the third quarter of the current financial year on 19 January 2010.
 
For Further Information
 
For analyst and institutional enquiries:
 
 
Condensed consolidated income statement for the 6 months ended 30 September 2009
 
With 26 weeks ended 27 September 2008 comparatives
 
 
* A reconciliation of Headline information to statutory information is provided in note 6 to the interim condensed financial statements.
 
 
Condensed consolidated income statement for the 6 months ended 30 September 2009
 
With year ended 31 March 2009 comparatives
 
 
* A reconciliation of Headline information to statutory information is provided in note 6 to the interim condensed financial statements.
 
Condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 6 months ended 30 September 2009
 
 
Condensed consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the 6 months ended 30 September 2009
 
 
 
 
 
Condensed consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2009
 
 
Approved by the Board of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC
26 November 2009
 
 
Condensed consolidated cash flow statement for the 6 months ended 30 September 2009
 
 
 
1 Basis of preparation and accounting policies
 
Basis of preparation
 
The interim condensed financial statements for the 6 months ended 30 September 2009 have been prepared using accounting policies and methods of computation consistent with those set out on pages 46 to 50 of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC annual report for the year ended 31 March 2009 ("Annual Report").  The financial information for the 6 months ended 30 September 2009 and the 26 weeks ended 27 September 2008 has not been subject to audit or review by the Group's auditors.
 
The interim condensed financial statements for the 6 months ended 30 September 2009 do not comprise statutory accounts for the purpose of section 240 of the Companies Act 1985, and should be read in conjunction with the Annual Report. Those accounts have been reported upon by the Group's auditors and delivered to the Registrar of Companies. The report of the auditors was unqualified, did not include a reference to any matters to which the auditors drew attention by way of emphasis without qualifying their report, and did not contain statements under Section 237 (2) or (3) of the Companies Act 1985. The Annual Report can be found on the Group's corporate website www.cpwplc.com.
 
The Group's future cash forecasts and revenue projections, which are considered to be based on prudent assumptions, indicate that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its current committed facilities and as such the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to prepare the financial statements of the Group on a going concern basis.
 
Accounting policies
 
Financial information previously reported for the period ended 27 September 2008 has been restated to reflect the finalisation of the gain on the part-disposal of the Group's retail and distribution business, a change in the Group's accounting policy for subscriber acquisition costs, and the recognition of the foreign exchange loss arising on the change in functional currency of the Group's brand company from Swiss Francs to Sterling. Details of the change in accounting policy are provided on page 46 of the Annual Report.
 
In the current period the Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments', which provides guidance on segmental reporting, and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements'. The introduction of IFRS 8 has not changed the Group's segmental reporting. IAS 1 has changed the presentation of the statement of changes in equity and introduced a statement of comprehensive income.
 
2 Segmental reporting
 
Continuing operations are analysed as follows:
 
 
 
 
Headline results are shown before amortisation of acquisition intangibles and before exceptional items. Headline information is provided because the Directors consider that it provides assistance in understanding underlying performance.
 
3. Exceptional items
 
The following items have been disclosed separately in the period given their size and one-off nature:
 
 
(a)
         
AOL
integration
The Group acquired AOL's UK internet access business in December 2006. Since that time the Group has worked on the reorganisation of the business through a programme to transfer network operations, hosting, billing and customer management away from a transitional platform provided by AOL Time Warner onto the Group's own systems and infrastructure. The transition was completed during the year ended 31 March 2009 at a cost of 16m, against which a tax credit of 4m was recognised.
 
(b)
         
TalkTalk Group reorganistion
Further to the divisionalisation process detailed in note j) below, TalkTalk Group undertook a comprehensive reorganisation of its structure and operations, which resulted in redundancy and other restructuring costs of 10m in the year ended 31 March 2009. These costs are expected to attract tax relief at 28% and a tax credit of 3m was recognised against them.
 
(c)
         
Impairment of non-current asset investments
The Group fully impaired its legacy wireless internet investments during the year ended 31 March 2009, resulting in a charge of 5m through exceptional operating expenses.
 
(d)
         
TalkTalk Group integration
On 3 July 2009 CPW acquired the UK operations of Tiscali S.p.A, the internet service provider. The restructuring of the Tiscali business and integration with the rest of the TalkTalk Group, most of which will commence in 2010, is expected to yield significant synergies, both through the elimination of duplicated costs and through network and operational efficiencies. Reorganisation costs of 4m were incurred in the period ended 30 September 2009, principally comprising redundancy and consulting costs.
 
(e)
         
Costs associated with the part-disposal of the retail and distribution business
Further to the transaction with Best Buy detailed in note h) below, during the year ended 31 March 2009 Best Buy Europe commenced the disposal of approximately 100 stores, primarily in the UK and France. Costs of 19m were recognised in the year in relation to the disposal programme, comprising fixed asset write downs of 7m and provision for disposal costs of 12m.
 
Also as a result of the transaction, Best Buy Europe accelerated a shift in its range of retail stock away from mobile phones towards laptops and other non-mobile products, resulting in an exceptional clearance exercise. Losses of 8m were incurred in disposing of the products that were de-ranged.
 
A tax credit of 6m was recognised in respect of these charges. The Group's share of the post-tax charge for the year ended 31 March 2009 was 11m.
 
(f)
           
Best Buy Europe reorganisation
During the year ended 31 March 2009 Best Buy Europe undertook a comprehensive reorganisation of its structure and operations, which resulted in redundancy and other restructuring costs of 18m, against which a tax credit of 4m was recognised. The Group's share of these post-tax costs was 7m.
 
(g)
        
Foreign exchange losses
An exceptional foreign exchange loss of 85m arose in the year ended 31 March 2009 following a change in the functional currency of the Group's brand company from Swiss Francs to Sterling. The transaction with Best Buy necessitated a change in the operations of the brand company, which in turn made Sterling the appropriate functional currency. As a result of the change, movements on the brand company's Swiss Franc borrowings, which would previously have been recognised through reserves, were thereafter reflected in the income statement. A tax credit of 24m was recognised in respect of this loss.
 
(h)
        
Net gain on the part-disposal of the retail and distribution business
On 30 June 2008, the Group completed the disposal of 50% of its retail and distribution business to Best Buy Co., Inc., resulting in a net gain on disposal after taxation of 608m.
 
(i)
           
Indirect costs of the part-disposal
Other costs arising indirectly from this transaction principally comprised 3m in relation to the accelerated vesting of a retail share option scheme that was of no value to option-holders, and 3m arising on the write-down of unamortised bank facility fees.
 
(j)
           
Divisionalisation costs
Prior to the transaction with Best Buy, the Group conducted a comprehensive reorganisation of its central support structures, particularly in relation to its retail and distribution business, to achieve greater divisional autonomy and efficiency. This reorganisation resulted in redundancy and other restructuring costs of 12m during the year ended 31 March 2009. These costs are expected to attract tax relief at 28% and a tax credit of 3m was recognised against them.
 
4 Taxation
 
An effective rate of 28% (26 weeks ended 27 September 2008: 28%; year ended 31 March 2009: 17%) has been applied to Headline profit before taxation from continuing operations, excluding profits or losses from joint ventures and associates, which are recorded net of tax. Adjustments of 2m in respect of prior years have been recorded in the current period. A tax credit of 28% has been recognised in all periods in respect of the amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
 
5 Acquisitions
 
On 3 July 2009, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Tiscali UK Ltd and its subsidiary companies for a gross cash consideration of 238m, which is subject to working capital and customer number adjustments.
 
The following table sets out the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their provisional fair value to the Group:
 
 
 
Fair value adjustments relate principally to:
                 
The recognition of the following acquisition intangibles:
                 
customer bases, comprising broadband, internet protocol television, voice and narrowband customers, valued at 90m.  The valuation is derived from the discounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the customer bases, after a deduction for contributory assets;
                 
a licence to continue to use the Tiscali brand in perpetuity, valued at 5m using the relief from royalty method, which reflects the discounted future cash flows saved from not incurring royalty payments.
                 
The write-down of property, plant and equipment and internally developed and purchased software to its market value.
                 
The recognition of deferred tax, principally in respect of capital allowances, intangible assets and inherited tax losses.
                 
The recognition of unrecorded liabilities and provisions for onerous contracts.
 
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Tiscali reflects buyer-specific synergies and the elimination from the market of a significant competitor to TalkTalk Group.
 
The Group's results for the period reflect revenue from Tiscali of 105m and a profit before taxation of 1m.
 
6 Reconciliation of Headline information to statutory information
 
 
 
 
 
7 Earnings per share
 
 
8 Equity dividends
 
 
9 Interests in joint ventures and associates
 
Interests in joint ventures and associates are as follows:
 
 
 
During the period, stand-alone banking facilities were put in place for Best Buy Europe and the Group's revolving credit facility (RCF) to Best Buy Europe was reduced from 475m to 230m. At 30 September 2009 no amounts were drawn by Best Buy Europe under the RCF (31 March 2009: 293m; 27 September 2008: 206m). The RCF has terms broadly similar to the Group's main external facilities and its final maturity date is 13 March 2013.  Under the RCF, 50% of drawings are guaranteed by Best Buy Co., Inc..
 
Loans are provided to Virgin Mobile France under a shareholder agreement; funding requirements are agreed between the shareholders on a regular basis and are provided equally between the shareholders.
 
The Group's share of the results, assets and liabilities of its joint ventures and associates is as follows:
 
Best Buy Europe
 
 
The results of Best Buy Europe prior to its part-disposal on 30 June 2008 are reflected in discontinued operations. Amounts reflected in the Group's share of results from joint ventures include only Best Buy Europe's results from 1 July 2008.
 
Virgin Mobile France
 
 
Best Buy Europe
 
 
Virgin Mobile France
 
 
10 Analysis of changes in net debt
 
 
The Group has two committed bank facilities: a 550m RCF expiring in March 2013, and a 375m term loan expiring in October 2012.
 
11 Capital commitments
 
 
12 Related party transactions
 
 
13 Post balance sheet events
 
On 16 October 2009, the Group announced that Omer Telecom Limited, a business that trades as Virgin Mobile in France, in which the Group has a 48.5% interest, had agreed to acquire Tele2 Mobile SAS for a cash consideration of 56m. Completion is subject to the approval of French anti-trust authorities.
 
Risks and uncertainties
 
The Board continuously assesses and monitors the key risks of the business. The key risks that could affect the Group's long-term performance, and the factors which mitigate these risks, are set out on page 23 of the Annual Report.
 
Statement of Directors' responsibilities
 
The unaudited interim condensed financial statements for the 6 months ended 30 September 2009 have been prepared in accordance with IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting', as adopted by the European Union and the Disclosure and Transparency Directive Rules ("DTR"). The interim management report herein includes a fair review of the important events during the first 6 months and description of principal risks and uncertainties for the remainder of the financial period, as required by DTR 4.2.7, and a fair review of disclosure of related party transactions and changes therein, as required by DTR 4.2.8.
 
The Directors of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC are listed on page 28 of the Annual Report and on the Group's website www.cpwplc.com.
 
By order of the Board
 
Roger Taylor
Chief Financial Officer
 
26 November 2009
 

Exhibit 99.2
 


