FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20090723090017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01
   
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On July 23, 2009, The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC ("CPW") released its trading statement for its first quarter of fiscal 2010.  In the news release, CPW reported the fiscal first quarter highlights and strategic and financial goals for Best Buy Europe, a venture between Best Buy Co., Inc. ("Best Buy" or the "registrant") and CPW, which is owned 50% by the registrant. The news release issued by CPW on July 23, 2009, is furnished as Exhibit No. 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to liability of that Section, unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
 
Some of the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99) constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements other than those made solely with respect to historical fact and are based on the intent, belief or current expectations of the registrant and its management.  The registrant's business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that might cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in the registrant's filings with the SEC.
 
ITEM 9.01
    
Exhibits
 
(d) The following exhibit is furnished as an exhibit to this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Thursday 23 July 2009
 
For immediate release
 
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC, which is holding its AGM today at 11am, announces its first quarter trading update.
 
TalkTalk Group:
 
                 
Trading in line with expectations
 
                 
Broadband net adds of 47,000
 
                 
Acquisition of Tiscali UK completed on 3 July 2009
 
Best Buy Europe:
 
                 
Robust connections growth, up 3% year-on-year
 
                 
Like-for-Like retail revenue growth 5.4%
 
Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Officer, said:
 
"Both our businesses have continued to make good progress, despite the economic climate, and we are able to re-iterate all the financial guidance we have given for the full year. In parallel, work progresses on schedule towards our proposed demerger."
 
"TalkTalk Group is trading well, in line with our expectations. We added 47,000 net new customers to our broadband base and average customer spend is up 5% year-on-year. We migrated a further 59,000 customers onto our own network in the quarter and we now have 79% of all our broadband customers on our unbundled network, leveraging the superior economics that it gives us. TalkTalk's leading value proposition and strong customer service clearly continue to resonate strongly in today's marketplace, and churn has declined significantly year-on-year and remains low."
 
"Best Buy Europe, the retail and distribution business in which we have a 50% share, has also performed well, in line with our expectations, with connections up 3% year-on-year, reflecting continued growth of market share in a subdued European marketplace. High-tier and prepay phones continue to drive connections growth, but looking ahead, we expect today's high-tier phone features increasingly to cascade into the mid-tier range as technology becomes cheaper and touch-screen phones continue to gain popularity."
 
"Our demerger process is well on track with banking facilities now in place for Best Buy Europe. We remain confident that separating our two businesses will enable the worth and potential of each to be more accurately evaluated."
 
"On 3 July 2009, TalkTalk Group took the keys to Tiscali's UK business. We are confident of achieving the synergies we identified and have committed ourselves to. We will present an update on the Tiscali integration strategy and progress at TalkTalk Group's investor day, scheduled for October."
 
TalkTalk Group
 
As expected, TalkTalk Group revenues were stable quarter-on-quarter and down 2% to 340m year-on-year.
 
Residential revenues were flat quarter-on-quarter and down 3% year-on-year at 264m, reflecting the year-on-year decline in voice-only and dial-up customers, alongside the continued good growth in our broadband base. Business revenues were up 1% year-on-year, with early signs of progress on Opal's new product offerings to SME customers, which includes broadband.
 
We added 47,000 net new customers to our broadband base in the quarter, bringing our total broadband base to 2.85m. The TalkTalk base continued its very strong growth trajectory during the quarter, despite overall UK broadband market growth being subdued. We see TalkTalk as very well positioned at the value end of the market with its consistent, high-quality network and market leading offer resonating well with consumers.
 
Broadband ARPU was up 5% year-on-year at 23.3, reflecting the increasing proportion of TalkTalk customers within the base and the slight rise in line rental pricing during the quarter following BT's price increase. We unbundled a further 59,000 customers in the quarter, taking our total unbundled base to 2.25m or 79% of the total broadband customer base.
 
During the quarter, the non-broadband base of voice-only and dial-up customers declined by 53,000 to 1.06m. The rate of decline in the non-broadband base in the first quarter halved compared to the previous quarter. Non-broadband ARPU was up 7% year-on-year to 20.8, as voice prices rose and lower APRU dial-up customers comprised a smaller proportion of the customer mix.
 
Best Buy Europe
 
Total Best Buy Europe revenues were up 6% year on year to 773m. On a constant currency basis revenues were up 0.7%. Like for like retail revenue growth was 5.4% or 0.2% on a constant currency basis. We expect the exchange rate benefits of the weaker pound to decline over time as the strength of the Euro is annualised.
 
Connections at Best Buy Europe were up 3% year-on-year to 2.7m, reflecting further gains in market share in a subdued overall handset market. We opened a further four "Wireless World" stores in the quarter and now have eight stores trading. These stores provide a much wider range of laptops and connected devices with additional in-store technical support to provide customers with outstanding service.
 
During the quarter we continued to pursue our aggressive trading stance, further growing our market share whilst simultaneously driving increased sales from other product lines. This
 
has led to a slight reduction in gross margin, in line with our expectations. The cost savings we initiated in February have taken effect from June as anticipated, and we retain our guidance of broadly flat EBIT for the year to March 2010.
 
In the US, Best Buy Mobile has continued its very strong progress and Best Buy Europe's "Big Box" strategy continues to develop in readiness for a launch early next year.
 
Board changes
 
Steven Esom, a Non-Executive Director, is stepping down today after almost four years' service and has decided not to stand for re-election.  The Board would like to thank him for his valuable contribution over a period of significant change and growth for the Group.
 
Conference Call
 
There will be a conference call for investors and analysts at 8.30 am this morning.   The dial-in number is +44 20 3037 9107, with a Freephone number of 1 866 966 5335 for US callers.  A replay will be available for seven days, for which the dial-in number is +44 20 8196 1998, or Freephone 1 866 583 1035 from the USA.  The access code is 897311.  The conference call will also be webcast at www.cpwplc.com.
 
Next Trading Update
 
The Group will publish its Q2 trading statement on 8 October 2009. An investor day for TalkTalk Group is also planned for the same date.
 
For Further Information
 
 
Operating and Financial Statistics
 
Revenues
 
 
 
* Q1 2008 revenue reflects the reallocation of 5m of revenues from non-UK fixed line operations which were previously included within retail and distribution but which do not form part of Best Buy Europe.
 
Like for like revenue
 
 
TalkTalk Group customer bases
 
 
* Non-broadband ARPUs have been restated to reflect the reclassification of revenues noted above, and to achieve alignment with full year disclosure for 2008-09.
 
Best Buy Europe connections and store numbers
 
 


