FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20100728085506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On July 28, 2010, Carphone Warehouse Group plc ("CPW") released its trading statement for its fiscal first quarter ended July 3, 2010.  In the news release, CPW reported the fiscal first quarter highlights and reiterated its fiscal 2011 financial guidance for Best Buy Europe, a venture between Best Buy Co., Inc. ("Best Buy" or the "registrant") and CPW, which is owned 50% by the registrant.
Figures for Best Buy Europe are presented by CPW in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards and
do not reflect
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("
US GAAP") or include purchase accounting applied by the registrant. As such, the figures presented by CPW for Best Buy Europe do not necessarily reflect the results that will be reported by the registrant in its consolidated statements of earnings.
The registrant will report the results of Best Buy Europe in accordance with US GAAP for the 13 weeks ended July 3, 2010, within its fiscal 2011 second quarter results as Best Buy Europe is consolidated on a two-month reporting lag.
 
The news release issued by CPW on July 28, 2010, is furnished as Exhibit No. 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that Section unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Some of the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99) constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements other than those made solely with respect to historical fact and are based on the intent, belief or current expectations of the registrant and its management.  The registrant's business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that might cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in the registrant's filings with the SEC.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Wednesday 28 July 2010
 
                 
Carphone Warehouse Europe LFL revenue up 3.7% at constant currency
                 
Best Buy Mobile US connections up 29.7% to 1.43m
                 
Big Box successfully launched with excellent customer response
                 
Virgin Mobile revenue in-line at 93m
                 
Re-iterating financial guidance for the full year
 
Note: Summary financials for 2009-10 now on our website www.cpwplc.com
 
Roger Taylor, CEO, said:
 
"We've had a good start to the year, meeting our expectations and enabling us to reiterate the full-year guidance we gave in our April strategy update.
 
"Our vision of the Connected World strikes a strong chord with customers. They want the powerful communication and connectivity devices that are increasingly available, and value our people's ability to set them up so that they can "walk out working".  This theme, coupled with impartial advice, best value promise and informed service runs across all of the Best Buy Europe businesses and is helping to drive their growth and customer loyalty.
 
"In our Carphone stores across Europe, we are benefiting from the increasing penetration and usage of smartphones and the cascading of smart features into phones at all price points. In the US, Best Buy Mobile is continuing its rapid growth, and we remain confident about its strong long-term prospects. While Best Buy Mobile has out-performed against expectations in Q1 we are holding our existing financial guidance given the more material quarters still ahead of us. Virgin Mobile in France is delivering on the promise of its Tele2 acquisition, with the integration well advanced and the business delivering good profit and cash flow. Finally we are delighted with the launch of the first three Big Box Best Buy stores in the UK - the customer response is excellent."
 
Best Buy Europe
 
Best Buy Europeis a joint venture, 50% owned by Carphone Warehouse Group plc and 50% owned by Best Buy Inc, consisting of Carphone Warehouse Europe, Best Buy Mobile US profit sharing agreement and the newly launched Big Box stores in the UK branded Best Buy.
 
Carphone Warehouse Europe
 
The smartphone market continues to grow presenting Carphone Warehouse Europe with exciting opportunities to utilise its expertise in explaining complex technologies to customers. Like-for-like revenue was up 3.7% in the first quarter, driven largely by sales of smartphones. Connections were down as anticipated by 1.1%, due to a reduction in sales of lower value pre-pay phones.
 
Gross margins were robust and we expect further improvement year-on-year, in-line with guidance.
 
The "Wireless World" store format continues to perform well, bringing customers the latest and best products and services that the Connected World has to offer. We remain on course to reach our target of 100 "Wireless World" stores by March 2011 and we are looking to take the best features from the new store format and incorporate them across our remaining estate.
 
Carphone Warehouse Europe's programme to export the most successful initiatives from the UK retail business to other European territories is well underway.  A standard performance measurement structure is now in place across all markets, and together with strengthened central teams we are making good progress in areas such as commercial terms, customer segmentation and operational efficiency.
 
Best Buy Mobile US
 
In the US,
Best Buy Mobile
delivered another impressive quarter with connections growth of 29.7% (total connections 1.43m).
 
As well as the 1,086 stores within a Best Buy store, Best Buy Mobile now has 90 stand-alone stores and is well on track to reach between 150 and 175 stores by the end of the financial year (as previously communicated).
 
Best Buy UK ("Big Box")
 
The first three Best Buy branded stores in Thurrock, Hedge End and Merry Hill all enjoyed a very successful launch.
 
Most importantly customer response is extremely positive. The quality of our people is something we are particularly proud of, and the vast majority of customers rated our colleagues in the store they visited as excellent.
 
Best Buy UK will open a further three stores later in the year, together with its nationwide on-line platform. We will give guidance on its 2011 opening programme in due course.
 
Virgin Mobile France
 
Revenue at Virgin Mobile France, in which we have a 47.5% stake, is in-line with expectations at 93m for the quarter. Virgin Mobile's customer base declined by 20,000 in the quarter, but with much of the Tele2 integration now complete, the business is focussed on driving sales in the second half.
 
Earnings and cashflow are ahead of plan and we therefore remain confident of meeting full year guidance.
 
Outlook
 
We have made a good start to the financial year and despite our continued caution on the economic environment we remain confident of achieving the full year guidance that we set out in April.
 
Conference call
 
There will be a conference call for investors and analysts at 9.00 am this morning.   The dial-in number is +44 20 7138 0827, with an alternative Freephone number  1 866 850 2201 - for US callers, passcode 6319462.  The call will also be broadcast on our website, www.cpwplc.com.  A replay will be available for seven days, for which the dial-in number is +44 20 7111 1244, or 1 866 932 5017 for US callers, and the passcode is 6319462#.
 
Next announcement
 
The Group will publish its Q2 trading and Interim Results on 5 November 2010.
 
For further information
 
For analyst and institutional enquiries
 
 
Further operating and financial information
 
Best Buy Europe (100% basis)
 
 
 
Virgin Mobile France (100% basis)
 
 
 
*
 2009 excludes Tele2 customer base
 
**
 Revenue excludes contributions towards subscriber acquisition costs from network operators and customers to simplify presentation


