FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20111214170012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K/A
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
December 12, 2011
 
 
BEST BUY CO., INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(612) 291-1000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
As reported on its Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on November 7, 2011 (the Previous Report), Best Buy Co., Inc. (Best Buy or the registrant) and Carphone Warehouse Group plc (CPW) (jointly referred to as the Parties) entered into an agreement to strategic and commercial changes in respect of their commercial business interests in Best Buy Europe Distributions, Ltd. (Best Buy Europe) and the 2007 Best Buy Mobile agreement between Best Buy and CPW Mobile Ltd. (a subsidiary of Best Buy Europe) (profit share agreement), as well as certain future business ventures.
On December 12, 2011, the Parties entered into an Implementation Agreement to implement the material elements of the Previous Report. This document, attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1, governs the steps the Parties intend to take in order to effectuate Best Buy's purchase of CPW's contractual interest in the profit share-based management fee paid to Best Buy Europe under profit share agreement for approximately $1.3 billion.
A condition to closing the transaction is the approval of CPW's shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting scheduled to be held in January 2012.  The directors of CPW, who hold approximately 30% of the outstanding voting shares, have unanimously agreed to vote in favor of the resolution to approve the transactions contemplated by the Implementation Agreement at the extraordinary general meeting.  The proposed circular describing the transaction with Best Buy and notice of extraordinary general meeting is expected to be circulated to CPW's shareholders prior to the end of the calendar year. 
Upon approval of the transaction by CPW's shareholders, and if all other conditions to closing are satisfied, the transaction is expected to be completed on January 24, 2012. 
The contents of the Previous Report are incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the contractual agreement governing the purchase of the profit share arrangement in respect of Best Buy Mobile, which is attached hereto as Exhibit No. 2.1 of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A and incorporated herein by reference.
The registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
Some of the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements other than those made solely with respect to historical fact and are based on the intent, belief or current expectations of CPW, Best Buy Europe, the registrant and/or its management. The registrant's business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that might cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in the registrant's filings with the SEC.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
2
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
  
3

DATED 12 December 2011
(1) BEST BUY CO., INC.
and
(2) CARPHONE WAREHOUSE GROUP PLC
_________________________________________________
IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
_________________________________________________
CONTENTS
1
THIS IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT is made on 12 December 2011
BETWEEN
RECITALS:
IT IS AGREED
as follows:
2
In this agreement, the following words and expressions shall have the following meaning (including in the recitals):
3
4
A company or other entity shall be a "
holding company
" for the purposes of this Agreement if it falls within either the meaning attributed to that term in s1159 CA 2006 or the meaning attributed to the term "
parent undertaking
" in s1162 CA 2006, and a company or other entity shall be a "
subsidiary
" for the purposes of this Agreement if it falls within either the meaning attributed to that term in s1159 CA 2006 or the meaning attributed to the term "
subsidiary undertaking
" in s1162 CA 2006, and the terms "
subsidiaries
" and "
holding companies
" are to be construed accordingly.
References to this Agreement include the recitals and schedules which form part of this Agreement for all purposes. References in this Agreement to the parties, the recitals, schedules and clauses are references respectively to the parties and their legal personal representatives, successors and permitted assigns, the recitals and schedules to and clauses of this Agreement.
Save where specifically required or indicated otherwise:
5
company, corporation or other body corporate wherever and however incorporated or established;
Clause and paragraph headings and the table of contents are inserted for ease of reference only and shall not affect construction.
6
BBEDL and, at Completion, the parties will enter into, inter alia, the New Shareholders Agreement in connection therewith.
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement and subject to any extension in time which may occur in compliance with the terms of this Agreement, each party undertakes that it shall (and, to the extent that it is lawfully able to do so, each party undertakes to procure that its Affiliates shall) take and perform all such actions and steps and execute and deliver all such documents and things as may be necessary or as the other party may reasonably require in order to implement and effect the Transaction in accordance with clause 2 and to give effect to clause 3, with the overall intention that the Transaction is completed on or prior to the Long Stop Date.
7
communicate, disclose or divulge at any time such Confidential Information, except where such disclosure is expressly contemplated by this Agreement or reasonably required to give effect to this Agreement or to their professional advisers, auditors and consultants.
Neither party to this Agreement may assign this Agreement or any of its rights hereunder without the prior written consent of the other party (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed). Any purported assignment in breach of this clause shall not confer any rights on the purported assignee.
Without prejudice to its other rights pursuant to this Agreement (or any relation to a breach by either party of the terms of this Agreement) and save as may otherwise be agreed between the parties, each party shall be responsible for its own legal, accountancy and other costs, charges and expenses incurred in connection with negotiation, preparation, execution and implementation of this Agreement and the Transaction.
If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under the law of any jurisdiction, then such provision shall (so far as it is invalid or unenforceable) be given no effect and shall be deemed not to be included in this Agreement but without invalidating any of the remaining provisions of this
8
Agreement. Any provision of this Agreement held invalid or unenforceable only in part or degree will remain in full force and effect to the extent not held invalid or unenforceable. The parties shall then use all reasonable endeavours to replace the invalid or unenforceable provision(s) by a valid and enforceable substitute provision the effect of which is as close as possible to the intended effect of the invalid or unenforceable provision.
No variation or waiver of any provision or condition of this Agreement shall be effective unless it is in writing and signed by or on behalf of each of the parties (or, in the case of a waiver, by or on behalf of the party waiving compliance).
Unless expressly agreed, no variation or waiver of any provision or condition of this Agreement shall constitute a general variation or waiver of any provision or condition of this Agreement, nor shall it affect any rights, obligations or liabilities under or pursuant to this Agreement which have already accrued up to the date of variation or waiver, and the rights and obligations of the parties under or pursuant to this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, except and only to the extent that they are so varied or waived.
Any consent granted under this Agreement shall be effective only if given in writing and signed by the consenting party and then only in the instance and for the purpose for which it was given.
No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right or remedy provided by law or under or pursuant to this Agreement shall impair such right or remedy or operate or be construed as a waiver or variation of it or preclude its exercise at any subsequent time. No single or partial exercise of any right or remedy by any party shall preclude any other or further exercise of such right or remedy or the exercise of any other right or remedy.
The rights, powers and remedies provided by this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to any rights, powers and remedies provided by law.
The provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Heads of Agreement will be read in concert to the extent possible so as to give full effect to both. To the extent that there is any conflict such that a provision of this Agreement and the Heads of Agreement cannot be reconciled, then as between the parties hereto, the provisions of the Heads of Agreement shall prevail.
Each party agrees to perform (or procure the performance of) all further acts and things, and execute and deliver (or procure the execution and delivery of) such further documents, as may be required by law or as any other party or parties may reasonably require to implement
9
and/or give effect to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by it and for the purpose of vesting in the other parties the full benefit of this Agreement.
The parties to this Agreement do not intend that any term of this Agreement should be enforceable, by virtue of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999, by any person who is not a party to this Agreement.
References to time in this clause 14 are to local time in the country of the addressee.
10
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties to it on separate counterparts and each such counterpart shall constitute an original of this Agreement but all of which together constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement shall not be effective until each party has executed at least one counterpart.
The construction, validity and performance of this Agreement and all non-contractual obligations (if any) arising from or connected with this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of England.
Each party irrevocably agrees to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England over any claim or matter (including any non-contractual claim) arising under or in connection with this Agreement.
This Agreement has been executed by the parties on the date set out on the first page of this document.
SIGNED
by
Todd G. Hartman, Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel
duly authorised for and on behalf    
of
BEST BUY CO., INC.        
SIGNED
by
Nigel Langstaff, Chief Financial Officer, Carphone Warehouse Group plc
duly authorised for and on behalf
of
CARPHONE WAREHOUSE GROUP PLC
11
SCHEDULE 1
Proposed Final Corporate Structure
12


