FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20110727080023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On July 27, 2011, Carphone Warehouse Group plc ("CPW") released its interim management statement for its fiscal first quarter ended July 2, 2011. In the news release, CPW reported its fiscal first quarter financial results and outlook, which included financial results of Best Buy Europe, a venture between Best Buy Co., Inc. ("Best Buy" or the "registrant") and CPW, which is owned 50% by the registrant. Figures for Best Buy Europe are presented by CPW in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and do not reflect accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("US GAAP") or include purchase accounting applied by the registrant. As such, the figures presented by CPW for Best Buy Europe do not necessarily reflect the results that will be reported by the registrant in its consolidated statements of earnings.
The registrant will report the results of Best Buy Europe in accordance with US GAAP for the 13 weeks ended July 2, 2011, within its fiscal 2012 second quarter results, as Best Buy Europe is consolidated on a two-month reporting lag.
 
The news release issued by CPW on July 27, 2011, is furnished as Exhibit No. 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that Section unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Some of the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99) constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements other than those made solely with respect to historical fact and are based on the intent, belief or current expectations of CPW, the registrant and/or its management. The registrant's business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that might cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in the registrant's filings with the SEC.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Wednesday 27 July 2011
 
Embargoed until 7am
 
 
                 
CPW Europe Q1 LFL sales down 3.3%, affected by the shift to 24 month contracts in the UK, with positive LFL sales growth in the rest of Europe
                 
Best Buy Mobile US Q1 connections up 12.3% to 1.6m; LFL sales growth for 3 months to the end of May up 28%*, driven by strong postpay sales
                 
Virgin Mobile France delivers strong net additions of 68,000 for the quarter
                 
Re-iterating financial guidance for the full year
 
*already reported within Best Buy fiscal first quarter results
 
Roger Taylor, CEO, said:
 
"Our first quarter trading is very much in line with our expectations and means we can reaffirm the financial guidance given for the full year to March 2012.
 
In the UK, as expected, the shift to 24 month contracts, and a continuing weak prepay market, affected Carphone Warehouse sales, but we saw an encouraging performance from continental Europe, as we continued to drive smartphone penetration across the CPW Europe estate. We remain excited about the opportunities provided by our Wireless World' store format, which is ideally suited to offer a wider range of products, including tablets  another area of potentially significant growth for the core retail business.
 
Best Buy Mobile continues to resonate well with the US consumer and to grow market share. Despite a very tough comparative period, the business generated strong revenue growth, particularly through continued growth of postpay volumes and the development of ancillary sales. Best Buy Mobile's market share in the smartphone segment has grown significantly over the last six months, and we look forward to a compelling 4G product pipeline.
 
In Virgin Mobile France the momentum seen in the final quarter of the prior financial year has continued into this year with net customer additions of 68,000, bringing us very close to our long-standing 2 million customer target at June, and through it in July. We are now embarking on our move towards a full MVNO infrastructure which should enable us to enhance our customer proposition even further.
 
As stated in June we continue to evaluate the next steps in our multi-format/multi-channel consumer electronics strategy.
 
Altogether, a very satisfactory start to the year."
 
Best Buy Europe
 
Best Buy Europe has three main operations: CPW Europe, Europe's largest independent mobile retailer; a profit share in Best Buy's mobile phone retailing operations in the US; and Best Buy UK, our Big Box' consumer electronics stores and online platform in the UK.
 
CPW Europe
 
As previously highlighted, Q1 was affected by the shift from 18 month to 24 month contracts in the UK and a continuing weak prepay market. Total connections were down 5.5% and like-for-like sales declined by 3.3%. Within this the performance in continental Europe was particularly encouraging with successful smartphone promotions driving positive like-for-like sales growth, building on the improved performance noted in Q4 last year.
 
We also saw the first material impact of tablet sales in the quarter, driven by some exciting product launches and the take-up of smartphone tethered bundles. Our Wireless World' format is ideally suited to offer a wider range of products, including tablets. The roll-out of this format remains a key focus and is progressing well. Those stores converted to date are producing excellent customer feedback and strong financial returns.
 
Best Buy Mobile US
 
Best Buy Mobile delivered strong like-for-like sales growth in the quarter, against a tough comparative period, which included some of the biggest product launches of last year. This growth was driven by continued momentum on postpay smartphones, and strong performance on accessories and services. As anticipated, the prepay market was relatively subdued and total connections grew by 12.3% to 1.6m. Best Buy Mobile continues to grow market share in the US and will benefit from the compelling 4G product pipeline.
 
Best Buy UK
 
We are in the process of evaluating the next steps in our multi-format/multi-channel consumer electronics strategy and will update the market in due course.
 
Virgin Mobile France
 
France's leading MVNO had another good quarter with net customer additions of 68,000 and total revenue growth of 16.4% from 93m to 108m. The business continues to benefit from a wide range of smartphones and creative marketing campaigns. Since the quarter-end Virgin Mobile France has broken through its long-standing target of 2 million customers.
 
Outlook
 
At our results presentation in June, we explained that 2011-12 is a year of transition, with uncertainties around the prepay market, a negative impact from 24 month contracts in the UK, and changes within our German business. However, we are also beginning to see some real positives from the Wireless World' format and improved network commercial terms. We expect these positives to continue to grow into 2012-13. We remain confident in the guidance we set out in June and believe that the business is well positioned strategically and operationally to capitalise on the strong product cycle we continue to experience.
 
Conference call
 
There will be a conference call for investors and analysts at 9.00 am this morning. The call will also be broadcast on our website, www.cpwplc.com.
 
Dial-in details - UK/International: +44 (0)20 7136 6283, USA: +1 888 935 4575, passcode 8343982.
A replay will be available until midnight, 4 August 2011.
 
Replay dial-in details - UK/International +44 (0)20 7111 1244, USA +1 347 366 9565, passcode 8343982#.
 
Next announcement
 
The Group will publish its Q2 trading and Interim Results on 8 November 2011.
 
For further information
 
 
Further operating and financial information
 
Best Buy Europe (100% basis)
 
 
 
Virgin Mobile France (100% basis)
 
 


