FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20110913080253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
September 13, 2011
 
 
BEST BUY CO., INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(612) 291-1000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On
September 13, 2011
, Best Buy Co., Inc. (Best Buy or the registrant) issued a news release announcing its results of operations for the
second
quarter ended
August 27, 2011
. The registrant also updated its earnings guidance for the fiscal year ending
March 3, 2012
, in the news release. Further details on the updated guidance are available on the registrant's Web site at www.investors.bestbuy.com.
 
The registrant is scheduled to conduct an earnings conference call at 10 a.m. Eastern Time on
September 13, 2011
. The earnings conference call is expected to be available live on the registrants Web site at www.investors.bestbuy.com.
 
The news release issued on
September 13, 2011
, is furnished as Exhibit No. 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Best Buy Co., Inc.s Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
 
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit No. 99 hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
2
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3

Exhibit 99
 
Best Buy Reports Fiscal Second Quarter Results
Strong revenue growth in tablets and appliances; total revenue flat
Share repurchases reach $863 million fiscal year to date
Company updates fiscal year EPS guidance
 
Fiscal Second Quarter Financial Summary
 
Fiscal Second Quarter Highlights
 
MINNEAPOLIS, Sept 13, 2011 -- Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE: BBY), a leading multi-channel global retailer and developer of technology products and services, today reported net earnings of $177 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, for its fiscal second quarter ended August 27, 2011, compared with $254 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, for the prior-year period.
I'd like to thank our employees around the world for continuing to provide a great experience for our customers, said Brian J. Dunn, CEO of Best Buy. While results in the second quarter and our outlook reflect
1
continued macro challenges to overall consumer spending and lower consumer electronics industry sales, we have made good progress on our key strategic focus areas in this environment. Looking forward to the important holiday season, I believe Best Buy is well positioned to bring the benefits of our multi-channel model to our customers and shareholders.
Revenue
 
Total Company revenue was $11.3 billion during the quarter, which was essentially flat compared to the prior-year period and included a comparable store sales decline of 2.8 percent. Within the Domestic segment, areas of comparable store sales growth included mobile computing (including tablets), appliances, and eReaders. The online channel delivered a 13 percent revenue increase in the Domestic segment during the quarter, driven largely by traffic growth. These sales gains were offset primarily by comparable store sales declines in television, gaming, digital imaging and physical media. The Company noted that mobile phones comparable stores sales experienced a 5 percent decline due to industry softness driven by the lack of significant new phone launches during the quarter relative to the prior-year period. The Company believes that it continued to grow share in mobile phones in the second quarter. The growth of International segment revenue was driven by foreign currency exchange rates and the continued solid growth performance of the Five Star business in China, which delivered comparable store sales gains during the period, partially offset by Europe and Canada, which each experienced comparable store sales declines.
 
Gross Profit
 
Total Company gross profit dollars declined 2 percent during the quarter compared to the prior-year period. The Domestic segment gross profit dollar decline was driven by a rate decline of 50 basis points and the 1.5 percent decline in revenue. The primary factors influencing the rate decline included continued promotional activity to increase sales in select categories and higher sales of service products which include deferred revenue, partially offset by an improved rate in mobile phones. The International segment gross profit dollar growth of 4 percent during the quarter was driven primarily by foreign currency exchange rates as well as increased revenue and an improved gross profit rate in the Five Star business, partially offset by a gross profit decline in Europe. The International segment gross profit rate declined 20 basis points, driven primarily by promotional activity within Europe, partially offset by an improved profit rate in Canada.
2
Selling, General and Administrative expenses (SG&A)
 
Total Company SG&A spending increased 3 percent during the quarter compared to the prior-year period. Excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rates, total Company SG&A increased 1 percent. Within the Domestic segment, the 2 percent increase in SG&A was primarily driven by the net addition of 113 Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores and 14 large-format Best Buy locations, as well as increased advertising support. Within the International segment, SG&A spending increased 6 percent. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, International segment SG&A spending declined 2 percent.
Operating Income
 
 
Share Repurchases and Dividend
During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company repurchased $358 million, or 12.7 million shares, of its common stock at an average price of $28.31 per share. For the first six months of fiscal 2012, the Company repurchased $863 million, or 29.2 million shares, of its common stock at an average price of $29.51 per share. On July 26, 2011, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per common share outstanding, or $56 million in the aggregate.
 
Company Updates Fiscal 2012 Annual Guidance
Based on consumer spending and CE industry trends experienced year-to-date and expectations for the remainder of the fiscal year, the Company has updated its annual guidance:
3
Conference Call
Best Buy is scheduled to conduct an earnings conference call at 10 a.m. Eastern Time (9 a.m. Central Time) on September 13, 2011. A webcast of the call is expected to be available on its Web site at www.investors.bestbuy.com both live and after the call. A telephone replay is also available starting at approximately 12:30 pm Eastern Time (11:30 a.m. Central Time) on September 13 through September 20. The dial-in number for the replay is 800-406-7325 (domestic) or 303-590-3030 (international), and the access code is 4465962.
(1)
Best Buy's comparable store sales is comprised of revenue at stores, call centers, and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months as well as revenue related to other comparable sales channels. Relocated, remodeled and expanded stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of the acquisition. The portion of the calculation of the comparable store sales percentage change attributable to the International segment excludes the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The method of calculating comparable store sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, Best Buy's method of calculating comparable store sales may not be the same as other retailers' methods.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements:
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as contained in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that reflect management's current views and estimates regarding future market conditions, company performance and financial results, business prospects, new strategies, the competitive environment and other events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they use words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, project, guidance, plan, outlook, and other words and terms of similar meaning. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements are the following: general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, credit market constraints, acquisitions and development of new businesses, divestitures, product availability, sales volumes, pricing actions and promotional activities of competitors, profit margins, weather, changes in law or regulations, foreign currency fluctuation, availability of suitable real estate locations, the Company's ability to react to a disaster recovery situation, the impact of labor markets and new product introductions on overall profitability, failure to achieve anticipated benefits of announced transactions and integration challenges relating to new ventures. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Best Buy's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on April 25, 2011. Best Buy cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement that it may make.
 
About Best Buy
Co., Inc.
Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE: BBY) is a leading multi-channel global retailer and developer of technology products and services. Every day our employees - 180,000 strong - are committed to helping deliver the technology solutions that enable easy access to people, knowledge, ideas and fun. We are keenly aware of our role and impact on the world, and we are committed to developing and implementing business strategies that bring sustainable technology solutions to our consumers and communities. For additional information about Best Buy, visit www.investors.bestbuy.com.
 
Investor Contacts:
Bill Seymour, Vice President, Investor Relations
(612) 291-6122 or  bill.seymour@bestbuy.com
 
Adam Hauser, Director, Investor Relations
(612) 291-4446 or  adam.hauser@bestbuy.com
 
Mollie OBrien, Director, Investor Relations
(612) 291-7735 or  mollie.obrien@bestbuy.com
 
Media Contacts:
Susan Busch, Senior Director, Public Relations
(612) 291-6114 or  susan.busch@bestbuy.com
 
Lisa Hawks, Director, Public Relations
(612) 291-6150 or  lisa.hawks@bestbuy.com
4
BEST BUY CO., INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
 
(1)
 The calculation of diluted earnings per share assumes the conversion of the Company's convertible debentures due in 2022 into 8.8 million shares of common stock and adds back the related after-tax interest expense of $1.4 and $1.5 for the three months ended Aug. 27, 2011 and Aug. 28, 2010, respectively, and $2.8 and $2.9 for the six months ended Aug. 27, 2011 and Aug. 28, 2010, respectively.
5
BEST BUY CO., INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
($ in millions)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
6
BEST BUY CO., INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
($ in millions)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
7
BEST BUY CO., INC.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
($ in millions)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
Domestic Segment Performance Summary
 
International Segment Performance Summary
 
(1)
 Best Buy's comparable store sales is comprised of revenue at stores, call centers, and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months as well as revenue related to other comparable sales channels. Relocated, remodeled and expanded stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of the acquisition. The portion of the calculation of the comparable store sales percentage change attributable to the International segment excludes the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The method of calculating comparable store sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, Best Buy's method of calculating comparable store sales may not be the same as other retailers' methods.
8
BEST BUY CO., INC.
REVENUE CATEGORY SUMMARY
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
Domestic Segment Summary
 
International Segment Summary
 
(1)
 T
he previous "Home Office" revenue category has been renamed to "Computing and Mobile Phones" to more clearly describe the key products contained within the category. However, the composition of the products within this category has not changed from previous disclosures.
(2)
 
The Services revenue category consists primarily of service contracts, extended warranties, computer related services, product repair and delivery and installation for home theater, mobile audio and appliances.
9


