FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20110617163745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events
 
On June 17, 2011, Best Buy Co., Inc. ("Best Buy" or the "registrant") filed a notice of class settlement with the United States District Court, Northern District of California (the "Court") of the employment discrimination action previously disclosed in Best Buy's periodic SEC reports entitled   The proposed settlement is subject to final court approval after a hearing yet to be scheduled.  The proposed settlement is generally described in the news release dated June 17, 2011, which is filed as exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Jasmen Holloway, et. al. v. Best Buy Co., Inc.
 
The news release issued on June 17, 2011, is filed as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Best Buy Co., Inc.'s Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following is filed as an Exhibit to this Report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Best Buy, Employees Agree to Class Action Settlement of Employment Discrimination Suit
 
SAN FRANCISCO, CA (June 17, 2011)  Best Buy and civil rights lawyers today announced a proposed settlement of an employment discrimination class action brought on behalf of women and minority employees of Best Buy.  The settlement remains subject to court approval.
 
Through this settlement, Best Buy agrees to changes to its personnel policies and procedures that will enhance the equal employment opportunities of the thousands of women, African Americans, and Latinos employed by Best Buy nationwide.  One of the counsel for Plaintiffs, Eve Cervantez, said that "Best Buy's commitment to these changes makes it a best in class' employer of women and minorities and a leader in the areas of diversity and inclusion."  Best Buy said that these changes are part of Best Buy's continuous improvement of its employees' experience and the systems which support that experience.
 
The settlement has been submitted for approval to the Hon. Phyllis J. Hamilton, United States District Judge for the Northern District of California.
 
Background on the litigation
 
The lawsuit, filed in December 2005, alleged that Best Buy discriminates against women, African American, and Latino employees of Best Buy retail stores in the United States by denying them promotions and more lucrative sales positions.  Best Buy has denied any wrongdoing throughout the litigation.
 
In reaching this proposed settlement, the parties agreed that it was in the interest of Best Buy, the plaintiffs, and the employee classes to resolve the matter through a settlement that provides injunctive relief to all class members, rather than to proceed with litigation.
 
The case is entitled , Civil Action No. 3:05-cv-05056-PJH (N.D. Cal.).
Holloway v. Best Buy
 
Contacts:
 
 


