FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20121219165947.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
December 19, 2012
BEST BUY CO., INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(612) 291-1000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On December 19, 2012, Best Buy Co., Inc. ("Best Buy" or the "registrant" or the "Company") issued a news release announcing that Stephen Gillett, Executive Vice President and President, Best Buy Digital, is leaving the Company to pursue another career opportunity.
The news release issued on December 19, 2012, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that Section unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(d) Exhibits.
The following Exhibit 99 is furnished as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
2
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
  
3

Exhibit 99
Media Contacts:
Amy von Walter, Senior Director, Public Relations
(612) 291-4490 or amy.vonwalter@bestbuy.com
Investor Contacts:
Bill Seymour, Vice President, Investor Relations
(612) 291-6122 or  bill.seymour@bestbuy.com
Mollie O'Brien, Director, Investor Relations
(612) 291-7735 or  mollie.obrien@bestbuy.com
Best Buy Makes Personnel Announcement
MINNEAPOLIS - Dec. 19, 2012 - Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE: BBY) announced today that Stephen Gillett, executive vice president and president, Best Buy Digital, is leaving the business to pursue other career opportunities at a leading technology company, where he currently serves on the Board of Directors. Gillett's responsibilities have been re-assigned to senior executives across the company, including the company's Chief Administrative and Chief Financial Officer, Sharon McCollam, its President of Online and Global E-Commerce, Scott Durchslag and Shawn Score, senior vice president of U.S. Retail.
 
"We are grateful for Stephen's contributions during his time at Best Buy, said Best Buy President and CEO Hubert Joly. And we wish him well as he returns to his roots and assumes a very senior role at Symantec.
 
We have recently strengthened our management team by recruiting Sharon and Scott and promoting Shawn, all of whom have deep experience in the added functional areas they will now assume. Sharon, of course, was the chief operating officer of Williams-Sonoma, a company well known for its world-class multi-channel operations. Scott, who now reports directly to me, has been the president or chief operating officer of three extremely well known tech companies, Expedia, Skype and Motorola. And Shawn has more than 25 years of deep retail experience, including having led the highly successful Best Buy Mobile unit, said Joly. They, and our entire executive team, are excited to continue on our journey to reinvigorate and transform Best Buy as a leading multi-channel specialty retailer, he added.
 
"What I will miss the most is working with the teams at Best Buy on what I still believe could be one of the most significant business transformation opportunities in recent years, said Gillett.


