FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20120904165453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
September 4, 2012
BEST BUY CO., INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(612) 291-1000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
As disclosed on the Form 8-K filed by Best Buy Co., Inc. ("Best Buy" or the "registrant") on August 21, 2012, the registrant announced that its Board of Directors appointed Hubert Joly, 53, as Best Buy's President and Chief Executive Officer, subject to and conditioned upon the approval of Mr. Joly's registrant-sponsored U.S. work authorization permitting Mr. Joly to commence employment with Best Buy. On September 4, 2012, the registrant announced that the registrant-sponsored U.S. work authorization permitting Hubert Joly to commence employment with Best Buy was approved. Mr. Joly will commence employment as President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of the registrant effective September 4, 2012.
On September 4, 2012, Best Buy issued a news release announcing that Mr. Joly will commence employment as President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of the registrant effective September 4, 2012.
As previously announced by the registrant on August 20, 2012, upon stepping down as interim Chief Executive Officer, George L. Mikan III will assume the chairmanship of the registrant's Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and will also serve as a member of the registrant's Finance and Investment Policy Committee.  Hatim Tyabji will continue to serve on the Audit Committee but has stepped down as a member of the registrant's Compensation and Human Resources Committee in light of his additional duties as Chairman of the Board.
The news release issued on September 4, 2012 is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that Section unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
(d) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
  

Exhibit 99
Joly starts first official day as President, Chief Executive Officer of Best Buy
RICHFIELD, Minn. - September 4, 2012 - Best Buy Co., Inc. has announced that today is Hubert Joly's first official day as President and Chief Executive Officer of the company. Joly, appointed to his position August 20, 2012 by the Board of Directors, will spend his first week on the job working as a Blue Shirt in several Best Buy locations in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area.
 
"Best Buy is a company with an amazing history, enormous assets and great opportunities," Joly said. "I am eager to start working with everybody at Best Buy to define and take the actions that will allow us to win in the marketplace, and to be seen by all of our stakeholders as the best buy."
Contact:
Kelly Groehler, (612) 291-6115 or
kelly.groehler@bestbuy.com


