FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20120329080435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
March 29, 2012
BEST BUY CO., INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(612) 291-1000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On March 29, 2012, Best Buy Co., Inc. (Best Buy or the registrant) issued a news release announcing its results of operations for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 3, 2012. In the news release, the registrant also provided its financial outlook and earnings guidance for the twelve months ending February 2, 2013, which includes the results of the five weeks ended March 3, 2012, as a result of the change in fiscal year announced by the registrant on November 7, 2011.
The registrant is scheduled to conduct an earnings conference call at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time on March 29, 2012. The earnings conference call is expected to be available live on the registrants Web site at www.investors.bestbuy.com.
The news release issued on March 29, 2012, is furnished as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Best Buys Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
On March 29, 2012, as described below under Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, the registrant posted supplementary financial information for fiscal years 2011 and 2012, recast to reflect results based on the registrant's new fiscal year. The registrant is furnishing, as Exhibit No. 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, the supplementary financial information posted on March 29, 2012.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits No. 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that Section
unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
.
On March 29, 2012, Best Buy also announced a transformation strategy, consisting of a series of actions intended to improve operating performance. The actions include closure of U.S. Best Buy big box stores, changes to the store and corporate operating models, and other measures intended to reduce costs associated with product life-cycle management and supply chain. The costs of implementing the changes primarily consist of lease exit costs, employee severance and fixed asset impairments.
The registrant will begin initiating the announced actions in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and expects to complete the actions by the end of fiscal 2013. The registrant preliminarily expects to incur total pre-tax restructuring charges of between $300 million and $350 million related to the actions. Given the timing of these actions, the registrant estimates that between $140 million and $160 million of the charges will be recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, consisting primarily of employee severance and fixed asset impairments. The lease exit costs will be recorded throughout the remainder of fiscal 2013 as the stores are closed. The total charges include between $270 million and $310 million of cash payments.
The amount of the restructuring charges noted above are estimates, and the actual charges may vary materially based on various factors, including but not limited to the following: the timing of store closures; level of employee terminations; factors relating to real estate, such as sale proceeds and the timing and amount of sublease income and other related expenses; and changes in managements assumptions.
Additional information regarding the restructuring is included under the caption Actions to Transform Business Operations on pages two to four of the news release issued on March 29, 2012, which additional information is filed as Exhibit No. 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The balance of the news release shall not be deemed filed under this Item 2.05 for purposes of Section 18 of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that Section unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition, on March 29, 2012, the registrant posted supplementary financial information for fiscal years 2011 and 2012, recast to reflect results based on the registrant's new fiscal year. As announced on November 7, 2011, Best Buy will change its fiscal year to end on the Saturday nearest the end of January of each calendar year, effective beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. The supplementary financial information is available on the registrant's Web site at www.investors.bestbuy.com.
2
The registrant is furnishing, as Exhibit No. 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, the supplementary financial information posted on March 29, 2012.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the supplementary financial information attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 9134, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that Section unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Some of the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1) constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe-harbor" provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements other than those made solely with respect to historical fact and are based on the intent, belief or current expectations of the registrant and/or its management. The registrant's business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that might cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in the registrant's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(d) Exhibits.
The following are furnished as Exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
3
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
  
4

Best Buy Reports Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Results
Outlines New Transformation Strategy
Describes Specific Actions to Improve Business Performance
-- Fourth Quarter and Full Year EPS:
-- GAAP: loss of ($4.89) in the fourth quarter; ($3.36) for the full year, inclusive of previously announced charges
-- Adjusted (non-GAAP): profit of $2.47 in the fourth quarter, up 25 percent; $3.64 for the full year, up 6 percent
-- Transformation Strategy to Focus on:
-- Multi-year cost reduction program
-- U.S. store format improvements
-- Growth initiatives
-- Improved customer experience
-- Actions to Improve Business Performance:
-- $800 million in planned cost reductions by fiscal 2015; $250 million in fiscal 2013
-- Reductions to fund investments in enhanced customer experience and growth initiatives
-- Launch Connected Store full market test in the Twin Cities and San Antonio in fiscal 2013
-- Closure of 50 U.S. big box stores in fiscal 2013
-- Opening of 100 U.S. Best Buy Mobile small format stand-alone stores in fiscal 2013
-- Plans to grow Domestic segment online revenue 15 percent in fiscal 2013
    
-- Fiscal 2013 EPS Outlook
-- GAAP: $2.85 to $3.25
-- Adjusted (non-GAAP): $3.50 to $3.80, up 3 to 12 percent vs fiscal 2012 EPS of $3.39 (as recast for new fiscal year)
MINNEAPOLIS, March 29, 2012 -- Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE: BBY) today reported a GAAP net loss of ($1.7) billion, or ($4.89) per share, for its fourth quarter ended March 3, 2012 compared to net income of $651 million, or $1.62 per diluted share for the prior-year period. The fiscal fourth quarter 2012 results include $2.6 billion of charges primarily related to the actions announced on November 7, 2011, which consist of the purchase of Carphone Warehouse Group plc's (CPW) share of the Best Buy Mobile profit share agreement and related costs, a non-cash impairment charge to reflect the write-off of Best Buy Europe goodwill, and restructuring charges (primarily associated with U.K. big box pilot store closures).
1
Excluding the above charges, adjusted (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $2.47, an increase of 25 percent when compared to adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.98 for the prior-year period. Comparable store sales for the quarter declined 2.4 percent compared to a decline of 4.7 percent for the prior-year period.
For the fiscal year ended March 3, 2012, GAAP loss per share totaled ($3.36) compared to diluted earnings per share of $3.08 in fiscal 2011. Adjusted (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year totaled $3.64, an increase of 6 percent when compared to the previous year's adjusted diluted earnings per share of $3.43. Comparable store sales for the fiscal year declined 1.7 percent compared to a decline of 1.8 percent for the prior-year period.
Please see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures attached to this release and on the investor relations website, www.investors.bestbuy.com, for more detail.
ACTIONS TO TRANSFORM BUSINESS OPERATIONS
In order to help make technology work for every one of our customers and transform our business as the consumer electronics industry continues to evolve, we are taking major actions to improve our operating performance, said Brian J. Dunn, CEO of Best Buy.
As part of our multi-channel strategy, we intend to strengthen our portfolio of store formats and footprints --- closing some big box stores, modifying others to our enhanced Connected Store format, and adding Best Buy Mobile stand-alone locations --- all to provide a better shopping environment for our customers across multiple channels while increasing points of presence, and to improve performance and profitability.
These changes will also help lower our overall cost structure. We intend to invest some of these cost savings into offering new and improved customer experiences and competitive prices --- which will help drive revenue. And, over time, we expect some of the savings will fall to the bottom line. At the same time, we will continue to accelerate our key initiatives --- growing connections and services, expanding our digital capabilities and growing our business in China.
As a result, we believe these actions will position us to grow earnings, improve ROIC, and increase value to our shareholders in the years ahead.
$800 Million Multi-year Cost Reduction Program
In order to be more efficient and align the company with the opportunities that will provide the greatest returns, the company is taking significant actions to lower its cost base:
2
U.S. Store Format Improvements
Best Buy's retail store strategy is to increase points of presence, while decreasing overall square footage, for increased flexibility in a multi-channel environment. The company intends to remodel key stores with a new Connected Store format in fiscal 2013, and to continue to build out the successful Best Buy Mobile small format stores throughout the U.S.
    
Growth Initiatives
Best Buy plans to invest to maximize the long-term opportunities offered through its existing four key growth initiatives: e-commerce, connections, services and China.
3
Improved Customer Experience
Best Buy plans to expand the benefits under its Reward Zone Silver loyalty program, whose members account for a significant percentage of the company's profit. Reward Zone Silver customers will receive exciting enhancements including free expedited shipping, premier access to many of the most popular products and major sales events, a free house call from the Geek Squad, and 60-day no hassle returns and price-match policy.
As part of the company's actions to significantly improve the customer experience, Best Buy will be making important changes later this year to its store operating model that are designed to drive a differentiated employee experience. The company plans to introduce a new store labor model to be implemented in all of its U.S. big box stores before the 2012 holiday season that will provide increased store employee training and a new enhanced compensation plan that introduces financial incentives for delivering on customer service and business goals. The new compensation plan, which will be implemented across the company later this year, is based on a model that has been used successfully in the company's Best Buy Mobile stores.
FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR FISCAL 2012 FINANCIAL RESULTS
As announced November 7, 2011, net operating results from the closed Best Buy stores in the U.K., China and Turkey, along with other recently sold businesses, are now treated as discontinued operations.
All information regarding the company's operating results, unless otherwise noted, pertains to its continuing operations.
4
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2012 Highlights
Fiscal Full Year 2012 Highlights
Revenue
5
Total company revenue was $16.6 billion during the fiscal fourth quarter, an increase of 3.4 percent compared to the prior-year period and included a comparable store sales decline of 2.4 percent. Excluding the 53rd week in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, total company revenue declined 1.1 percent compared to the prior-year period. The Domestic segment areas of comparable store sales growth included tablets and mobile phones within the Computing & Mobile Phones revenue category and eReaders within the Consumer Electronics revenue category.
These increases were more than offset by comparable store sales declines in other areas, including gaming within the Entertainment revenue category, notebooks within the Computing and Mobile Phones category and digital imaging and televisions within the Consumer Electronics revenue category. The Domestic segment online channel delivered a 21 percent revenue increase compared to the prior-year period.
The International segment comparable store sales decline was primarily driven by industry softness in gaming, home theater and digital imaging in Canada and lower connections in Europe given the difficult macro environment, partially offset by gains in our Five Star stores in China.
Gross Profit
Excluding restructuring charges, Domestic segment adjusted gross profit dollars increased 3 percent including the 53rd week and represented a rate decline of 40 basis points. The primary factor influencing this Domestic segment rate decline was a larger mix of lower-margin promotional small and mid-size televisions. International segment gross profit dollar growth of 6 percent was the result of a rate increase of 120 basis points driven by improvements from stores throughout the International segment.
 
Selling, General and Administrative expenses (SG&A)
In the Domestic segment, focused cost control activities resulted in only 1 percent growth in SG&A spending compared to the prior-year period. The International segment's SG&A includes $46 million in costs related to the purchase of CPW's share of the Best Buy Mobile profit share agreement. Excluding those expenses, International segment adjusted
6
SG&A spending increased 7 percent, driven primarily by the absence of a Best Buy Mobile profit share payment, which historically was an increase in Domestic segment SG&A and a reduction in International segment SG&A, and new store openings in Canada.
Total company adjusted SG&A dollar spending increased 2 percent and as a percent of revenue improved 20 basis points. Excluding the effect of the 53
rd
week, total company adjusted SG&A spending was approximately flat.
Operating Income
Excluding restructuring charges, costs related to the purchase of CPW's share of the Best Buy Mobile profit share agreement and the goodwill impairment, adjusted operating income for the quarter increased 6 percent to $1.4 billion, or 8.2 percent of revenue, compared to $1.3 billion, or 8.0 percent of revenue, for the prior-year period.
Please see the table titled Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures attached to this release for more detail.
Free Cash Flow, Share Repurchases and Dividends
Fiscal 2012 free cash flow was $2.5 billion, primarily driven by effective management of inventory levels and the timing of several working capital items at the end of the previous fiscal year. During the fourth quarter, the company repurchased $317 million, or 12.8 million shares, of its common stock at an average price of $24.76 per share. For the full year, the company repurchased $1.5 billion, or 54.6 million shares, of its common stock at an average price of $27.47 per share. On January 24, 2012, the company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.16 per common share outstanding, or $56 million in the aggregate.
Fiscal Year Change
As announced on November 7, 2011, Best Buy will change its fiscal year to end the Saturday nearest the end of January, effective starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. Below is detail on the quarterly periods for fiscal 2013, which includes 53 weeks:
 
Under the new fiscal year, fiscal 2013 will include 53 weeks, while the recast fiscal 2012 includes 52 weeks. The company's
7
annual report for fiscal 2013 on Form 10-K will cover the 11-month period of March 4, 2012, to February 2, 2013. For important information on the fiscal year change, including fiscal 2011 and 2012 financial statements recast for the new fiscal year, please visit the company's investor relations website,
www.investors.bestbuy.com
.
Fiscal 2013 Annual Guidance
The following guidance is based on the company's new fiscal year. Fiscal 2013 comprises the 53-week period ending on February 2, 2013, and fiscal 2012 now comprises the 52-week period ending on January 28, 2012.
 
The company's preliminary estimates for pre-tax restructuring charges in fiscal 2013 related to its transformation strategy outlined above is a range of $300 to $350 million, including store closures, severance, asset impairments and other costs. Including these charges, the preliminary GAAP diluted EPS is expected in the range of $2.85 to $3.25. Please see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Guidance attached to this release for more detail.
 
For more information on the fiscal year change, including fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 financial statements recast for the new fiscal year, please visit the company's investor relations website,
www.investors.bestbuy.com
.
 
Conference Call
Best Buy is scheduled to conduct an earnings conference call at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time (9:30 a.m. Central Time) on March 29, 2012. A webcast of the call is expected to be available on its Web site at
www.investors.bestbuy.com
both live and after the call. A telephone replay is also available starting at approximately 12:30 pm Eastern Time (11:30 a.m. Central Time) on March 29 through April 5. The dial-in number for the replay is 800-406-7325 (domestic) or 303-590-3030 (international), and the access code is 4519369.
(1) Best Buy Domestic connections units include pre-paid and post-paid mobile phone handsets and video and broadband services activations.
(2)
Best Buy's comparable store sales is comprised of revenue at stores, call centers, and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months as well as revenue related to other comparable sales channels. Relocated, remodeled and expanded stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of the acquisition. The portion of the calculation of the comparable store sales percentage change attributable
8
to the International segment excludes the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The method of calculating comparable store sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, Best Buy's method of calculating comparable store sales may not be the same as other retailers' methods. The calculation of comparable store sales excludes the impact of the extra week of revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.
(3) The company defines adjusted gross profit, adjusted SG&A and adjusted operating income from continuing operations for the periods presented as its reported gross profit, SG&A and operating income from continuing operations for those periods calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) adjusted to exclude the effects of restructuring charges, costs related to the purchase of CPW's share of the Best Buy Mobile profit share agreement (Best Buy Europe transaction costs) and the goodwill impairment referenced earlier in this release. In addition, the company defines adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the periods presented as its reported net earnings and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations calculated in accordance with GAAP adjusted to exclude the effects of restructuring charges, Best Buy Europe transaction costs, the goodwill impairment, gain on sale of investments and the noncontrolling interest impact of the restructuring charges, Best Buy Europe transaction costs and the purchase of CPW's share of the Best Buy Mobile profit share agreement.
These non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with an understanding of the company's gross profit, SG&A, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations adjusted to exclude the effect of the items described above. These non-GAAP financial measures assist investors in making a ready comparison of the company's gross profit, SG&A, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for its fiscal quarter and year ended March 3, 2012, against the company's results for the respective prior-year periods and against third party estimates of the company's diluted earnings per share for those periods that may not have included the effect of such items. Additionally, management uses these non-GAAP financial measures as an internal measure to analyze trends, allocate resources and analyze underlying operating performance. Please see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures attached to this release for more detail.
(4) The company defines adjusted revenue, gross profit, adjusted SG&A and adjusted operating income from total operations for the periods presented as its revenue, gross profit, SG&A and operating income from continuing operations for those periods calculated in accordance with GAAP adjusted to include the effects of discontinued operations and exclude the effects of restructuring charges, Best Buy Europe transaction costs and the goodwill impairment referenced earlier in this release. In addition, the company defines adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share for the periods presented as its reported net earnings and diluted earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP adjusted to exclude the effects of restructuring charges, Best Buy Europe transaction costs, the goodwill impairment, gain on sale of investments and the noncontrolling interest impact of the restructuring charges, Best Buy Europe transaction costs and the purchase of CPW's share of the Best Buy Mobile profit share agreement.
These non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with an understanding of the company's revenue, gross profit, SG&A, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share from total operations adjusted to exclude the effect of the items described above. These non-GAAP financial measures assist investors in making a ready comparison of the company's revenue, gross profit, SG&A, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share for its fiscal quarter and year ended March 3, 2012, against the company's results for the respective prior-year periods, against management's previously provided guidance and against third party estimates of the company's diluted earnings per share for those periods that may not have included the effect of such items. Please see Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures attached to this release for more detail.
(5) Best Buy defines free cash flow as total cash provided by operating activities less additions to property and equipment. This non-GAAP financial measure assists investors in making a ready comparison of the company's free cash flow for the year ended March 3, 2012, against the company's results for the respective prior-year periods and against management's previously provided expectations. Please see Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows attached to this release for more detail.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements:
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as contained in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that reflect management's current views and estimates regarding future market conditions, company performance and financial results, business prospects, new strategies, the competitive environment and other events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they use words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect,
9
intend, project, guidance, plan, outlook, and other words and terms of similar meaning. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements are the following: general economic conditions, changes in consumer preferences, credit market constraints, acquisitions and development of new businesses, divestitures, product availability, sales volumes, pricing actions and promotional activities of competitors, profit margins, weather, natural or man-made disasters, changes in law or regulations, foreign currency fluctuation, availability of suitable real estate locations, the company's ability to react to a disaster recovery situation, the impact of labor markets and new product introductions on overall profitability, failure to achieve anticipated benefits of announced transactions, integration challenges relating to new ventures and unanticipated costs associated with previously announced or future restructuring activities. A further list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in the company's annual report and other reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Best Buy's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on April 25, 2011. Best Buy cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete, and any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and Best Buy assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement that it may make.
About Best Buy Co., Inc.
Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE: BBY) is a leading multi-channel global retailer and developer of technology products and services. Every day our employees - 180,000 strong - are committed to helping deliver the technology solutions that enable easy access to people, knowledge, ideas and fun. We are keenly aware of our role and impact on the world, and we are committed to developing and implementing business strategies that bring sustainable technology solutions to our consumers and communities. For additional information about Best Buy, visit www.investors.bestbuy.com.
Investor Contacts:
Bill Seymour, Vice President, Investor Relations
(612) 291-6122 or
bill.seymour@bestbuy.com
Adam Hauser, Director, Investor Relations
(612) 291-4446 or
adam.hauser@bestbuy.com
Mollie O'Brien, Director, Investor Relations
(612) 291-7735 or
mollie.obrien@bestbuy.com
Media Contacts:
Susan Busch, Senior Director, Public Relations
(612) 291-6114 or
susan.busch@bestbuy.com
Esty Pujadas, Ketchum Public Relations
646-935-4073 or
esty.pujadas@ketchum.com
10
BEST BUY CO., INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
 
(1)
 
The calculation of diluted earnings per share assumes the conversion of the company's previously outstanding convertible debentures due in 2022 into 8.8 million shares common stock in both the three and twelve months ended February 26, 2011, and adds back the related after-tax interest expense of $1.5 and $5.8 for the three and twelve months ended February 26, 2011, respectively. The calculation of diluted (loss) per share for the three and twelve months ended March 3, 2012 does not include potentially dilutive shares of common stock because their inclusion would be anti-dilutive (i.e., reduce the net loss per share).
11
BEST BUY CO., INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
($ in millions)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
12
BEST BUY CO., INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
($ in millions)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
13
BEST BUY CO., INC.
SEGMENT INFORMATION
($ in millions)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
Domestic Segment Performance Summary - Continuing Operations
 
International Segment Performance Summary - Continuing Operations
 
(1)
 Best Buy's comparable store sales is comprised of revenue at stores, call centers, and Web sites operating for at least 14 full months as well as revenue related to other comparable sales channels. Relocated, remodeled and expanded stores are excluded from the comparable store sales calculation until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquired stores are included in the comparable store sales calculation beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of the acquisition. The portion of the calculation of the comparable store sales percentage change attributable to the International segment excludes the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The method of calculating comparable store sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, Best Buy's method of calculating comparable store sales may not be the same as other retailers' methods.
(2)
 Domestic segment excludes the impact of previously announced restructuring charges. International segment excludes the impact of previously announced restructuring charges, Best Buy Europe transaction costs and goodwill impairment. Please see table titled Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures at the back of this release.
14
BEST BUY CO., INC.
REVENUE CATEGORY SUMMARY
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
 
Domestic Segment Summary - Continuing Operations
 
International Segment Summary - Continuing Operations
 
(1)
 The previous "Home Office" revenue category has been renamed to "Computing and Mobile Phones" to more clearly describe the key products contained within the category. However, the composition of the products within this category has not changed from previous disclosures.
(2)
 The Services revenue category consists primarily of service contracts, extended warranties, computer related services, product repair and delivery and installation for home theater, mobile audio and appliances.
15
BEST BUY CO., INC.
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
CONTINUING OPERATIONS
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
The following information provides reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures from continuing operations presented in the accompanying news release to the most comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The company has provided non-GAAP financial measures, which are not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as information supplemental and in addition to the financial measures presented in the accompanying news release that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Such non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented in the news release. The non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying news release may differ from similar measures used by other companies.
The following tables reconcile gross profit, SG&A, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented for continuing operations (GAAP financial measures) to adjusted gross profit, adjusted SG&A, adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share for continuing operations (non-GAAP financial measures) for the periods presented.
16
17
18
BEST BUY CO., INC.
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
TOTAL OPERATIONS (CONTINUING AND DISCONTINUED)
($ in millions, except per share amounts)
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
The following information provides reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures from total operations presented in the accompanying news release to the most comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The company has provided non-GAAP financial measures, which are not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as information supplemental and in addition to the financial measures presented in the accompanying news release that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Such non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented in the news release. The non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying news release may differ from similar measures used by other companies.
The following tables reconcile revenue, gross profit, SG&A, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented for total operations, which includes continuing and discontinued operations (GAAP financial measures), to adjusted revenue, gross profit, adjusted SG&A, adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share for total operations (non-GAAP financial measures) for the periods presented.
19
20
21
BEST BUY CO., INC.
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP GUIDANCE
(Unaudited and subject to reclassification)
The following information provides reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures presented in the accompanying news release to the most comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The company has provided non-GAAP financial measures, which are not calculated or presented in accordance with GAAP, as information supplemental and in addition to the financial measures presented in the accompanying news release that are calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Such non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered superior to, as a substitute for, or as an alternative to, and should be considered in conjunction with, the GAAP financial measures presented in the news release. The non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying news release may differ from similar measures used by other companies.
The following tables reconcile operating income from continuing operations, operating income from total operations (including both continuing and discontinued operations) and EPS guidance for the period presented (GAAP financial measures) to adjusted operating income from continuing operations, adjusted operating income from total operations (including both continuing and discontinued operations) and adjusted diluted EPS guidance (non-GAAP financial measures) for the period presented.
(1)
Provided for context to understand our operating income guidance from continuing operations.
22



