FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20121113120359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
November 13, 2012
BEST BUY CO., INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(612) 291-1000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On November 13, 2012, Best Buy Co., Inc. (Best Buy or the registrant) issued a news release related to its Analyst and Investor Day being held in New York City on that date. The Analyst and Investor Day conference will outline Best Buy's strategic plan intended to improve financial performance.
The conference will begin at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time on November 13, 2012, and is expected to be available live on the registrants website at www.investors.bestbuy.com. In addition, the registrant will provide copies of the presentation materials accompanying the conference on its website.
The news release issued on November 13, 2012, is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99 hereto, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liability of that Section unless the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Some of the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99) constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe-harbor" provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements other than those made solely with respect to historical fact and are based on the intent, belief or current expectations of the registrant and/or its management. The registrant's business and operations are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that might cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in the registrant's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
(d) Exhibits.
The following Exhibit 99 is furnished as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
2
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
  
3

Exhibit 99
Best Buy Holds Analyst and Investor Day to Provide Assessment of the Company
And to Outline Priorities to Reinvigorate Performance and Rejuvenate its Business
NEW YORK, November 13, 2012 - Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE:BBY), the leading multi-channel retailer of technology products and services, will outline today at an analyst and investor conference its priorities to strengthen its operational and financial performance.
Best Buy President and CEO Hubert Joly will share his assessment of Best Buy's situation and initial priorities.
Since joining Best Buy three months ago, I have worked with management to undertake a candid assessment of our strengths and weaknesses. The great news is that Best Buy has amazing strengths on which to build. We are the leader in a growing and fragmented market and our market share has been stable or growing in most product categories. We have a highly skilled and engaged workforce that is passionate about customer service. We have a large customer base with 40 million active members in our loyalty program. And we have a unique and compelling value proposition, providing distinctive customer benefits - including access to the latest devices, impartial and knowledgeable advice, competitive prices, the convenience of a multi-channel shopping experience and expert support via our Geek Squad. This is a very strong platform on which to build.
That said, our recent performance has been unsatisfactory in a number of areas. While we are the 11
th
largest e-commerce player in the U.S. across all product categories, we have been too slow to capture our fair share of the online channel. While our customer satisfaction has been increasing in the last months, we have room for improvement. We have been suffering from a price perception issue. And, although our operating metrics are among the highest in the industry, our top line and bottom line performance have been declining. These trends, combined with the continued addition of stores well into the recession and the low returns achieved by certain acquisitions, have led to a decline in our return on invested capital.
Our goal is simple. It is for Best Buy to thrive as
the
preferred authority and destination for technology products and services. I am excited to unveil today some of our ideas on how we will achieve this.
During the conference, Joly and members of Best Buy's management team will outline the five key priorities of the company's strategy - Renew Blue:
1
Joly will outline that Best Buy aspires to achieve over time an operating margin of five to six percent and a return on invested capital of 13 to15 percent. In the short term, the company's goal will be to stabilize and then begin increasing its comparable store sales and operating margin.
The presentations will begin at 1:00 p.m. ET and will be broadcast live via the internet on Best Buy's investor relations website (www.investors.bestbuy.com).
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements:
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as contained in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that reflect management's current views and estimates regarding future market conditions, company performance and financial results, business prospects, new strategies, the competitive environment and other events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they use words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, project, guidance, plan, outlook, and other words and terms of similar meaning. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. A list and description of these risks, uncertainties and other matters can be found in the company's
2
annual report and other reports filed from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Best Buy's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on May 1, 2012. Best Buy cautions that any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and Best Buy assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement that it may make.
 
About Best Buy
Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE: BBY) is the global leader in consumer electronics with more than 1,400 locations, $50 billion in annual revenue and the 11
th
largest retail website. Our nearly 170,000 employees are committed to helping deliver the technology solutions that provide value, enabling access to people, knowledge, ideas and fun - whether online, in-stores and via their mobile devices. Our competitive prices, vast assortment of products and services, highly knowledgeable staff and industry leading physical and digital assets make us the best value for consumers. To learn more about Best Buy, visit us at www.investors.bestbuy.com. Shop us at http://www.bestbuy.com/ or stop by one of our stores to touch, test and try the latest technology. Find us on Facebook at https://www.facebook.com/bestbuy and follow us on Twitter at @BestBuy.
Investor Contacts:
Bill Seymour, Vice President, Investor Relations
(612) 291-6122 or bill.seymour@bestbuy.com
Mollie O'Brien, Director, Investor Relations
(612) 291-7735 or mollie.obrien@bestbuy.com
Media Contact:
Amy von Walter, Senior Director, Public Relations
(612) 291-4490 or amy.vonwalter@bestbuy.com
 
# # #
3


