FILE:BBY/BBY-8K-20121009164012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
October 9, 2012
BEST BUY CO., INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code
(612) 291-1000
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
(b) (e) On October 9, 2012, Best Buy Co., Inc. (the registrant or "Best Buy") announced that it is initiating a Chief Financial Officer transition process. As part of that transition, the registrant and Mr. James L. Muehlbauer have agreed that his employment with Best Buy as Executive Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer will continue through the end of the registrant's 2013 fiscal year on February 3, 2013 (the separation date), unless earlier terminated by mutual agreement. In the event that Best Buy hires a new Chief Financial Officer before the separation date, Mr. Muehlbauer will step down as Chief Financial Officer, but will continue his employment with Best Buy through the separation date to facilitate a smooth and orderly transition. The registrant has commenced a search for Mr. Muehlbauer's successor as Chief Financial Officer and will make an announcement as soon as a successor is appointed.
In connection with his separation from Best Buy, Mr. Muehlbauer entered into a Confidential Employment Transition, Separation and General Release Agreement (the Separation Agreement) with the registrant, which includes, among other terms, the following provisions regarding amounts and other benefits due to Mr. Muehlbauer in conjunction with his separation:
In the event that Mr. Muehlbauer violates any provision of the Separation Agreement, Best Buy will be entitled to recover the lump-sum payment and to cancel any unexercised stock options.
Mr. Muehlbauer has agreed that he will not compete with Best Buy or solicit its employees, customers, suppliers and certain other persons on a world-wide basis for a period of one year following the separation date. The Separation Agreement also provides for a standard release of claims to be executed on the separation date.
A news release announcing the agreed separation of Mr. James L. Muehlbauer as Chief Financial Officer of Best Buy and the search for a successor Chief Financial Officer was issued on October 9, 2012, and is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders and its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and other publicly available information should be consulted for other important information about the registrant
.
(d) Exhibits.
The following Exhibit 99.1 is furnished as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
2
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
  
3

Exhibit 99.1
Best Buy Is Conducting Search for a New Chief Financial Officer
Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE: BBY) announced today that it is conducting a search for a new Chief Financial Officer. Jim Muehlbauer, executive vice president and current chief financial officer, will continue to support the company through the end of the 2013 fiscal year. Muehlbauer joined Best Buy in 2002.
Jim is leaving Best Buy after more than a decade with the company," said Hubert Joly, Best Buy's President and Chief Executive Officer. "We thank him for his many contributions and, of course, wish him well in the future. I have no doubt that whoever we chose to succeed Jim will have his high degree of integrity and passion for our business.
I've appreciated the opportunity to have served this organization over the past ten years and I look forward to supporting a smooth and orderly transition to my successor, said Muehlbauer.
About Best Buy Co., Inc.
Best Buy Co., Inc. (NYSE:BBY) is a leading multi-channel global retailer and developer of technology products and services. Every day our employees -167,000 strong - are committed to helping deliver the technology solutions that enable easy access to people, knowledge, ideas and fun. We are keenly aware of our role and impact on the world, and we are committed to developing and implementing business strategies that bring sustainable technology solutions to our consumers and communities. For additional information about Best Buy, visit http://www.investors.bestbuy.com
/
.
Media Contact:
Amy von Walter
(612) 291-4490
Amy.vonwalter@bestbuy.com


