FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20021028164230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 25, 2002 SYSCO CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 1-06544 74-1648137 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (281) 584-1390 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) -------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Item 5. Other Events. On October 25, 2002, Sysco Corporation ("SYSCO") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the first quarter ended September 28, 2002. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its Press Release dated October 25, 2002, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2002 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (a) Financial Statements. Not applicable. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information. Not applicable. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit Number Description -------------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release dated October 25, 2002 2
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. SYSCO CORPORATION Date: October 25, 2002 By: /s/ John K. Stubblefield, Jr. --------------------------------- Name: John K. Stubblefield, Jr. Title: Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration 3
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page - -------------- ----------- ---- 99.1 Press Release dated October 25, 2002 5 4 1551982v1

EXHIBIT 99.1 SYSCO Corporation NEWS RELEASE 1390 Enclave Parkway ------------ Houston, Texas 77077-2099 (281) 584-1390 FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: John Palizza Assistant Treasurer 281-584-1308 SYSCO'S FIRST QUARTER EPS RISE 16.7% ON SALES INCREASE OF 10.2% HOUSTON, October 25, 2002 -- SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY), North America's leading foodservice marketer and distributor, today announced results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2003 ended September 28, 2002. First Quarter Highlights: - ------------------------ o Diluted earnings per share rose 16.7% to $0.28 compared to $0.24 in the same period last year o Net earnings climbed 11.4% to $183 million vs. $164 million in last year's first quarter o Sales increased 10.2% to $6.4 billion vs. $5.8 billion in last year's first quarter o Real sales growth was 7.0% compared to last year's first quarter o Marketing associate-served sales as a percentage of traditional broadline sales increased to 57.2% from 56.2% o SYSCO Brand items accounted for 56.7% of marketing associate-served sales and 48.9% of all traditional broadline company sales Charles H. Cotros, SYSCO's chairman and chief executive officer, said, "The first quarter's accomplishments were a direct result of our commitment to supreme customer service and the unflagging dedication of our associates in a soft economic environment. Our exceptional performance was a testimony to our ability to maintain appropriate customer mix, focus on expense reduction and provide value-added products and services. "For the first time in the past eight quarters we achieved our stated long-term growth objective of high single-digit real sales growth. Real sales growth continued an upward trend, accelerating in the final weeks of the period to produce a solid 7.0 percent gain," he said. Mr. Cotros also noted that acquisitions contributed 5.4 percent to sales growth while food cost deflation, primarily in the categories of dairy, fresh and frozen meat, seafood and poultry, was 2.2 percent. "Our broadline operating companies generated good gross margin performance, which was slightly offset by the gross margins of the SERCA operations, which have a higher mix of multi-unit type accounts," added Mr. Cotros. "Coupled with the performance of our SYGMA and Other segments, overall gross profit margins increased 12 basis points for the quarter." - more - 5
Mr. Cotros concluded his remarks by noting that SYSCO's operating companies exhibited good expense control during the first quarter. Total expenses for the quarter increased as a percent to sales from the same quarter last year due to a $15.5 million expense required to reflect a decline in the value of the equity component of investments which are maintained to meet obligations for certain non-qualified retirement programs. Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's president and chief operating officer, also commented that The SYGMA Network, Inc., SYSCO's chain restaurant distribution subsidiary, generated $710 million in sales for the quarter, a gain of 9.1 percent compared against the same period last year, while the company's specialty meat, produce and hotel supply operations combined for $394 million in sales, a gain of 4.8 percent. "The performance of recent broadline fold-out companies in Las Vegas and Columbia, South Carolina is in line with our expectations, and just this week we began delivering products from our first-ever specialty meat company fold-out in Chicago," continued Mr. Schnieders. "In addition, the integration of the SERCA foodservice operations in Canada is going as planned, and our strategies of focusing on marketing associate-served customers and success in introducing SYSCO Branded products are generating positive results. "Our sales momentum has continued into the second quarter of fiscal 2003," Mr. Schnieders said. "We remain positioned to continue gaining market share while adding value to our employees, customers, shareholders and suppliers. SYSCO operates in an industry that is somewhat resilient to economic conditions, an industry that is supported by consumers' desire, and often necessity, to enjoy meals prepared away from home. By focusing on common goals we have again been able to provide value to our shareholders, customers and suppliers alike." SYSCO is the largest foodservice marketing and distribution organization in North America, providing food and related products and services to approximately 415,000 restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. SYSCO's operations are located throughout the United States and Canada and include broadline companies, specialty produce, meat and hotel supply operations and SYGMA, the company's chain restaurant distribution subsidiary. For more information about SYSCO visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding SYSCO's ability to continue to profitably grow its business, gain market share and achieve real sales growth.. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2002 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. - more - 6
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands Except for Share Data) The comparative segment sales data for the first quarter of fiscal years 2003 and 2002 are summarized below. - more - 7
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (In Thousands) - more - 8
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In Thousands) # # # 9


