FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20030428093154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 28, 2003 SYSCO CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 1-06544 74-1648137 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (281) 584-1390 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) -------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS. On April 28, 2003, Sysco Corporation ("SYSCO") issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the third quarter ended March 29, 2003. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its Press Release dated April 28, 2003, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The Press Release contains information regarding real sales growth, which may be a non-GAAP financial measure as defined in Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K. Management believes that presentation of real sales growth information is useful to investors as an indicator of the Company's organic growth without regard to inflation and acquisitions. This information, filed under Item 5, is also being provided pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K. Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2002 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (a) Financial Statements. Not applicable. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information. Not applicable. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit Number Description 99.1 Press Release dated April 28, 2003 ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE (INCLUDING ITEM 12 INFORMATION). Pursuant to the interim guidance contained in SEC Release 34-47583, the information set forth under Item 5 and required by Item 12 of this report is being furnished under this Item 9 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference. 2
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. SYSCO CORPORATION Date: April 28, 2003 By: /s/ John K. Stubblefield, Jr. -------------- --------------------------------- Name: John K. Stubblefield, Jr. Title: Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration 3
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page - -------------- ----------- ---- 99.1 Press Release dated April 28, 2003 5 4

EXHIBIT 99.1 SYSCO [LOGO] - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SYSCO Corporation NEWS RELEASE 1390 Enclave Parkway Houston, Texas 77077-2099 (281) 584-1390 FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: John M. Palizza Assistant Treasurer (281) 584-1308 SYSCO POSTS 13.0% EPS GAIN FOR THIRD QUARTER OF FISCAL 2003 HOUSTON, APRIL 28, 2003 -- SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY), North America's largest foodservice marketer and distributor, today announced results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2003 ended March 29, 2003. THIRD QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS: o Diluted earnings per share rose 13.0% to $0.26 compared to $0.23 in the same period last year o Net earnings increased 11.2% to $168.4 million vs. $151.4 million in last year's third quarter o Sales for the quarter grew 13.8% to $6.4 billion vs. $5.6 billion last year o Real sales growth for the third quarter was 5.7% o SYSCO Brand items, excluding Canadian operations, accounted for 56.3% of marketing associate-served sales compared to 55.7% last year o SYSCO Brand items, excluding Canadian operations, represented 48.2% of all traditional broadline company sales compared to 48.1% in last year's third quarter o Excluding Canadian operations, Marketing associate-served sales as a percentage of traditional broadline sales were 53.9% compared to 54.0% in the same period last year Commenting on the third quarter, Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman and chief executive officer, said, "I am proud of our entire family of 47,000 associates and the earnings they helped SYSCO achieve during a quarter marked by numerous challenges. The record snowfalls experienced across the East Coast and Colorado, and the harsh weather suffered in the midwestern states, made this one of the most difficult third quarters in recent history. In addition, the onset of war in Iraq, coupled with the slowdown in business and leisure travel that typically benefits foodservice operators, made for a very challenging operating environment for us throughout the quarter. "The third quarter was also unique due to the industry attention devoted to allegations concerning one of our competitors and the resulting distractions that it brought to the marketplace," Mr. Schnieders continued. "However, the -MORE- 5
professionalism of our associates and their dedication to our customers allowed SYSCO to achieve solid sales and earnings gains and record its 108th consecutive quarter of sales and earnings increases." Mr. Schnieders concluded his remarks by noting that SYSCO had an all-time record sales week in week 10 of the third quarter and also began its fourth fiscal quarter with another record sales week. "Sales for the first week of the fourth quarter were $536.4 million, 2.7 percent higher than the previous record," he said. "The solid sales gains achieved in March have carried into our final quarter." Sales for the quarter grew 13.8% to $6.4 billion from $5.6 billion in last year's third quarter. SYSCO's third quarter real sales growth of 5.7 percent, or total sales growth adjusted for 0.8 percent food cost inflation and 7.3 percent sales growth from acquisitions, represented a three percentage point improvement compared to the 2.7 percent real sales growth reported in the same period last year. Sales for the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2003 grew 12.5% to $19.2 billion from $17.0 billion for the first 39 weeks last year. Through the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2003, SYSCO's real sales increased 6.8 percent (total sales growth adjusted for 0.8 percent deflation and 6.5 percent sales growth from acquisitions) compared to 1.8 percent real sales growth during last year's first 39 weeks. Thomas E. Lankford, SYSCO's president and chief operating officer, said, "During the third quarter we were able to improve our operating efficiencies, reducing overall operating expenses as a percentage of sales by 10 basis points. This was primarily a result of our technology systems, especially the SYSCO Order Selector (SOS) and our delivery vehicle routing systems. The SOS unit has been very successful in reducing the occurrence of inaccurate orders, and with our routing systems mapping the most efficient delivery routes, we continue to post significant improvements in the performance areas most important to our customers as well as internal performance metrics, including pieces per stop, lines per stop, pieces per trip and pieces per mile. "During the third quarter," added Mr. Lankford, "we also continued our product and geographic expansion. Specifically, we signed a letter of intent to acquire the meat cutting division and certain broadline assets from the Colorado Boxed Beef Company (Auburndale, FL), a deal that was completed last week. During the last quarter we also announced an agreement to acquire Reed Distributors (Lewiston, ME), a paper and chemical distribution company to the foodservice industry, and that acquisition should be completed in early May. Mr. Lankford also stated that the construction of SYSCO's Northeast Redistribution Center and the fulfillment of all associated staffing and networking needs are progressing according to plan. Located near Front Royal, Virginia, SYSCO's Northeast Redistribution Center is expected to be operational in the summer of 2004 and will receive and redistribute food and food-related products to 14 SYSCO operating companies in the Northeast. Total cash expended for the National Supply Chain project has been $59.6 million since the initiative began in fiscal 2002. Of that figure, $29.6 million has been expensed and the remainder has been capitalized. During the recently completed quarter, expenses for the project amounted to $4.5 million for a cumulative $14 million during fiscal year 2003. When the Northeast Redistribution Center is completed and operational, total cash expenditures for this phase of the National Supply Chain project are expected to be between $275 million and $325 million, which includes developmental costs and information technology systems which will -MORE- 6
benefit a nationwide rollout. Approximately 75 percent of this amount is capitalizable. Capitalized costs for any future redistribution center in other regions are expected to range between $65 million and $75 million. "SYSCO is uniquely positioned, in terms of our financial strength, our national presence and our supply chain expertise and proficiencies, to successfully undertake this initiative," Mr. Lankford continued. "Once the facility is operational, we expect to begin achieving significant reductions in inventory at the local operating companies as we transition product flow and safety stock to the redistribution center. The redistribution center will also free capacity at our operating companies throughout the region, postponing investments in warehouse expansion. "Our expansion efforts and growth strategies have proven to be sound and successful," concluded Mr. Lankford. "SYSCO is positioned for continued growth as we help our customers succeed in the $200 billion industry we serve." SYSCO is the largest foodservice marketing and distribution organization in North America, generating sales of $24.7 billion for calendar year 2002. The company's 147 distribution locations in the United States and Canada provide food and related products and services to approximately 415,000 restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. For more information about SYSCO visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding SYSCO's ability to continue to grow its business, control or reduce expenses and increase operating efficiencies, and statements regarding the timing, cost and expected benefits of the Northeast Redistribution Center and the national supply chain project. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; risks relating to the successful completion of acquisitions and fold-outs and integration of acquired companies; risks and uncertainties relating to the successful completion of the Northeast Redistribution Center; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2002 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. -MORE- 7
-MORE- 8
-MORE- 9
-MORE- 10
# # # 11


