FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20040126092754.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 26, 2004 SYSCO CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (281) 584-1390 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) -------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (a) Financial Statements. Not applicable. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information. Not applicable. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit Number Description -------------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release dated January 26, 2004 ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The information provided pursuant to this Item 12 is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") and incorporated by reference in those filings of Sysco Corporation ("SYSCO") that provide for the incorporation of all reports and documents filed by SYSCO under the Exchange Act. On January 26, 2004, SYSCO issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the second quarter ended December 27, 2003 of its fiscal year ending July 3, 2004. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its Press Release dated January 26, 2004, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 2
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. SYSCO CORPORATION Date: January 26, 2004 By: /s/ John K. Stubblefield, Jr. ------------------------------ Name: John K. Stubblefield, Jr. Title:Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration 3
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page - -------------- ----------- ---- 99.1 Press Release dated January 26, 2004 5 4

EXHIBIT 99.1 SYSCO [COMPANY LOGO] - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SYSCO Corporation 1390 Enclave Parkway NEWS RELEASE Houston, Texas 77077-2099 (281) 584-1390 FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: John M. Palizza Assistant Treasurer (281) 584-1308 SYSCO'S SECOND QUARTER DILUTED EPS INCREASE 21.4%, NET EARNINGS RISE 20.3% HOUSTON, JANUARY 26, 2004 -- SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY), North America's leading foodservice marketer and distributor, today announced results for the second quarter of its fiscal year 2004. SECOND QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS: - ------------------------- o Diluted earnings per share rose 21.4% to $0.34 compared to $0.28 in the same period last year o Net earnings climbed 20.3% to $222.0 million vs. $184.6 million in last year's second quarter o Sales increased 10.8% to $7.0 billion vs. $6.3 billion in last year's second quarter o Operating expenses as a percent to sales improved to 14.17% compared to last year's 14.76% Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman and chief executive officer, said, "The solid sales and strong net earnings performance during the quarter was a direct result of our 47,400 associates and their daily commitment to helping our customers succeed. Our strategies, skills and products allowed us to increase market share and record a sales growth rate of 10.8 percent." Sales from acquisitions contributed 0.8 percentage points to the second quarter sales increase compared to 6.8 percentage points in last year's second fiscal quarter. Mr. Schnieders noted that SYSCO's internally measured food cost inflation for the quarter was 7.3 percent primarily due to price increases in the meat, dairy, and poultry categories. This compares to 0.9 percent food cost deflation during the prior year's second fiscal quarter. "This marked our third consecutive quarter of increasing food costs," Mr. Schnieders noted, "and we experienced food cost deflation for three consecutive quarters prior to that. I am optimistic that the inflationary spike will be tempered somewhat as we go forward, and that food cost trends will return to more stable levels. "For the fifth consecutive quarter we leveraged operating expenses as a percent to sales to generate increased operating income," Mr. Schnieders continued. "Our operating expenses as a percent to sales declined 59 basis points in the second quarter primarily as a result of the knowledge and other benefits that our technology systems continue to provide and our efforts to share best business practices at all 145 SYSCO distribution facilities. In addition, our fixed costs during the quarter were not impacted by inflation, which also contributed to our reduced operating expenses as a percent to sales. "That excellent expense control more than offset a 28 basis point decline in our gross margins during the quarter, which was expected and can be principally attributed to two factors. The first was a change in our customer mix - specifically the growth of multi-unit business during the second quarter. In addition, gross margins were impacted by the inflation effects of the increased sales of our meat products during the quarter." Mr. Schnieders added that sales at The SYGMA Network, Inc., the company's chain restaurant distribution specialist, increased 21.6 percent in the second quarter to $863.5 million. SYSCO's other specialty operations, including custom-cut meat, produce, hotel supply and Asian foodservice, combined for sales of $571.9 million, a 20.2% gain over the prior year's second fiscal quarter. - more - 5
Thomas E. Lankford, SYSCO's president and chief operating officer, added, "Our operating companies continued to record significant gains in key productivity performance metrics during the second quarter. These results, in areas including pieces per stop, lines per stop, pieces per error and overtime costs, contributed to our strong earnings gains in the quarter and also were beneficial in the expense control efforts. We firmly believe that our people and our systems are the best in the industry and together they continue to enhance shareholder value. "With the recent implementation of the new business development manager position, our operating companies have done a great job of cultivating new customer relationships with foodservice operators that have good potential for future profitability," Mr. Lankford continued. He also noted that sales, profitability and expense reduction efforts all were positively impacted as operating companies continued to work with unprofitable customers to develop strategies to bring them to profitability, adding that in certain cases, this effort resulted in SYSCO exiting some accounts. Mr. Lankford also commented on the Company's internal growth efforts, including an announcement that a fold-out distribution facility would be constructed in Post Falls, Idaho that is expected to be operational in 2005 and previously announced fold-out companies in Fargo, North Dakota and Oxnard, California, are progressing according to plan. "Strategic investment in our business remains a fundamental component to our internal and external growth initiatives," continued Mr. Lankford. "Accordingly, capital expenditures for the second quarter totaled $145.6 million, or a six month total of $248.7 million, and we continue to project capital expenditures of approximately $490 million for the fiscal year. SYSCO's National Supply Chain project progressed according to plan during the quarter and to date $154.3 million has been expended on the project since it began in fiscal 2002." Mr. Lankford also added that second quarter expenditures for the Northeast Redistribution Center, which is expected to begin operations in the fall of 2004, were $41.7 million, $33.3 million of which was capitalized. "Our performance in the second quarter provided further proof that our growth strategies are fundamentally sound and successful," concluded Mr. Lankford. "We believe that SYSCO continues to grow sales and earnings at a rate above the industry average and we remain confident that we will continue to increase our market share from its current 13 percent level." SYSCO is the largest foodservice marketing and distribution organization in North America, providing food and related products and services to approximately 420,000 restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. The company generated sales of $27.5 billion for calendar year 2003. SYSCO's operations are located throughout the United States and Canada and include broadline companies, specialty produce and custom-cut meat operations, Asian foodservice and hotel supply operations and SYGMA, the company's chain restaurant distribution subsidiary. For more information about SYSCO visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com. As previously announced, SYSCO's second quarter 2004 earnings conference call will be held at 10:00 a.m. eastern time on Monday, January 26, 2004. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com under Investor Relations. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding SYSCO's ability to continue to profitably grow its business, improve its operational efficiencies and performance and gain market share, as well as statements regarding inflationary trends, capital expenditures and the expected timing, cost and benefits of fold-outs, its national supply chain project and northeast redistribution center. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. - more - 6
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands Except for Share Data) - more - 7
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands Except for Share Data) - more - 8
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (In Thousands) - more - 9
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In Thousands) -more- 10
COMPARATIVE SUPPLEMENTAL STATISTICAL INFORMATION RELATED TO SALES Comparative SYSCO Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data for the second quarter of fiscal years 2004 and 2003 is summarized below. Comparative SYSCO Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data for the first half of fiscal years 2004 and 2003 is summarized below. # # # 11


