FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20040426083002.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 26, 2004 SYSCO CORPORATION ----------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware -------- (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 1-06544 74-1648137 ------- ---------- (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099 ----------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (281) 584-1390 -------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) -------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (a) Financial Statements. Not applicable. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information. Not applicable. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit Number Description -------------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release dated April 26, 2004 ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The information provided pursuant to this Item 12 is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") and incorporated by reference in those filings of Sysco Corporation ("SYSCO") that provide for the incorporation of all reports and documents filed by SYSCO under the Exchange Act. On April 26, 2004, SYSCO issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the third quarter ended March 27, 2004 of its fiscal year ending July 3, 2004. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its Press Release dated April 26, 2004, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. -2-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. SYSCO CORPORATION Date: April 26, 2004 By: /s/ John K. Stubblefield, Jr. -------------- ------------------------------------ Name: John K. Stubblefield, Jr. Title: Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration -3-
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page -------------- ----------- ---- 99.1 Press Release dated April 26, 2004 5 -4-

EXHIBIT 99.1 SYSCO [LOGO] - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SYSCO Corporation NEWS RELEASE 1390 Enclave Parkway Houston, Texas 77077-2099 FOR MORE INFORMATION (281)584-1390 CONTACT: John M. Palizza Assistant Treasurer (281) 584-1308 SYSCO'S THIRD QUARTER NET EARNINGS INCREASE 16.3%, DILUTED EPS RISE 15.4% HOUSTON, APRIL 26, 2004 -- SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY), North America's leading foodservice marketer and distributor, today announced results for the third quarter of its fiscal year 2004 that ended March 27, 2004. THIRD QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS: o Net earnings climbed 16.3% to $195.8 million vs. $168.4 million in last year's third quarter o Diluted earnings per share rose 15.4% to $0.30 compared to $0.26 in the same period last year o Sales increased 9.9% to $7.0 billion vs. $6.4 billion in the third quarter of fiscal 2003 o Operating expenses as a percent to sales declined 70 basis points, or to 14.35% compared to 15.05% in the same period last year Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman and chief executive officer, said, "I am extremely proud of the way our associates performed during the third quarter. They quite literally weathered the storm and in the process helped our customers do the same. Our sales and earnings performance was exceptional in a quarter which historically has been a soft period and which this year was marked by eight weeks of severe winter weather in a number of markets. The continued implementation of business development and business relationship strategies, the sharing of best business practices, and our expense reduction efforts all contributed to the strong third quarter results. "Another equally encouraging sign was that the sales momentum our companies exhibited in the final weeks of the third quarter continued as we began the fourth quarter," continued Mr. Schnieders. "In fact, the fourth quarter opened with record sales of $583.4 million for the week ended April 3, 2004 and we are very encouraged about our fourth quarter pportunities." "The uncharacteristically high food cost inflation we have experienced in the last 12 months is slowly declining, although during the quarter inflation continued to impact many of our product categories, including dairy, canned and dry goods, fresh and frozen meats, poultry and produce." Mr. Schnieders added that acquisitions contributed 0.4 percent to the overall sales growth of 9.9 percent in the quarter while food cost inflation for the quarter was 5.2 percent. During the same period last year acquisitions represented 7.3 percent of sales growth and food cost inflation was 0.8 percent. "During the quarter we continued appointing sales management personnel to the newly created positions of either business development manager or business relationship manager," concluded Mr. Schnieders. "The individuals charged with business development assist marketing associates in cultivating new customer relationships, while the business relationship managers team with marketing associates to strengthen the partnerships they already have with existing customers. We are encouraged by the early success of this program and believe the additional focus it provides will be very beneficial to our customers." - more - -5-
Thomas E. Lankford, SYSCO's president and chief operating officer, said, "Our operating companies once again did an exceptional job in controlling expenses, which as a percent to sales declined 70 basis points in the quarter. Two key components contributed to this performance. First, by increasing pieces per stop and pieces per trip, our delivery vehicles were more efficiently utilized and our delivery costs were reduced. Secondly, the activity based compensation (ABC) programs for delivery associates enhanced productivity and performance in the quarter. In doing so, the ABC program provided an opportunity for our associates to earn more while minimizing overtime costs." Mr. Lankford also stated that the company's Fargo, North Dakota broadline fold-out was completed and began distributing products during the third quarter and that fold-out facilities in Post Falls, Idaho and Oxnard, California, are progressing according to plan. SYSCO also announced the acquisition of Overton Distributors, Inc., a produce distribution company with locations in Raleigh and Charlotte, North Carolina and Nashville, Tennessee. That acquisition was completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. "Capital expenditures have totaled $379 million for the three quarters of the fiscal year, of which $131 million was spent in the third quarter," Mr. Lankford continued. "The National Supply Chain project continued to progress according to plan during the quarter and to date $183 million has been expended on the project since it began in fiscal 2002." Mr. Lankford added that third quarter expenditures for the Northeast Redistribution Center were $28 million, $25 million of which was capitalized. The Company expects total capital expenditures for the year to be approximately $500 million. SYSCO is the largest foodservice marketing and distribution organization in North America, providing food and related products and services to approximately 420,000 restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. The company generated sales of $27.5 billion for calendar year 2003. SYSCO's operations are located throughout the United States and Canada and include broadline companies, specialty produce and custom-cut meat operations, Asian foodservice and hotel supply operations and SYGMA, the company's chain restaurant distribution subsidiary. For more information about SYSCO visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com. As previously announced, SYSCO's third quarter 2004 earnings conference call will be held at 10:00 a.m. eastern time on Monday, April 26, 2004. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com under Investor Relations. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding SYSCO's fourth quarter opportunities and the expected impact of sales management strategies and the ABC program, as well as statements regarding inflationary trends, capital expenditures and the expected timing, cost and benefits of fold-outs, its national supply chain project and northeast redistribution center. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2003 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. - more - -6-
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands Except for Share Data) - more - -7-
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands Except for Share Data) - more - -8-
-9-
SYSCO CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In Thousands) - more - -10-
# # # -11-


