FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20051031090920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 31, 2005 SYSCO CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) 1-06544 74-1648137 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (281) 584-1390 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) -------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [_] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [_] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14A-12) [_] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [_] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The information provided pursuant to this Item 2.02 is to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") and incorporated by reference in those filings of Sysco Corporation ("SYSCO") that provide for the incorporation of all reports and documents filed by SYSCO under the Exchange Act. On October 31, 2005, SYSCO issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the first quarter ended October 1, 2005 of the fiscal year ending July 1, 2006. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its Press Release dated October 31, 2005, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired. Not applicable. (b) Pro Forma Financial Information. Not applicable. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit Number Description -------------- ----------- 99.1* Press Release dated October 31, 2005 * This exhibit is filed, not furnished. 2
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. SYSCO CORPORATION Date: October 31, 2005 By: /s/ John K. Stubblefield, Jr. ---------------- ---------------------------------- Name: John K. Stubblefield, Jr. Title: Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer 3
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description Page - -------------- ----------- ---- 99.1* Press Release dated October 31, 2005 5 * This exhibit is filed, not furnished. 4

EXHIBIT 99.1 SYSCO [COMPANY LOGO] - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- SYSCO Corporation NEWS RELEASE 1390 Enclave Parkway Houston, Texas 77077-2099 (281) 584-1390 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: John M. Palizza Assistant Treasurer (281) 584-1308 SYSCO POSTS FIRST QUARTER DILUTED EPS OF $0.33 AFTER ACCOUNTING CHANGE AND EXPENSING $0.05 FOR SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION HOUSTON, OCTOBER 31, 2005 -- SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY), North America's leading foodservice marketer and distributor, today announced sales and earnings results for the 13-week first quarter of fiscal year 2006 that ended October 1, 2005. FIRST QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS: o Sales increased 6.3% to $8.0 billion from $7.5 billion in last year's first quarter. o Net earnings before the cumulative effect of an accounting change were $199.2 million vs. $225.9 million in last year's first quarter. Net earnings after the cumulative effect of an accounting change were $208.5 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The accounting change is the result of SYSCO changing its measurement date for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (from fiscal year end to May 31) to accommodate accelerated SEC filing deadlines. o Diluted earnings per share before the cumulative effect of an accounting change were $0.31 compared to $0.35 in last year's first quarter. Diluted EPS after the cumulative effect of an accounting change were $0.33. o All EPS data for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 includes a net expense of $0.05 for incremental share-based compensation (primarily options expensing). Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman, chief executive officer and president, said, "The growth initiatives implemented during our last fiscal year resulted in sales continuing to strengthen throughout the first fiscal quarter and we've seen similar progress in the first few weeks of the second quarter. Continued emphasis on Business Review and Development processes, as well as additions to our customer contact personnel, contributed to the quarter's strong 6.3 percent sales growth and increases in customers and market share. "We are encouraged about the resiliency of the foodservice industry, especially considering the difficulties it has endured from increased fuel costs and the disruptive effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. New Orleans, Houston and the Gulf Coast are strong foodservice markets for SYSCO and I'm proud of the way our associates have responded to the personal and business challenges that they encountered during the quarter." SYSCO's sales gains in the quarter were accomplished without the benefit of food cost inflation during the quarter. Inflation, as measured by SYSCO's cost of goods, was 0.4% in the quarter compared to 5.9% in last year's first 13 weeks. The declining food cost inflation also contributed to better gross profit margin performance as the company experienced its smallest decline in gross profit margins in the past 12 fiscal quarters. Non-comparable acquisitions represented 1.2% of sales in the quarter. SYSCO's operating expenses as a percent of sales increased during the quarter principally due to the expensing of share-based compensation; escalating fuel costs; higher pension costs; extra expenses incurred to serve existing customers as well as some competitors' customers who were affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita; and the ongoing investment in SYSCO's National Supply Chain Project. - more -
In the first quarter of fiscal 2006 SYSCO adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, utilizing the modified-prospective transition method under which prior period results have not been restated. The results for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 include incremental share-based compensation cost of $35.5 million ($31.7 million after tax), or $0.05 per share. The company currently estimates that expensing for share-based payments for fiscal year 2006 will now be approximately $90 million to $110 million after tax, or between $0.14 and $0.17 per share. For the first 13 weeks fuel costs increased $15.0 million, or 50.0%, compared to the same period last year, or approximately $0.015 per share. Higher pension costs also added $6.0 million of expense to the quarter, adding another half-cent impact to EPS and net costs related to the National Supply Chain Project had an impact of approximately $0.01 to the first quarter's EPS results. "The RDC is currently shipping about 850,000 cases a week to all 14 operating companies in the Northeast Region," Mr. Schnieders continued, "which is about fifty percent of our planned volume. At current volume levels we have identified a number of operational changes that will make the RDC more efficient and, as a consequence, we plan to hold case volumes constant during the second quarter while we implement the changes. Our previous estimate for the financial impact of the RDC was predicated on projections that the RDC would achieve full volumes in January 2006. We now estimate that full ramp-up of case volume will be reached by the end of fiscal year 2006 and, consequently, previous estimates regarding the financial impact of the RDC and National Supply Chain initiative of being a half-cent accretive to flat in fiscal 2006 will not be achieved. However, we remain confident that the long-term benefits of the project will continue to be achieved." Mr. Schnieders also noted that the design phase of the second RDC, which will be located in Alachua, Florida, is scheduled to be completed in December, 2005 and the company also expects to announce a site selection for its third RDC that same month. Capital expenditures were $94.2 million in first quarter, including continued construction of two fold-out operations that will service the Raleigh, North Carolina and Gulf Coast Alabama markets and construction of replacement facilities in Lincoln, Illinois and Denver, Colorado. SYSCO is the largest foodservice marketing and distribution organization in North America, providing food and related products and services to approximately 390,000 restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. SYSCO's operations are located throughout the United States and Canada and include broadline companies, specialty produce and custom-cut meat operations, Asian foodservice distributors, hotel supply operations and chain restaurant distribution subsidiaries. As previously announced, SYSCO's first quarter fiscal 2006 earnings conference call will be held at 10:00 a.m. EDT on Monday, October 31, 2005. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com under Investor Relations. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding capital expenditures; sales growth; the impact of option expensing; SYSCO's ability to increase sales, improve operating efficiencies, control expenses and execute growth strategies; and the expected timing and benefits of the national supply chain project and regional redistribution centers, including the Northeast RDC. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to SYSCO's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and consumer spending; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. The expected impact of option expensing is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. The actual impact of option expensing could vary significantly to the extent actual results vary significantly from assumptions. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. - more -
- more -
- more -
- more -
# # #


