FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20060501073023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14A-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On May 1, 2006, SYSCO Corporation ("SYSCO") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter ended April 1, 2006 of the fiscal year ending July 1, 2006. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its Press Release dated May 1, 2006, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by SYSCO under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced sales and earnings results for the 13-week third quarter of fiscal year 2006 that ended April 1, 2006.
HOUSTON, May 1, 2006 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2006 Highlights:
39 Weeks of Fiscal 2006 Highlights:
     Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman, chief executive officer and president, commented, "We continued to build on the top line momentum from our second quarter and the result was a solid 9.4 percent sales gain. The overall sales growth was aided by our Business Review efforts, which touched approximately 10,700 customers during the quarter, as well as rapid sales growth at our specialty companies. The top line sales strength also continued into the fourth fiscal quarter, which began with record sales of $676.1 million for the week ended April 8. That was our first record sales week not related to Mother's Day since April 2004."
     Mr. Schnieders added that during the third quarter the company continued to experience expense pressures, most notably fuel and share-based compensation expenses. In addition, during last year's third quarter SYSCO benefited from the reversal of an $11.0 million accrual for an income tax contingency, making this year's third quarter comparison even more difficult.
     "Throughout the past 39 weeks our operating companies have done a terrific job in the face of challenging expense pressures," Mr. Schnieders continued. "We expect our fourth quarter will also contain similar headwinds. After that, however, those pressures should lessen, if not disappear, as we anniversary the many added expense items we've encountered this year. By remaining focused on our proven and successful strategies to drive sales growth, market share gains and earnings, SYSCO is positioned for strong and sustainable growth."
Sales:
     The quarter's 9.4 percent sales growth includes sales from non-comparable acquisitions (less than 12 months) of 1.4 percent. Third quarter sales growth also includes inflation, as measured by the change in SYSCO's cost of goods, of 2.0 percent. The Business Review process continued to generate at least mid-teens percentage sales increases in all U.S. regions. SYSCO's operating companies continued adding to its arsenal of Customer Contact professionals during the quarter and, fiscal year-to-date, have increased Customer Contact staffing by approximately 5.0%.
 
Gross Profit Margins:
     Gross profit margins decreased 2 basis points in the third quarter to 18.87 percent compared to 18.89 percent in last year's third quarter. Marketing associate-served sales (sales to SYSCO's core business of independent restaurants) were 52.9 percent of U.S. broadline sales in the quarter versus 52.7 percent last year.
Expenses:
     Operating expenses as a percent to sales were 14.66 percent during the third quarter compared to 14.15 percent in the same quarter a year ago. Expense items in the third quarter that were in excess of last year's third quarter expenses included fuel costs and pension expense, which increased $10.5 million and $5.9 million, respectively. Incremental share-based compensation expense of $26.1 million was also included in this year's third quarter, but was not required nor included in the results from last year's third quarter. In addition, costs for the National Supply Chain project, net of benefits, were $11.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2006.
Capital Spending:
     Capital expenditures during the quarter were $131.6 million. Through the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2006, capital expenditures were $364.4 million. The company continues to project capital expenditures to be in a range of $425 million to $450 million for fiscal 2006.
Other Recent Developments:
     SYSCO's Northeast Redistribution Center (RDC) began receiving new items from existing suppliers during the quarter. During the fourth quarter the products from additional suppliers will be transitioned into the facility and case volumes will continue to modestly increase. A majority of projected weekly case volume will flow through the facility by the end of the fourth fiscal quarter.
     In February the company announced the purchase of land for construction of a third RDC in Hamlet, Indiana. That facility is expected to be operational approximately 18 months after construction commences.
     Construction of a Raleigh, North Carolina fold-out operation continues to progress according to plan and is expected to be operational by the end of fiscal 2006. In March the company also announced that it plans to open a broadline fold-out operation in Knoxville, Tennessee, which is expected to begin shipping product approximately 18 months after construction commences.
     In February SYSCO acquired Desert Meats, the largest independent specialty meat supplier in Las Vegas, Nevada with calendar year 2005 sales of approximately $55 million.
     SYSCO's FreshPoint subsidiary completed two acquisitions  City Produce and Thomas Brothers Produce  during the third quarter. City Produce operates from four Texas locations and Thomas Brothers Produce supplies customers from two Oklahoma facilities and an operation in Arkansas, further expanding the scope of SYSCO's specialty produce operations.
Conference Call & Webcast:
     As previously announced, SYSCO's third quarter fiscal 2006 earnings conference call will be held at 10:00 a.m. EST on Monday, May 1, 2006. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About SYSCO:
     SYSCO is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. For the fiscal year 2005 that ended July 2, 2005, the company generated $30.3 billion in sales. For more information about SYSCO visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding atypical costs becoming more comparable; future capital expenditures; the potential for future success; expense trends; the ability to achieve growth in sales, market share and earnings; and the expected timing and benefits of the national supply chain project and regional redistribution centers. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to SYSCO's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and consumer spending; increased fuel costs; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and others factors. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Comparative segment sales data:
 
Comparative segment sales data:
 
 
 


