FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20061030090053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 30, 2006, SYSCO Corporation ("SYSCO") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter ended September 30, 2006 of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated October 30, 2006 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by SYSCO under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced sales and earnings results for its 13-week first quarter that ended September 30, 2006.
HOUSTON, October 30, 2006 
First Quarter Fiscal 2007 Highlights:
     Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman, chief executive officer and president, commented, "Our company continued to gain market share by growing sales at a faster pace than the industry. In addition, we leveraged our operating expenses during the quarter and generated sound earnings growth and cash flow. Our growth initiatives, including business reviews and increasing the number of our customer contact professionals, remain competitive advantages and continue to produce positive results. This was a very positive quarter and we believe it sets the foundation for the remainder of fiscal 2007."
Sales:
     Sales growth for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 was 8.3%. The impact of EITF 04-13 reduced first quarter 2007 sales growth by 1.1 percent, or $91.5 million. Sales from non-comparable acquisitions (less than 12 months) contributed 1.0 percent to the first quarter's sales growth. Food cost inflation, as measured by the change in SYSCO's cost of goods, was 2.4 percent.
     During the first quarter more than 11,000 business reviews were performed at SYSCO's U.S. broadline operations. Sales to customers that participated in the review process continued to increase, on average, in the mid-teens range. SYSCO's staff of customer contact professionals increased by approximately one percent during the first quarter.
Gross Profit Margins:
     Gross profit margins increased 15 basis points in the first quarter to 19.25 percent compared to 19.10 percent in last year's first quarter, including a 20 basis point benefit due to the impact of EITF 04-13. The slight reduction in margins during the quarter was attributable to a shift in sales mix as some lower margin segments grew faster than the broadline segment.
Expenses:
     Operating expenses as a percent of sales were 14.74 percent during the first quarter compared to 14.69 percent in the same quarter last year. The impact of EITF 04-13 increased first quarter 2007 expenses as a percent of sales by 15 basis points due to the reduction of $91.5 million in reported sales. Fuel costs increased $9.0 million in the quarter. That expense was offset by lower expenses for pension and share-based compensation, which were $14.0 million and $11.7 million, respectively, below last year.
 
Capital Spending & Other Recent Developments:
     Capital expenditures during the quarter were $115.9 million, primarily for growth investments in facility replacements and expansions, construction of fold-out operations and additions to fleet.
     During the first quarter SYSCO received its construction permit and has begun land work for construction of its second redistribution center in Alachua, Florida. That facility is currently expected to be operational in the third quarter of fiscal 2008.
     SYSCO's broadline fold-out operation in Raleigh, North Carolina  the company's sixteenth broadline fold-out to open since 1995  began distributing product to customers during the first quarter of fiscal 2007. The Knoxville, Tennessee broadline fold-out that was announced in March 2006 continues to progress according to plan and is expected to be operational in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. On August 7, SYSCO also announced plans to construct a broadline fold-out in Longview, Texas to service customers throughout east Texas and portions of Arkansas and Louisiana.
     One acquisition  the purchase of certain foodservice assets of Bunn Capitol Company in Springfield, Illinois  was completed in the first quarter.
Overview of FASB Staff Position No. FTB 85-4-1 "Accounting for Life Settlement Contracts by Third Party Investors":
     SYSCO has corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policies on key individuals that are used to fund obligations under non-qualified executive retirement plans. Previously, accounting for these policies required that they be carried at fair value and any gain or loss be recognized each quarter in earnings. The FASB now allows companies to account for its investments using either the investment method or the fair value method. SYSCO has begun accounting for these life insurance policies under the investment method beginning this fiscal year. In doing so, the company recorded a cumulative change in accounting adjustment of a loss of $39.7 million. This represents the reversal of the cumulative amount of gains recorded in years prior to 2007 on existing agreements. On a prospective basis, by accounting for these polices under the investment method, SYSCO will no longer be recording a gain or a loss due to the change in the fair market value of these policies.
Overview of Last Year's 1Q06 Accounting Change:
     Net earnings for last year's first fiscal quarter included a gain of $9.3 million. The prior year's accounting change was the result of SYSCO changing its measurement date for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (from fiscal year end to May 31) to accommodate accelerated SEC filing deadlines.
Conference Call & Webcast:
     As previously announced, SYSCO's first quarter fiscal 2007 earnings conference call will be held at 10:00 a.m. EDT on Monday, October 30, 2006. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About SYSCO:
     SYSCO is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. For the fiscal year 2006 that ended July 1, 2006, the company generated $32.6 billion in sales. For more information about SYSCO visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.
     
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding continued competitive advantages and positive results from growth initiatives; the potential for future success in fiscal 2007; the ability to achieve growth in sales and market share. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to SYSCO's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and consumer spending; increased fuel costs; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price or operating results; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 1, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Comparative segment sales data: (Unaudited) ($000)
 
 
 
Comparative SYSCO Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.


