FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20071105073116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On November 5, 2007, SYSCO Corporation ("SYSCO") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter ended September 29, 2007 of the fiscal year ending June 28, 2008. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated November 5, 2007 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by SYSCO under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week first quarter of fiscal 2008 ended September 29, 2007.
HOUSTON, November 5, 2007 
First Quarter Fiscal 2008 Highlights
     "We started the year with a solid quarter," said Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman and chief executive officer. "Sales growth was in line with our expectations and we're pleased to have leveraged it into 16% EPS growth."
Sales
     Sales for the first quarter grew 8.5% over the same period last year. Sales from acquisitions (less than 12 months) contributed 0.2% to the quarter's sales growth. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the change in SYSCO's cost of goods, was 5.9% for the quarter.
Operating Income
     Operating income grew 15.9% year over year, increasing from 4.52% of sales to 4.83%. Gross profit dollars increased 7.3% while operating expense growth was limited to 4.7% for the period, in part, due to the ongoing implementation of effective cost control measures. As noted above, the prevailing market environment was characterized by unusually high food cost inflation for the second consecutive quarter. These conditions contributed to a 21 basis point reduction in gross margins and a 51 basis point decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of sales from the same period last year.
     Operating expenses for the first quarter were favorably impacted by a $16.3 million reduction in share-based compensation expense as a result of moving the incentive stock option grant date from the first quarter to the second quarter. The company expects that this benefit will partially reverse and result in comparatively higher share-based compensation expense in the second quarter. Conversely, first quarter results were negatively impacted by a $9.4 million charge for an anticipated accelerated future contribution to one of the company's multi-employer pension plans.
     "We are pleased with this quarter's results," said Ken Spitler, SYSCO's President and Chief Operating Officer. "We are on the right track with our initiatives and plan to remain focused on driving profitable growth."
Capital Spending
     Capital expenditures totaled $131.5 million for the first quarter. The primary areas for investments included facility replacements and expansions, construction of fold-out operations, additions to SYSCO's fleet and the new redistribution center in Alachua, FL.
     For the full fiscal year 2008, the company continues to project that capital expenditures will be in the range of $625 million to $650 million.
 
Conference Call & Webcast
     SYSCO's first quarter 2008 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, November 5, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. EST. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About SYSCO
     SYSCO is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers that prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. For the fiscal year 2007, the company generated over $35 billion in sales. For more information about SYSCO visit www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding future growth; and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to SYSCO's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and consumer spending; increased fuel costs; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price, operating results or debt ratio or significantly increase the Company's liquidity requirements; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including those described above. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended June 30, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Comparative segment sales data.
 
 
 
Comparative SYSCO Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.


