FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20070509130140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 1.02 TERMINATION OF A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
Termination of Executive Severance Agreement
That certain Executive Severance Agreement dated August 18, 2004, as amended on September 3, 2004, between the Company and Larry J. Accardi, currently the Companys Executive Vice President, Contract Sales and President, Specialty Distribution Companies,
will terminate
pursuant to
the
Transition and Early Retirement Agreement, described below
, effective as the eighth day after the execution of the Transition and Early Retirement Agreement by Mr. Accardi, unless Mr. Accardi rescinds the Transition and Early Retirement Agreement before that time
.
Pursuant to the terms of the Executive Severance Agreement, if Mr. Accardis employment had been terminated by reason of death or permanent disability, by the Company for cause, or by him without good reason, he would have been entitled to receive a payment equal to his:
If Mr. Accardi resigned as an employee without good reason, as defined in the Executive Severance Agreement, prior to reaching age 60, he would have forfeited all benefits under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP), notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the SERP.
If Mr. Accardis employment had been terminated by the Company without cause, or by him for good reason (as those terms are defined in the Executive Severance Agreement), and Mr. Accardi had signed a release as set forth in the Executive Severance Agreement, he would have been entitled to receive:
If Mr. Accardi had elected to not sign the release provided for in the Executive Severance Agreement, he would have only been entitled to the benefits listed in the first through fourth bullets set forth above.
Mr. Accardis Executive Severance Agreement also provided that if he incurred excise tax due to the application of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 regarding golden parachute payments, he would have been entitled to an additional cash payment so that he would have been in the same after-tax position as if the excise tax were not applicable.
Mr. Accardis Executive Severance Agreement prohibited him from competing with the Company or directly or indirectly soliciting customers or employees for a period of two years after termination. The Executive Severance Agreement also required him to release any claims against SYSCO and its affiliates.
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
Retirement Arrangements with Larry J. Accardi
In a
Form 8-K filed
by the Company
on February 23, 2007, SYSCO announced that Larry J. Accardi, currently the Companys Executive Vice President, Contract Sales and President, Specialty Distribution Companies, would become SYSCOs Executive Vice President,
Sales, effective July 1, 2007. Mr. Accardi also announced his planned retirement from SYSCO, effective December 31, 2007.
 
 
Transition and Early Retirement Agreement
In
contemplation of
Mr. Accardis planned retirement,
the Company entered into a Transition and Early Retirement Agreement with him
on May 8, 2007,
effective as of the eighth day after its execution by Mr. Accardi, which provides the following benefits for Mr. Accardi:
In exchange for these benefits, Mr. Accardi has agreed to certain expanded non-competition, non-disclosure, non-disparagement and non-solicit provisions for a period of three years following termination of employment, and has agreed to assist the Company with its transition regarding his departure through December 31, 2007.
Further, Mr. Accardi has agreed to release any right to any claims known or unknown against the Company and its affiliates and hold the Company harmless against such claims.
Mr. Accardi has also agreed to terminate his Executive Severance Agreement with the Company, effective
as the eighth day after the execution of the Transition and Early Retirement Agreement by Mr. Accardi, unless Mr. Accardi rescinds the Transition and Early Retirement Agreement before that time,
and to relinquish all rights thereunder. Except as described herein, all of Mr. Accardis rights under the Companys employee benefit plans remain unaffected.
Mr. Accardi will receive the benefits above unless he retires, or otherwise voluntarily resigns prior to December 31, 2007, or is terminated by the Company for cause. Mr. Accardi is not entitled to receive any of the additional benefits or payments payable pursuant to the Transition and Early Retirement Agreement after the date of any breach by him of the Transition and Early Retirement Agreements covenants regarding confidential information and trade secrets, customer, supplier and employee solicitation, and non-disparagement or if, after sixty days following written notice from the Company to him of a breach under the Transition and Early Retirement Agreements non-competition clause, he fails to cease the activity that is the subject of the notice to the Companys full satisfaction.
Increased Service Credit Under SERP
Under the terms of the Companys Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the SERP), without regard to the provisions of the Executive Severance Agreement discussed above and prior to the additional service credit provided pursuant to the Transition and Early Retirement Agreement, upon his retirement in good standing on December 31, 2007, Mr. Accardi would have been 85% vested in his accrued SERP benefit based on his age at retirement and his years of service under the Companys Management Incentive Plans (18 years at retirement). Under the terms of the SERP, the joint and two-thirds survivor option (with a ten-year certain guarantee) is the form of benefit payable to Mr. Accardi. The additional year of service credit provided to Mr. Accardi pursuant to the Transition and Early Retirement Agreement will result in Mr. Accardi, at the time of his retirement on December 31, 2007, becoming 90% vested in his accrued benefits under the SERP, increasing his annual estimated payment under the SERP by approximately $50,000.
 
 
 
Increased Service Credit Under Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Under the terms of the Companys Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the EDCP),
without regard to the provisions of the Executive Severance Agreement discussed above and
prior to the additional service credit provided pursuant to the Transition and Early Retirement Agreement, upon his retirement in good standing on December 31, 2007, Mr. Accardi would have been 85% vested in the unvested Company matching contributions credited to his EDCP account, taking into account Mr. Accardis actual age and Management Incentive Plan participation (18 years at retirement). The additional year of Management Incentive Plan service credit provided to Mr. Accardi pursuant to the Transition and Early Retirement Agreement will result in Mr. Accardi, at the time of his retirement on December 31, 2007, becoming 90% vested in the unvested Company matching contributions to his EDCP account
and associated deemed earnings, increasing his annual estimated payment (which is payable for 15 years following retirement) under the EDCP by approximately $5,000.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


