FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20070430074709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 30, 2007, SYSCO Corporation ("SYSCO") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter ended March 31, 2007 of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated April 30, 2007 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by SYSCO under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week third quarter and 39 weeks of fiscal 2007 ended March 31, 2007.
HOUSTON, April 30, 2007
Third Quarter Fiscal 2007 Highlights
Year-To-Date Fiscal 2007 Highlights
     "SYSCO continues to have strong sales growth, outpacing the market and our competition. Sales combined with solid margins and expense control helped us to successfully leverage our growth, resulting in a very good quarter," said Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman, chief executive officer and president. "As the leader of the foodservice industry, our goal is to accelerate our growth, and we believe our long-term strategic business initiatives are paving the way to achieve this goal."
Sales
     Net sales growth for the third quarter of fiscal 2007 was 5.3% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2006. The impact of EITF 04-13 reduced third quarter 2007 sales growth by 0.9%, or $76.7 million. Sales from acquisitions (less than 12 months) contributed 0.5% to the third quarter's sales growth. Food cost inflation, as measured by the change in SYSCO's cost of goods, was 2.9%.
     During the third quarter, approximately 12,000 business reviews were performed at SYSCO's U.S. broadline operations, and approximately 32,000 business reviews were completed in the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2007. Sales to customers that participated in the business review process continued to be solid and are in line with results from previous quarters.
 
     An additional 184 customer contact personnel were added during the third quarter. A total of 480 customer contact personnel have been added since the third quarter of 2006, a 4.6% increase.
Gross Profit Margins
     During the third quarter, gross profit margins increased to 19.06% from 18.87% in last year's third quarter, including a 17 basis point improvement due to the impact of EITF 04-13. This improvement is due to solid performance across the different segments.
Expenses
     Operating expenses as a percent of sales were 14.62% during the third quarter, a 4 basis point decrease from the same quarter last year despite the impact of EITF 04-13, which increased third quarter 2007 expenses as a percent to sales by 13 basis points.
     The decrease is primarily due to strong operating expense leverage. Decreases in pension and stock compensation expenses were largely offset by higher corporate expenses, including incentive accruals and expenses related to strategic business initiatives and the gains recorded in the prior year due to company-owned life insurance.
Capital Spending
     Capital expenditures during the third quarter were $142.7 million. Through the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2007, capital expenditures were $457.2 million. For the full fiscal year 2007, the company continues to project that capital expenditures will be in the range of $575 million to $625 million.
     The primary areas for investments during the third quarter included facility replacements, expansions, construction of fold-out operations, additions to SYSCO's fleet and the new redistribution center (RDC) in Alachua, FL.
Other Recent Developments
     During the third quarter, SYSCO purchased land for its third RDC in Hamlet, IN. The second RDC in Alachua, FL, is currently under construction and continues to be on schedule.
     SYSCO has initiated construction on two fold-out operations, Sysco Food Services of Knoxville, LLC located in Knoxville, TN and Sysco Food Services of East Texas, LLC located in Longview, TX. The Knoxville operation is expected to be completed during the first quarter of calendar 2008; the East Texas operation during the second quarter of calendar 2008.
Conference Call & Webcast
     SYSCO's third quarter fiscal 2007 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, April 30, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. EDT. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About SYSCO
     SYSCO is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. For the calendar year 2006, the company generated $33.9 billion in sales. For more information about SYSCO visit www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding sales growth; the impact of strategic business initiatives; anticipated completion dates for new facilities; the ability to leverage operating expenses; and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to SYSCO's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and consumer spending; increased fuel costs; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price, operating results or debt ratio or significantly increase the Company's liquidity requirements; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital
 
purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 


