FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20070129080027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14A-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 29, 2007, SYSCO Corporation ("SYSCO") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter ended December 30, 2006 of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated January 29, 2007 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by SYSCO under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week second quarter and 26 weeks of fiscal 2007 ended December 30, 2006.
HOUSTON, January 29, 2007 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2007 Highlights
First Half Fiscal 2007 Highlights
     "This quarter has been marked by our consistently strong sales growth and effective expense control," said Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman, chief executive officer and president. "The main drivers for the sales growth continue to be our business reviews and the efforts of our marketing associates. Business reviews remain very successful with our customers and we are well on track to achieve our goal of conducting 40,000 reviews this fiscal year. We also saw progress leveraging our expenses this quarter, specifically at the operating company level as they continued to run their businesses more efficiently. Looking forward, we will continue to build on the unique initiative of business reviews as well as to further leverage our operating expenses."
Sales
     Net sales growth for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was 7.5% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2006. The impact of EITF 04-13 reduced second quarter 2007 sales growth by 1.1%, or $85.5 million. Sales from acquisitions (less than 12 months) contributed 1.0% to the second quarter's sales growth. Food cost inflation, as measured by the change in SYSCO's cost of goods, was 2.6%.
     During the second quarter approximately 10,000 business reviews were performed at SYSCO's U.S. broadline operations, and approximately 20,000 business reviews were completed in the first half of fiscal 2007. Sales to customers that participated in the business review process continued to be solid and are fully in line with results from previous quarters. An additional 89 customer contact professionals have been added during the second quarter and a total of 151 since the beginning of fiscal 2007.
 
Gross Profit Margins
     During the second quarter, gross profit margins increased to 19.30% from 19.27% in last year's second quarter, including a 19 basis point improvement due to the impact of EITF 04-13. Margins were primarily negatively impacted by inflation, which had an effect on customer and supplier pricing. In addition, there was a sales shift within the different company segments as some lower margin segments grew faster than the broadline segment.
Expenses
     Operating expenses as a percent of sales were 14.48% during the second quarter, a 22 basis point improvement over the same quarter last year. The impact of EITF 04-13 increased second quarter 2007 expenses as a percent of sales by 14 basis points due to the reduction of $85.5 million in reported sales. The reduction of the expense ratio is primarily a result of decreased pension cost and reduced stock compensation. In addition, operating companies saw initial results from expense control measures, in particular in the area of warehouse expenses. A portion of these reductions were offset by an incremental $11.4 million in strategy initiative costs in the second quarter and $20.8 million in the first half of fiscal 2007.
Capital Spending & Other Recent Developments
     Capital expenditures during the second quarter were $198.6 million. Through the first half of fiscal 2007, capital expenditures were $314.5 million. For the full fiscal year 2007, the company continues to project capital expenditures to be in the range of $575 million to $625 million.
     The primary areas for growth investments during the second quarter included facility replacements and expansions, construction of fold-out operations, additions to SYSCO's fleet and the new redistribution center (RDC) in Alachua, FL. SYSCO has obtained building permits for this RDC and the process of preparing the building site was completed successfully and on schedule by the end of the quarter. Construction for this RDC is expected to take approximately 14 months.
     SYSCO is planning to initiate construction on fold-out operations in Longview, TX and in Knoxville, TN during the second half of fiscal 2007.
Conference Call & Webcast
     SYSCO's second quarter fiscal 2007 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, January 29, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. EST. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About SYSCO
     SYSCO is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. For the fiscal year 2006 that ended July 1, 2006, the company generated $32.6 billion in sales. For more information about SYSCO visit www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding continued competitive advantages and positive results from growth initiatives; the potential for future success in fiscal 2007; the ability to leverage operating expenses and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to SYSCO's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and consumer spending; increased fuel costs; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price, operating results or debt ratio or significantly increase the Company's liquidity requirements; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Comparative segment sales data. (Unaudited) ($000)
 
Comparative segment sales data. (Unaudited) ($000)
 
 
 
Comparative SYSCO Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.


