FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20070815120628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY
ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
Fiscal 2007 Supplemental Bonus
On August 13, 2007, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of Sysco Corporation (SYSCO) determined that the fiscal 2007 performance of Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, exceeded expectations based on its annual review using the criteria set forth in the 2006 Supplemental Performance-Based Bonus Plan (the "Supplemental Plan"), as described in the Registrants Report on Form 8-K dated June 9, 2006 and the agreement entered into thereunder in June 2006. The Committee also determined that, as a result, Mr. Schnieders would be entitled to a Supplemental Bonus (as defined in the Supplemental Plan) equal to 17% of his base bonus earned for fiscal 2007 pursuant to the 2005 Management Incentive Plan (the 2005 MIP).
Further, on August 13, 2007, the Committee also determined that the performance of the other executive officers listed below Mr. Schnieders in the chart below exceeded expectations, both individually and as a group, based on its annual review using the criteria set forth in the Supplemental Plan and the agreements entered into thereunder in June 2006 with each of the executives. The Committee also determined that, as a result, each of these executives would also be entitled to a Supplemental Bonus equal to 17% of his base bonus earned for fiscal 2007 pursuant to the 2005 MIP.
 
The amounts to be paid under the Supplemental Plan to the executives are as follows:
(1) William J. DeLaney, III was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective July 1, 2007.
(2) John K. Stubblefield, Jr. retired as Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer effective June 30, 2007.
Neither Mr. Schnieders nor the other executives listed above have any material relationship with SYSCO or its affiliates except in respect of their current and past employment relationships, Mr. Schnieders' position as director, Mr. Stubblefields position as a former director, ownership of SYSCO securities, and as otherwise disclosed in SYSCO's most recently filed proxy statement and subsequent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


