FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20070718182527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 5.05 AMENDMENTS TO THE REGISTRANTS CODE OF ETHICS, OR WAIVER OF A PROVISION OF THE CODE OF ETHICS.
On July 13, 2007, the Board of Directors of SYSCO Corporation (SYSCO or the Company) approved certain amendments to the Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) which applies to all of SYSCOs employees, officers and directors. The material amendments to the Code are discussed below.
Section 1, Overall Standards, was expanded to provide that for officers and directors, the highest legal, moral, and ethical standards for honesty, integrity and fairness are to be practiced, not only in conducting SYSCOs affairs, as the Code previously provided, but also in the conduct of non-corporate and personal affairs.
 
Section 3, Conflicts of Interest, was expanded to clarify conflict issues by describing in more detail conflicting roles and practices.
Section 5, Receipt of Payments of Gifts, now provides a more straight-forward overall direction regarding the receipt of gifts and approves certain gifts valued $250 or less in certain circumstances. The amendments to this section also clarify from whom approvals should be obtained when accepting a gift. The amendments eliminated language referring to a Designated Recipient because it was not a clearly defined term and is now largely subsumed by the new clarification regarding approvals. The provision stating that a gift can be accepted if it can be consumed or fully utilized within a 24 hour period was deleted.
A new Section 9, Foreign Corrupt Practices and Anti-Bribery, was added to specifically prohibit giving anything of value to a foreign official with the intent of improperly influencing him or her to obtain an unfair advantage for SYSCO.
Additional technical amendments to the Code were made, and the foregoing description of the amendments to the Code does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amended Code, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 14.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
On July 13, 2007, the Board of Directors of SYSCO authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million additional shares of the Companys common stock during the next approximately 12 to 18 month period. The Company may repurchase shares by means of privately negotiated transactions or open market purchases effected from time to time as determined by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President of Finance and Treasurer and any Assistant Treasurer, or any other officer performing substantially similar duties (collectively, the Authorized Officers); provided, however, that such repurchases will be effected only in accordance with the terms of all applicable federal and state securities laws, including, but not limited to, Rule 10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Purchases may be made through the use of 10b5-1 Plans. The Board of Directors authorized and directed the Authorized Officers to implement the share repurchase program and to take any actions to assist in the implementation and disbursement of funds of the Company in payment of any repurchased shares. Approximately 1.8 million shares remain available for repurchase under previously authorized repurchase plans.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Exhibit Number
 
 
Description
 
 
 
14.1
 
 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as amended on July 13, 2007
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.1
 
 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as amended on July 13, 2007

 
 
 
Dear SYSCO Associates, Officers and Directors,
 
Sysco Corporation was founded with a commitment to the highest ethical standards of business conduct and fair dealing in the company's relations with all associates, customers, suppliers and shareholders. Over the years, the practice of this philosophy has earned SYSCO a valuable reputation...a reputation vital to sustaining our position as industry leader. This Code of Business Conduct and Ethics clarifies our standards of conduct in potentially sensitive situations; it makes it clear that Sysco Corporation expects all associates, officers and directors to understand and appreciate the ethical considerations of their decisions; and it reaffirms our long-standing commitment to a culture of corporate and individual accountability and responsibility for the highest ethical and business practices. I encourage you to carefully read this Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, discuss any questions that you may have with your immediate supervisor and retain it for future use.
 
Sincerely,
 
Richard J. Schnieders
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kenneth F. Spitler
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
President & Chief Operating Officer
 
 
 
 
Introduction
The Board of Directors of Sysco Corporation has adopted this Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to clarify the standards under which SYSCO and its Board of Directors operate and the principles under which the Board and all SYSCO officers and associates carry out their duties. Sysco Corporation, its operating companies and its subsidiaries and divisions are referred to collectively in this Code as SYSCO. The Board of Directors may revise this Code from time to time and will announce any changes as they are adopted. Nothing in the Code is intended or will be considered to (i) amend the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of SYSCO, (ii) change the legal duties imposed upon associates, officers or directors under Delaware, federal and other applicable statutes, rules and regulations or (iii) change any rights of the associates, officers or directors to indemnification under Delaware and other applicable law or SYSCOs Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws. References herein to federal, state, local or other applicable laws refer to the laws of the United States, Canada and all other applicable jurisdictions.
Preamble
This Code applies to all associates, officers and directors of Sysco Corporation. It is important to the success of the Code that each associate, officer and director of SYSCO understands that:
 
  
He or she is personally responsible for his or her own conduct in complying with this Code and for promptly reporting known or suspected violations to the individuals designated for this purpose.
  
 
  
No one has the authority or right to order, direct, request or even attempt to influence someone else to violate this Code or the law. Thus, no one will be excused for violating this Code or the law at the direction or request of someone else.
  
  
Any attempt by any associate, officer or director to have another associate, officer or director violate this Code, whether successful or not, shall be a violation of this Code and may be a violation of law.
  
Any retaliation or threat to retaliate against an associate, officer or director for refusing to violate this Code or for reporting in good faith a violation or a suspected violation of this Code shall be a violation of this Code and may be a violation of law.
  
  
Every suspected violation of this Code by an associate, officer or director will be investigated and every actual violation will constitute grounds for removal of such director and for dismissal of such associate or officer.
1. Overall Standard
 
The highest legal, moral and ethical standards of honesty, integrity and fairness are to be practiced in the conduct of SYSCOs affairs. For all officers and directors, the highest legal, moral, and ethical standards of honesty, integrity, and fairness are to be practiced in the conducting of SYSCOs affairs and also in the conducting of non-corporate and personal affairs. All associates, officers and directors of SYSCO must always act in full compliance with all applicable United States and foreign federal, state, local and other laws, ordinances and regulations and with this Code. Failure to do so or to report promptly apparent violations of law or this Code may result in removal, dismissal, or other appropriate disciplinary action.
 
2. Equal Opportunity
 
It is the policy of SYSCO to provide recruitment, hiring, training, promotion and other conditions of employment without regard to race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, religion, disability, national origin or veteran status, and to otherwise comply with all applicable anti-discrimination laws. It is the policy of SYSCO to provide and maintain a working environment free of harassment, intimidation or exploitation of any nature, including sexual and racial harassment. SYSCO expects its associates, officers and directors to treat all SYSCO associates with respect and dignity and to fully support SYSCOs objectives of providing equal opportunity employment and maintaining a workplace free of harassment.
 
3. Conflicts of Interest
 
No associate, officer or director of SYSCO may engage in any activity that would conflict with or be contrary to the best interests of SYSCO. A conflict of interest occurs when an individuals private interest interferes in any way - or even appears to interfere - with the interests of SYSCO. A conflict situation can arise when an associate, officer or director takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult to perform his or her work objectively and effectively. Conflicts of interest also arise when an associate, officer or director, or a member of his or her family, receives improper personal benefits as a result of his or her position with SYSCO. Loans to, or guarantees of obligations of, such persons are of special concern. SYSCO shall not make a loan to or guarantee any obligation of any executive officer or director, other than as allowed by applicable law. In addition, no associate, officer or director of SYSCO may participate in the management, revenues or equity ownership of any competing business. Furthermore, no officer of SYSCO or its operating companies may, directly or indirectly, either as an employee, employer, consultant, agent, principal, partner, stockholder, corporate officer, director, or in any other individual or representative capacity, participate in the management, revenues or equity ownership of any SYSCO customer, supplier or consultant and such participation by all other associates is discouraged. Any associates participating in the management, revenues or equity ownership of any customer, supplier or consultant shall disclose in writing the nature and extent of such participation to the Chief Executive Officer of the Operating Company (for Operating Company associates) or to the General Counsel of Sysco Corporation (for corporate associates). (Even though an associate may be allowed to participate in equity ownership of a customer, supplier or consultant, the associate must never use his/her position with SYSCO to receive improper personal benefits or to aid in the receipt of improper benefits by such customer, supplier or consultant.) Any director participating in the management, revenues, debt or equity ownership of any customer, supplier or consultant shall disclose in writing the nature and extent of such participation to the Boards Chairman. An investment in the equity or debt of less than 3% of the relevant class of securities in a publicly held competing business, customer, supplier or consultant will not be deemed to be a violation of this policy.
4. Payment of Gratuities
 
In all dealings with suppliers, customers, governmental officials and associates of SYSCO, no director (in connection with his or her efforts or role as a director of SYSCO), associate or officer shall offer to give or give any payment or other significant thing of value that has as its purpose, or potential purpose, or may appear to have as its purpose, improperly influencing the business relationships between SYSCO and such persons or entities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this paragraph is not intended to prevent participation by SYSCO associates in legitimate promotional activities of SYSCOs suppliers or participation of SYSCOs suppliers in legitimate promotional activities of SYSCO. A SYSCO associate will be entitled to participate in such supplier promotional activities, however, only if and to the extent that the details of such activities are fully disclosed to and approved by the associates immediate supervisor and the Chief Executive Officer of the Operating Company employing such associate, if he or she is employed by an Operating Company, or Sysco Corporations Chief Executive Officer or his designee if the associate is employed by Sysco Corporation. In addition, this paragraph shall not prohibit a SYSCO associate from giving a reasonable and customary holiday gift to a SYSCO customer or supplier.
 
5. Receipt of Payments or Gifts
 
In all dealings with vendors, suppliers, customers and associates of SYSCO (Business Associates), no associate, officer or director (in connection with his or her efforts or role as a director of Sysco Corporation), associate or officer shall request or accept any payment or other significant thing of value in exchange for business opportunities or that has as its purpose, or potential purpose, or may appear to have as its purpose, improperly influencing the business relationships between SYSCO and such Business Associates.
 
This prohibition applies to any Business Associates with whom SYSCO has an existing or prospective relationship known to such associate, officer or director. In our continuing effort to maintain high ethical standards and to avoid appearances of impropriety, it is required that all associates, officers and directors decline any such payment or gift, except to the extent specifically permitted by this Section 4 of the Code.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a non-cash token of appreciation such as a meal, gift box, sporting event tickets, or similar items can be accepted if the value of such gift does not exceed $250.00.
Furthermore, no associate, officer or director (in connection with his or her efforts or role as a director of Sysco Corporation) may accept any gift whose value exceeds $250.00, participation in supplier promotional activities, vacation packages, hotel accommodations, trips or other similar items of value from any Business Associate with whom SYSCO has a business relationship unless he or she has fully disclosed the details of such item and obtained prior approval as follows: (i) in the case of an Operating Company associate, from the President/Chief Executive Officer of his or her Operating Company; (ii) in the case of an Operating Company President or Executive Vice President, from the Senior Vice President to whom he or she reports: (iii) in the case of Corporate associate, from the Executive Vice President to whom his or her department reports; (iv) in the case of Corporate officer, from the senior executive to whom he or she reports; (v) in the case of the President of Sysco Corporation, from the Chief Executive Officer of Sysco Corporation; (vi) in the case of a director, from the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Sysco Corporation; and (vii) in the case of the Chairman of the Board, from the Presiding Director. Gifts in the form of cash or checks are strictly prohibited.,
Although gifts valued at $250 or less may be accepted without prior disclosure and approval, corporate officers and Operating Company Chief Executive Officers are responsible for ensuring that there is no abuse or violation of SYSCOs ethical standards in the receipt of gifts by associates. Therefore, corporate officers and Operating Company Chief Executive Officers may implement, at their discretion, procedures for monitoring the receipt of gifts to ensure that there is no abuse in the receipt of gifts by associates or violations of the SYSCOs ethical standards. Corporate officers and Operating Company Chief Executive Officers must take appropriate action where the receipt, frequency or offer of gifts compromises business integrity or otherwise violates or has the potential to violate the Code.
 
6. Corporate Opportunities
 
Associates, officers and directors must advance the legitimate interests of SYSCO when the opportunity to do so arises. Associates, officers and directors, for their own accounts or the account of another, may not (i) pursue an opportunity discovered through the use of SYSCO property, information or position or (ii) use SYSCOs property, information or position for personal gain.
 
7. Political Contributions
 
Corporate contributions to any candidate for United States federal office or to any party or campaign in connection with any election for United States federal office are prohibited. Corporate political contributions to any other political candidate, party or campaign are generally discouraged and are prohibited where such contributions are unlawful. Political contributions by Operating Companies are prohibited. Furthermore, payments to any foreign officials, political candidates or political parties outside the United States are prohibited.
 
8. Competition and Fair Dealing
 
SYSCO seeks to outperform its competition fairly and honestly. We seek competitive advantages through superior performance, never through unethical or illegal business practices. Stealing proprietary information, possessing trade secret information that was wrongfully obtained, or inducing such disclosures by past or present associates of other companies is prohibited. Each associate, officer and director should endeavor to respect the rights of and deal fairly with SYSCOs customers, suppliers, competitors and associates. No associate, officer or director should take improper advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse of proprietary information, misrepresentation of material facts, or any other intentional improper-dealing practice.
9. Foreign Corrupt Practices and Anti-Bribery
 
All associates, officers or directors of SYSCO or any Operating Company, as well as agents, joint venture partners or other persons acting on behalf of SYSCO or any Operating Company, are prohibited from engaging in any activity that would offer, promise or pay money or anything of value to any Foreign Official with the intent and for the purpose of improperly influencing such official to secure, keep or obtain an unfair advantage in any contract, concession, or other favorable treatment for SYSCO or any Operating Company. Offers, promises or paying anything of value, including non-cash items, indirectly through agents, contractors or other third parties are also prohibited for such purposes. Small facilitating payments to effect routine government actions are permissible but only if fully described and approved by the associates immediate supervisor and the Chief Executive Officer of the Operating Company employing such associate if employed by an Operating Company, or SYSCO Corporations Chief Executive Officer or his designee if the associate is employed by SYSCO Corporation. Further, payments that are considered lawful under the written Laws of the foreign country in which the action takes place are permissible. For purposes of this Code, Foreign Official means any person acting in an official capacity for a foreign government, foreign political party or party official, candidate for foreign public office, officials of international organizations, or other individual in any country acting in an official capacity for or on behalf of the government of that country.
 
All books, records and accounts must accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of Company assets, both quantitatively and qualitatively. SYSCO shall maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to ensure compliance with all legally mandated record-keeping requirements.
 
10. Protection and Proper Use of SYSCOs Assets
 
All associates, officers and directors must endeavor to protect SYSCOs assets and ensure their efficient use. Theft, carelessness, and waste have a direct impact on SYSCOs profitability. Any suspected incident of fraud or theft must be immediately reported for investigation. All SYSCO assets should be used for legitimate business purposes.
 
The obligation of associates, officers and directors to protect SYSCOs assets includes its proprietary information. Proprietary information includes intellectual property such as trade secrets, patents, trademarks, and copyrights, as well as business, marketing and service plans, engineering and manufacturing ideas, designs, databases, records, salary information, any financial data and reports that have not been publicly disclosed and any other information not generally made available without restriction to third parties. Unauthorized use or distribution of this information violates this Code and may be illegal.
 
11. Financial Records, SEC Filings and Public Communications
 
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of Sysco Corporation, and all other persons performing similar functions for Sysco Corporation, shall be responsible for taking such actions and instituting such policies and procedures as they believe will most efficiently and effectively help to ensure full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in all reports and other documents that SYSCO files with or submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission and other applicable regulatory authorities and in all other public communications made by SYSCO.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of each Operating Company are responsible for the completeness and accuracy of all financial and other books and records relating to the operations of their Operating Company. Each is required to cause all assets, liabilities, receipts and disbursements to be entered in these books and records in accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles and SYSCO's corporate accounting policies and in a manner that will correctly reflect the nature and purpose of such assets, liabilities, receipts or disbursements as well as their actual amounts.
12. Contractual Commitments
 
It is of utmost importance to the integrity and reputation of SYSCO that SYSCO honors and fully complies with all contractual commitments.
 
13. Antitrust Law Compliance
 
All associates, officers and directors of SYSCO must comply in all respects with all applicable United States and foreign federal and state antitrust and other comparable laws. To that end, no SYSCO associate, officer or director may under any circumstances or in any context enter into any understanding or agreement (whether expressed or implied, formal or informal, written or oral) with a competitor or potential competitor, limiting or restricting in any way the actions of either party, including the offers of either party to any third party, as to prices, costs, profits, products, services, terms or conditions of sale, market share, decisions to quote or not to quote, customer or supplier classification or selection, sales territories or distribution methods.
 
14. Government Contracts
 
In business dealings directly or indirectly involving the sale of products or services to any United States or foreign federal, state, local or other governmental entity, and whether or not financed with appropriated funds, all associates, officers and directors of SYSCO so involved must fully and strictly comply with all applicable laws, regulations and contract provisions.
 
In this regard, United States federal law and the Criminal Code in Canada impose the following prohibitions in connection with contracting with the U.S. government, and the Canadian and provincial governments, respectively, which may not apply to other contracts:
 
PROHIBITED ACTS UNDER U.S. LAW
  
PROHIBITED ACTS UNDER U.S. AND CANADIAN LAW
PROHIBITED ACTS UNDER CANADIAN LAW
In addition, the following obligations apply to dealings in the United States and foreign countries:
 
OBLIGATIONS
15. Legal Compliance
 
Associates, officers and directors must always act in full and timely compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and other laws, ordinances and regulations, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange and with this Code. Applicable federal, state, local and other laws and regulatory agency rules with which compliance is required include, without limitation, statutes, court and agency rulings and Securities and Exchange Commission and New York Stock Exchange rules concerning:
 
16. Confidentiality
 
Associates, officers and directors must not disclose any confidential information of SYSCO until such time as the information has been publicly disclosed by SYSCO, except that disclosure may be made to professional advisors (such as SYSCOs counsel and auditors) where such disclosure is in furtherance of an associates, officers or directors duty as a SYSCO associate, officer or director. Absent unusual circumstances and subject always to the associates, officers or directors responsibilities under applicable law, associates, officers, and directors should refer media inquiries to the Chief Executive Officer or his or her designee.
17. Ethics Compliance Board
 
The Chairman of the Board of Sysco Corporation will designate an Ethics Compliance Board. The Ethics Compliance Board members will serve staggered three (3) year terms so that one-third of the Board members will complete their terms and be replaced with new members each year. The Board will be responsible for investigating and reporting to the Chairman of the Board and the Audit Committee on all reports of Code violations and for assuring the confidentiality thereof, subject to disclosure obligations to the U.S. Government, any foreign government or state, local or other applicable law enforcement authorities. The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Code and for the administration of training and compliance programs to insure compliance with the Code at the corporate and Operating Company level and will from time to time issue instructions and procedures relating to the Code. Such procedures may include the establishment of an ethics compliance board at each Operating Company to be responsible at such Operating Company for investigating all reports of Code violations, maintaining the Code in the Operating Company and administering local training and compliance programs to insure Code compliance at the Operating Company.
 
18. Operating Company Compliance and Training Program
 
The Chief Executive Officer of each Operating Company is responsible for developing and implementing a compliance and training program in his or her Operating Company to assist associates in becoming aware of and complying with the Code and other legal obligations imposed on the Operating Company by law or regulation. Such programs will be under procedures established by the Ethics Compliance Board, which procedures shall provide at least the following elements:
 
19. Reporting Violations of the Code
 
It is the obligation of every associate, officer and director to report promptly any actual or reasonably suspected violations of the Code in the manner established by SYSCOs Ethics Compliance Board or by the SYSCO Board of Directors (including anonymous "hot-line" reports). All reports will be promptly investigated and appropriate corrective or disciplinary action will be taken, including dismissal and notification of regulatory authorities when appropriate.
20. Waivers of the Code
 
Any waiver of this Code which involves Directors and/or Corporate Officers of SYSCO may be made only by the Board and will be promptly disclosed as and to the extent required by law or the rules of any stock exchange on which the Companys securities are listed. Waivers to this Code involving other associates may be made by the Chief Executive Officer of Sysco Corporation and will be reported promptly to the Board.
 
Conclusion
 
The central purpose of this Code is to serve as an ongoing reminder of Sysco Corporations policy of conducting its business in a legal and proper manner. This includes not only complying with all applicable laws but also treating SYSCOs customers, suppliers and associates with dignity and respect.
 
If you or your co-workers have an ethics question, talk to your supervisor, a member of the Human Resources department, your Ethics Compliance Board or to senior management. If the ethics issue has not been addressed to your satisfaction, then contact the Sysco Corporate Ethics Hotline toll free at 1-877-777-4020 or via email at syscoethics@corp.sysco.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date
 
 
Name Printed
 
 
 
 
 
 
Department Name/Number
 


