FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20070514185750.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF
 
DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY
ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
(c)
 
Appointment of William J. Delaney as Chief Financial Officer
On May 11, 2007, the Board of Directors of SYSCO Corporation (SYSCO or the Company) appointed William J. DeLaney as the Companys Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective July 1, 2007. In connection with his appointment as Chief Financial Officer, the Compensation Committee set his fiscal year 2008 base salary at $530,000.
Mr. DeLaney, 51, began his SYSCO career in 1987 as Assistant Treasurer at the Companys corporate headquarters. He was promoted to Treasurer in 1991, and in 1993 he was named a Vice President of the Company, continuing in those responsibilities until 1994. Mr. DeLaney joined SYSCO Food Services of Syracuse in 1996 as Chief Financial Officer, progressed to Senior Vice President in 1998 and Executive Vice President in 2002. In 2004, Mr. DeLaney was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of SYSCO Food Services of Charlotte. In January 2007, Mr. DeLaney was named Senior Vice President, Financial Reporting, of SYSCO.
(e)
 
Approval of Fiscal 2008 Bonus Awards under the 2005 Management Incentive Plan
On May 10, 2007, the Compensation Committee of SYSCOs Board of Directors approved fiscal 2008 bonus awards (the Fiscal 2008 Awards) for certain officers of the Company, including certain executive officers, under the Companys 2005 Management Incentive Plan.
Messrs. Schnieders, Spitler, Delaney and Pulliam
Richard J. Schnieders, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and President, Kenneth F. Spitler, Executive Vice President and President, North American Foodservice Operations, William J. Delaney, III, Senior Vice President, Financial Reporting, and Larry G. Pulliam, Executive Vice President, Merchandising Services (the Named Executive Officers), each received the same Fiscal 2008 Award, which provides for a potential bonus with two components. The first component is based on the performance of the Company as a whole and the second is based on the performance of the Companys operating divisions or subsidiaries.
The first component of the bonus is awarded to the Named Executive Officers only if the Company achieves specified earnings per share increases over fiscal 2007 and also achieves certain return on equity targets. This portion of the bonus is calculated by multiplying 70% of the Named Executive Officers base salary by a percentage determined based upon the levels of earnings per share increases and return on equity achieved by the Company as a whole. Return on equity is computed as net after-tax earnings for fiscal 2008 divided by the Companys average stockholders equity for fiscal 2008, computed by dividing 5 into the sum of the Companys stockholders equity at the beginning of the year and at the end of each quarter during the year.
The second component of the bonus is awarded to the Named Executive Officers only if at least 20 operating divisions and/or subsidiaries achieve certain return on capital targets and all operating divisions and subsidiaries that achieve the target return on capital employ at least half of the aggregate total capital of all Company operating divisions or subsidiaries. This portion of the bonus is calculated by multiplying the Named Executive Officers base salary by 9.0% with respect to the first 20 operating divisions or subsidiaries that achieve the target return on capital and by an additional 1.5% for each additional operating division or subsidiary that achieves the target return on capital.
Messrs. Smith and Lankford
Stephen F. Smith and James E. Lankford, each a Senior Vice President of Operations, each received a Fiscal 2008 Award that provides for a potential bonus with three components. The first component is based on the performance of the Company as a whole, the second is based on the performance of the executives supervised operations as if such supervised operations were a single operating company (the Supervised Operations Performance Bonus), and the third is based on the performance of the Companys operating divisions or subsidiaries.
The first component of the bonus is awarded only if the Company achieves specified earnings per share increases over fiscal 2007 and also achieves certain return on equity targets. This portion of the bonus is calculated by taking the sum of the following (i) the product of 50% of the officers base salary and 70% of a percentage determined based upon the levels of earnings per share increases and return on equity achieved by the Company as a whole; and (ii) the product of the officers base salary and 20% of a percentage determined based upon the levels of earnings per share increases and return on equity achieved by the Company as a whole. The executive will not be entitled to the bonus resulting from the calculation in clause (ii) unless the executive receives a Supervised Operations Performance Bonus. Return on equity is computed in the same manner as for the Named Executive Officers above.
The second component of the bonus awarded to the officers, the Supervised Operations Performance Bonus, will be the product of (i) the sum of 70% of a percentage determined based upon the levels of operating pretax increases and return on capital of the executives supervised operations and 30% of a percentage based upon the levels of pretax earnings and return on capital of executives supervised operations; and (ii) 70% of the officers base salary.
The third component of the bonus is awarded to the officers only if at least 20 operating divisions and/or subsidiaries of SYSCO achieve certain return on capital targets and all operating divisions and subsidiaries that achieve the target return on capital employ at least half of the aggregate total capital of all Company operating divisions or subsidiaries. This portion of the bonus is calculated by multiplying the officers base salary by 9.0% with respect to the first 20 operating divisions or subsidiaries that achieve the target return on capital and by an additional 1.5% for each additional operating division or subsidiary that achieves the target return on capital.
Terms of Fiscal 2008 Awards Applicable to Named Executive Officers and Messrs. Smith and Lankford
For purposes of computing the operating division, subsidiary portion or supervised operations portion of the bonus, return on capital is computed by dividing the operating divisions or subsidiarys pretax earnings (excluding any gain on the sale of fixed assets and intercompany interest income, and subject to adjustment to include taxes that would have been included but for the timing of any tax deferrals so that results are consistent with the prior year) by the operating divisions or subsidiarys total capital. Total capital is computed as the sum of (a) average stockholders equity, (b) average long-term debt, (c) average net intercompany borrowings, (d) average patronage dividends receivable and (e) certain specified adjustments (amounts allocated to capital with respect to (i) fixed rate intercompany loans, (ii) capitalized leases, (iii) below market plant and equipment costs, and (iv) other adjustments affecting capital approved by the Committee).
No bonus is paid unless the Company meets certain minimum targets with respect to each relevant performance measure. There is no maximum on the amount of bonus that may be earned, except that none of the Named Executive Officers or Messrs. Smith or Lankford are entitled to receive an annual bonus amount in excess of 1% of the Companys earnings before income taxes, as publicly disclosed in the Consolidated Results of Operations section of the Companys Form 10-K for fiscal 2008 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
If, during fiscal 2008, the Company sells or exchanges an operating division or subsidiary of the Company, and such sale or exchange results in the Company recognizing a net-after tax gain (an Extraordinary Gain), the Committee has the discretion to reduce the portion of the bonus payable with respect to overall Company performance to any participant under the Fiscal 2008 Awards, provided however, that the Committee may not reduce the portion of the bonus payable with respect to overall Company performance to an amount less than the bonus payable with respect to overall Company performance if the Company did not take into account the Extraordinary Gain in calculating such amount.
In determining whether or not the results of operations of the Company or an operating division or subsidiary of the Company result in a bonus under the Fiscal 2008 Awards, Company accounting practice and generally accepted accounting principles with respect to fiscal 2008 shall be applied on a basis consistent with fiscal 2007, and such determination shall be based on the calculations made by the Company, approved by the Committee, which determination shall be binding on each participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if there is any material change in the generally accepted accounting principles applied by the Company during fiscal 2008 relative to fiscal 2007 that results in a material change in accounting, the bonus for fiscal 2008 shall be calculated as if such change had not occurred during fiscal 2008.
The Committee must approve the payment of any bonus under the Fiscal 2008 Awards within 90 days following the end of fiscal 2008. All bonuses under the Fiscal 2008 Awards are subject to the provisions of the 2005 Management Incentive Plan, a copy of which has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Approval of Fiscal Year 2008 Supplemental Bonus Agreement with CEO under the 2006 Supplemental Performance-Based Bonus Plan
On May 10, 2007, the Committee approved the form of Fiscal Year 2008 CEO Supplemental Bonus Agreement to be entered into under the 2006 Supplemental Performance-Based Bonus Plan (the Supplemental Plan). SYSCO and Mr. Schnieders are expected to enter into the agreement no later than June 30, 2007.
In addition to those provisions of the Supplemental Plan previously described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 15, 2006, the agreement contains the following material provisions:
Increase in Management Incentive Plan (MIP) Bonus
. If the Committee determines that Mr. Schnieders annual performance for fiscal 2008 has exceeded expectations, as determined by the Committee based on their annual review of Mr. Schnieders against the criteria specified in the agreement, Mr. Schnieders will be entitled to an additional bonus equal to up to 25% of his Total Cash MIP Bonus (as defined below) with respect fiscal 2008, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Any such bonus would be paid solely under the Supplemental Plan, not the MIP, and would be included in the calculation of that portion of Mr. Schnieders compensation that is subject to the $1 million dollar cap placed on certain compensation deductions allowed to be taken by SYSCO under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. This means that based on Mr. Schnieders overall compensation package, it is likely that any such bonuses would not be deductible. The amount of any Additional Shares, as that term is defined in the MIP, issued to Mr. Schnieders under the MIP shall be determined without regard to any additional bonus under the Supplemental Plan. The amount of any supplemental bonus will be included in the calculation of Mr. Schnieders final average compensation under the Companys Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) but will not be included in calculating his protected final average compensation under the SERP. Mr. Schnieders will not receive any payment under the Supplemental Plan if he does not also earn a bonus under the MIP.
Pursuant to the agreement, the Committee will evaluate Mr. Schnieders fiscal 2008 performance based on the following performance goals:
Reduction in MIP Bonus
. Mr. Schnieders will agree that if his performance for fiscal 2008 is below expectations, as determined by the Committee based on their annual review of Mr. Schnieders against the criteria set forth in the agreement, his MIP bonus for fiscal 2008 shall be reduced by up to 25% of his Total Cash MIP Bonus (as defined below), the amount of such reduction to be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The amount of any Additional Shares, as that term is defined in the MIP, issued to Mr. Schnieders under the MIP shall be determined after reducing the MIP bonus by any forfeited amount.
Total Cash MIP Bonus
. For a given executive, the term Total Cash MIP Bonus means the cash bonus earned by the executive under the MIP for fiscal 2008, exclusive of any portion of the MIP bonus that is paid in SYSCO common stock. The Total Cash MIP Bonus will not include any SYSCO matching contributions resulting from the deferral of all or a portion of the MIP bonus under any SYSCO executive deferral plan.
Termination of Employment
. If Mr. Schnieders employment with SYSCO terminates for any reason prior to the end of fiscal 2008, including, without limitation, as a result of death, disability or following a change of control of SYSCO, and if his performance through the date of termination in 2008 exceeds expectations, as determined by the Committee based on a review of Mr. Schnieders against the criteria set forth in the agreement, he may, in the discretion of the Committee, be awarded a bonus under the Supplemental Plan, but only if he is entitled to receive a bonus under the MIP pursuant to the terms of his severance agreement with SYSCO. In such an event, the Committee may exercise its discretion to award Mr. Schnieders a bonus equal to up to 25% of his Total Cash MIP Bonus. In no event, however, if Mr. Schnieders employment with SYSCO terminates prior to the end of fiscal 2008 may his MIP bonus be reduced pursuant to the terms of the Supplemental Plan.
Payment and Deferral
. Under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (EDCP), Executive may elect to defer up to 40% of his performance bonus. Any performance bonus earned under the Supplemental Plan not otherwise deferred under the EDCP will be paid as soon as administratively feasible following the Committees determination of Mr. Schnieders entitlement thereto
.
Approval of Fiscal Year 2008 Supplemental Bonus Agreement with Certain Corporate Officers (other than the CEO) under the 2006 Supplemental Performance-Based Bonus Plan
On May 10, 2007, the Committee approved the form of Fiscal Year 2008 Supplemental Bonus Agreement to be entered into under the Supplemental Plan with certain of its officers other than the Chief Executive Officer, including Messrs. DeLaney, Pulliam and Spitler, as well as Messrs. Smith and Lankford. SYSCO and each such executive (each an Executive) individually are expected to enter into the agreements no later than June 30, 2007.
In addition to those provisions of the Supplemental Plan previously described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 15, 2006, and those of the agreement previously described above, the agreements contain the following material provisions:
Increase in Management Incentive Plan (MIP) Bonus
. Each Executive will be evaluated, together with certain other designated participants under the Supplemental Plan, as a group (the Management Team), based on the Committees judgment of the Management Teams alignment with (i) the Companys fiscal year goals; and (ii) the strategy initiatives of the Company, based on the criteria discussed below. If the Committee determines that the Executives annual performance for fiscal 2008 has exceeded expectations, as determined by the Committee based on its annual review of the Management Team, as a group, against the criteria specified in the agreement, the Executive will be entitled to an additional cash bonus of up to 25% of his Total Cash MIP Bonus with respect fiscal 2008, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Any such bonus would be paid solely under the Supplemental Plan, not the MIP, and would be included in the calculation of that portion of the Executives compensation that is subject to the $1 million dollar cap placed on certain compensation deductions allowed to be taken by SYSCO under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. This means that based on the Executives overall compensation package, it is likely that any such bonuses would not be deductible. The amount of any Additional Shares, as that term is defined in the MIP, issued to the Executive under the MIP shall be determined without regard to any additional bonus under the Supplemental Plan. The amount of any supplemental bonus will be included in the calculation of the Executives final average compensation under the Companys SERP but will not be included in the calculation of his protected final average compensation, to the extent that he is a protected participant under the SERP. The Executive will not receive any payment under the Supplemental Plan if he or she does not also earn a bonus under the MIP. Pursuant to the agreement, the Committee will evaluate the Management Teams fiscal 2008 performance based on the following performance goals:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reduction in MIP Bonus
. The Executive will agree that if the Executives performance for fiscal 2008 is below expectations, as determined by the Committee based on its annual review of the Management Team against the criteria set forth in the agreement, his MIP bonus for fiscal 2008 shall be reduced by up to 25% of his Total Cash MIP Bonus, the amount of such reduction to be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The amount of any Additional Shares, as that term is defined in the MIP, awarded to the Executive under the MIP shall be determined after reducing the MIP bonus by any forfeited amount.
Termination of Employment
. Mr. Spitler has entered into a severance agreement with SYSCO. With respect to Executives who have entered into a severance agreement with SYSCO and whose employment with SYSCO terminates for any reason prior to the end of fiscal 2008, including, without limitation, as a result of death, disability or following a change of control of SYSCO, if the Executives performance through the date of termination in 2008 exceeds expectations, as determined by the Committee based on a review of the Management Team against the criteria set forth in the agreement, such Executive may, in the discretion of the Committee, be awarded a bonus under the Supplemental Plan, but only if he is entitled to receive a bonus under the MIP pursuant to the terms of his severance agreement with SYSCO. In such an event, the Committee may exercise its discretion to award the Executive a bonus equal to up to 25% of his Total Cash MIP Bonus. In no event, however, if the Executives employment with SYSCO terminates prior to the end of fiscal 2008, may his MIP bonus be reduced pursuant to the terms of the Supplemental Plan. If the Executive has not entered into a severance agreement with SYSCO and the Executives employment with SYSCO terminates for any reason prior to the end of fiscal 2008, including, without limitation, as a result of death, disability or following a change of control of SYSCO, the Executive shall not be entitled to any supplemental bonus for such fiscal year.
 
Payment and Deferral
. Under the EDCP, Executive may elect to defer up to 40% of his performance bonus. Any performance bonus earned under the Supplemental Plan not otherwise deferred under the EDCP will be paid as soon as administratively feasible following the Committees determination of the Executives entitlement thereto.
ITEM 5.03 AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS;
 
CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR.
In 2006, the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America submitted to SYSCO a non-binding proposal asking that the Board of Directors initiate the appropriate process to amend SYSCOs corporate governance documents to establish a majority vote standard in uncontested director elections. The response of the Board of Directors in the Companys 2006 proxy statement indicated that it had directed the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee to conduct a study of corporate governance best practices at publicly held U.S. corporations. Among other things, the Board had requested the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee to recommend to the Board for adoption appropriate governance-related amendments to the Companys Bylaws and Corporate Governance Guidelines. The actions described in this Item 5.03 and in Item 8.01 below are a result of such study.
(a)
 
On May 11, 2007, the Board amended the Companys Amended and Restated Bylaws in several respects, including many changes meant to modernize the Bylaws and to provide clarity and consistency with Delaware corporate law. The primary and substantive changes, including a number of changes to modernize the Bylaws, were as follows:
Election of Directors by Majority Vote
 
Article I, Section 6 was amended to adopt a majority vote standard whereby each director to be elected will be elected by a majority of the votes cast when a quorum is present. However, if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected at the meeting as of the meetings record date, then each director to be elected shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast. Previously, directors were elected by a plurality of the votes cast.
Uncertificated Shares
In accordance with Section 158 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, Article I, Section 1, was amended to allow for shares of Company stock to be represented either by certificates or in uncertificated form. Should uncertificated shares be issued in the future, the issuance will not affect shares already represented by certificates until such certificates are surrendered to the Company.
Fractional Shares
Article I, Section 2, which related to fractional share interests, was eliminated. Previously, this section provided that the Company would not issue fractions of a share but would either pay in cash the fair value of such fractional share or issue scrip or fractional warrants.
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
Article I, Section 4(b), was amended to add electronic transmission as permitted by Delaware General Corporation Law as a means by which a written consent of stockholders may be taken. The Boards response time to adopt a resolution fixing the record date for an action by written consent, in response to a stockholder request, was changed from ten business days to ten days.
 
Stockholder Meetings
Reference to the Companys first annual meeting was removed from Article I, Section 6, and provision for holding the annual meeting by use of remote communications was added. The description of annual meeting was clarified to provide that such meeting is for the election of directors to succeed those who terms expire and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting.
The section entitled Place, providing that meetings shall be held at such place as the directors may, from time to time, fix, and that whenever the directors shall fail to fix such place, the meeting shall be held at the principal executive office of the Company, was eliminated from Article I, Section 6.
Article I, Section 6 was amended to provide that special meetings, other than those required by statute, may be called at any time by the Board acting pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board. Whole board is stated to mean the total number of directors that the Company would have if there were no vacancies. Previously this section stated that annual and special meetings may be called by the Chairman of the Board or by the directors or by any officer instructed by the directors to call the meeting.
The content of the notice of a stockholder meeting has been expanded to include the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders may be deemed to be present at the meeting. Pursuant to the amendment, notice may now be given other than by mail and shall be deemed given at the time prescribed in the Delaware General Corporation Law. Notice is now deemed to be given to all stockholders who share an address if notice is given in accordance with the householding rules set forth in Rule 14a-3(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 233 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, Article I, Section 6 now provides that notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any, thereof, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at the adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. However, if the date of any adjourned meeting is more than 30 days after the date for which the meeting was originally noticed, or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, Article I, Section 6 now requires that notice of the place, if any, date, and time of the adjourned meeting and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, shall be given in conformity with new Section 5 of the Bylaws. This is a change from the former provision that if a meeting was adjourned to another time and/or to another place, and if an announcement of the adjourned time and/or place was made at the meeting, it was not necessary to give notice of the adjourned meeting unless the adjournment was for more than 30 days or the directors, after adjournment, fixed a new record date for the adjourned meeting. That provision was eliminated in favor of the new requirement set forth above. Also, stockholders may now submit a waiver of notice by electronic communication.
Article I, Section 6 regarding the examination of the stockholder list was amended to delete the requirement that the list would only be available at the time and place of the meeting to allow for the availability of the list during the meeting in instances where the meeting is held by remote communication.
Revision was made to Article I, Section 6 to include a person designated by the Board of Directors as the chairman who may preside over stockholder meetings in the absence of the Chairman of the Board rather than a specified list of officers. The powers and authority of the chairman of the stockholder meeting were defined to include determining the order of business and the procedure at the meeting, including regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of discussion. Also, the chairman will have the power to adjourn the meeting to another place, if any, date and time.
Provision was made in Article I, Section 6 for the Board of Directors to appoint an inspector to fill a vacancy should a previously appointed inspector fail to appear or fail or refuse to act. If no such appointment is made, the chairman of the meeting will fill the vacancy at the meeting.
Effectiveness of Written Consent
Article I, Section 7(c) was revised to add that a telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission consenting to an action to be taken and transmitted by a stockholder or proxyholder, or person authorized by them, will be deemed to be written, signed and dated for the purposes of the bylaws, to the extent permitted by law. Any such written consent will now be deemed delivered if delivered in accordance with applicable law.
Advance Notice Provisions for Election of Directors
 
Article I, Section 8 was amended to define what constitutes a public announcement and to require information regarding beneficial owners on whose behalf a director nomination is made.
Stockholder Proposals
Article I, Section 9 was amended to require information regarding beneficial owners on whose behalf a proposal is made.
Directors
In Article II, Section 2, the size range specified for the Board of Directors was changed to five to 15 directors. The previous range was from three to 15 directors. Further, certain historical provisions used to implement the Companys classified Board structure and to name the Companys first Board that are no longer necessary were deleted.
Certain of the information previously contained under the headings Time, Place, and Call was consolidated into the paragraph that immediately followed those headings or was deleted.
The Board of Directors may no longer remove a director for cause.
The Chairman of the Board will no longer be automatically classified as an officer or an ex officio member of all standing Board committees.
Officers
 
Article III was amended to remove the Chairman of Board and add the Chief Financial Officer to the list of officers that the Board elects. The following language was deleted:
The Chairman of the Board shall be an ex officio member of all standing committees unless otherwise provided in the resolution appointing such committees. The Chairman of the Board shall have power to call meetings of the shareholders and directors of the Corporation and shall have the power to act as chairman of such meetings.
Electronic transmission was added as a means by which officers may resign. The following language was deleted:
The Chairman, if any, of the Board of Directors shall preside, if present, at all meetings of stockholders and directors. Unless the Board specifies another officer, the Chairman of the Board shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation. During the absence or disability of the President, the Chairman shall exercise all the powers and discharge all the duties of the President.
The President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, shall preside, if present, at all meetings of stockholders and directors.
The duties and officer responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer were added to Article III.
Indemnification
Changes were made to provide greater specificity with respect to certain indemnification rights, including the addition of a severability clause designed to preserve the remainder of the indemnification bylaw if part of it is deemed invalid or unenforceable. Provisions were added for procedures for submission of indemnification claims, for liability to indemnitees upon claim settlements and for subrogation of rights and claims.
The Board ordered the Bylaws as so amended to be restated. The foregoing summary of the Bylaw amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Companys Bylaws, as amended and restated on May 11, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.5 and is incorporated by reference.
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
As described in Item 5.03 above, the actions described in this Item 8.01 are the result of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees study of corporate governance best practices at publicly held U.S. corporations.
Amendments to the Corporate Governance Guidelines
On May 11, 2007, the Board also approved amendments to the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines (the Guidelines), including the following:
Corporate Governance Guidelines:
Director Qualifications
Corporate Governance Guidelines:
Voting for Directors
Corporate Governance Guidelines:
Executive Committee
Corporate Governance Guidelines:
Director Access to Officers, Employees and Advisors
Corporate Governance Guidelines:
Stock Ownership Requirement
 
The foregoing summary of the amendments to the Corporate Governance Guidelines is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines, as amended on May 11, 2007, a copy of which is attached hereto as 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.
Revision of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees Procedures for Stockholder Submission of Director Candidate Recommendations
On May 10, 2007, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee approved revisions to the procedures established by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee for stockholders to submit the names of potential director candidates to the Committee, as described annually in SYSCOs proxy statement. These revisions were implemented to institute a less formal process for stockholders to recommend director candidates to the Committee.
Stockholders can recommend candidates for consideration by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee by writing to the Corporate Secretary, 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077, and including the following information: (i) the name and address of the stockholder; (ii) the name and address of the person to be nominated; (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of the Companys stock entitled to vote at the meeting; (iv) a statement in support of the stockholders recommendation, including a description of the candidates qualifications; (v) information regarding the candidate as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed in accordance with the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (vi) the candidates written, signed consent to serve if elected.
The Committee typically recommends director candidates to the Board in early July of each year. Director candidate recommendations received by May 1st will be considered in connection with the Companys next annual meeting of stockholders.
Adoption of Stock Option Grant Administration Guidelines
In February 2007, the Compensation Committee adopted the SYSCO Corporation Stock Option Grant Administrative Guidelines, which set the second Tuesday in November, a date when the Company is typically in a trading window under its Policy on Trading in Company Securities, as the date the Committee will grant stock options each year.  The guidelines also establish timelines for granting stock options related to acquisitions or newly-hired key employees, which require that the Committee generally make the grants within three months of the event.  The guidelines also establish procedures for the Committees action in the event that any of these pre-established dates/time periods conflict with an unanticipated trading blackout period related to material non-public information.   The guidelines provide that the Committee should generally make option grants at a point in time when the Company has publicly disseminated all material information likely to affect the trading price of the Companys common stock.  The Committee will generally not make grants during a period preceding an anticipated event which is likely to cause a substantial increase or a substantial decrease in the trading price of the Companys common stock, such as an earnings release.  The Committee will generally authorize and grant options during normal trading windows.   If the Company has scheduled grants to occur outside of a normal trading window or when the Company is in possession of material non-public information, then:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Exhibit Number
 
 
Description
 
  3.5 
   
   
 
  
   
Bylaws of SYSCO Corporation, as amended and restated on 
May 11, 2007
 
  99.1
   
   
 
  
   
Corporate Governance Guidelines of SYSCO Corporation, as 
amended on May 11, 2007
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
3.5
 
 
Bylaws of SYSCO Corporation, as amended and restated on 
May 11, 2007
 
  99.1
   
   
 
 
Corporate Governance Guidelines of SYSCO Corporation, as 
amended on May 11, 2007

 
1.
  
CERTIFICATES REPRESENTING STOCK; UNCERTIFICATED SHARES
. Shares of stock in the Corporation may be represented by certificates or may be issued in uncertificated form in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended (the General Corporation Law). The issuance of shares in uncertificated form shall not affect shares already represented by a certificate until the certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Every holder of stock in the Corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of, the Corporation by the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation certifying the number of shares represented. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Whenever the Corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class of stock, and whenever the Corporation shall issue any shares of its stock as partly paid stock, the certificates representing shares of any such class or series or of any such partly paid stock shall set forth thereon the statements prescribed by the General Corporation Law. Any restrictions on the transfer or registration of transfer of any shares of stock of any class or series shall be noted conspicuously on the certificate representing such shares.
The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, and may require the owner of any lost, stolen, or destroyed certificate, or his, her or its legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft, or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of any such new certificate or uncertificated shares.
 
2.
  
STOCK TRANSFERS
. Upon compliance with provisions restricting the transfer or registration of transfer of shares of stock, if any, transfers or registration of transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made only on the stock ledger of the Corporation, in accordance with the terms and procedures as outlined in the General Corporation Law.
 
3.
  
RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDERS
. (a)
Meetings; Dividends and Distributions
. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of, or to vote at, any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may, except as otherwise provided herein or required by law, fix a record date which shall not be more than 60 nor less than ten days before the date of any meeting, and shall not be more than 60 days prior to any other action taken, and, in any event, may not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors (i) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of, or to vote at, a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (ii) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
(b)
 
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting (including by electronic transmission as permitted by the General Corporation Law), the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than ten days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors may within ten days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date (unless a record date has previously been fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 3(b)). If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 3(b) or otherwise within ten days after the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to such corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its principal place of business, or any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of stockholders meetings are recorded, to the attention of the Secretary. Delivery shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such action.
 
4.
  
MEANING OF CERTAIN TERMS
. As used herein in respect of the right to notice of a meeting of stockholders or a waiver thereof or to participate or vote thereat or to consent or dissent in writing in lieu of a meeting, as the case may be, the term share or shares or share of stock or shares of stock or stockholder or stockholders refers to an outstanding share or shares of stock and to a holder or holders of record of outstanding shares of stock when the Corporation is authorized to issue only one class of shares of stock, and said reference is also intended to include any outstanding share or shares of stock and any holder or holders of record of outstanding shares of stock of any class upon which or upon whom the certificate of incorporation confers such rights where there are two or more classes or series of shares of stock or upon which or upon whom the General Corporation Law confers such rights notwithstanding that the certificate of incorporation may provide for more than one class or series of shares of stock, one or more of which are limited or denied such rights thereunder; provided, however, that no such right shall vest in the event of an increase or a decrease in the authorized number of shares of stock of any class or series which is otherwise denied voting rights under the provisions of the certificate of incorporation.
 
5.
  
STOCKHOLDER MEETINGS
.
-
Time
. An annual meeting of the stockholders, for the election of directors to succeed those whose terms expire and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, shall be held on the date and at the time and place, if any, or by means of remote communications, if any, fixed by the Board of Directors. A special meeting shall be held on the date and at the time fixed by the Board of Directors.
-
Call
. Special meetings, other than those required by statute, may be called at any time by the Board of Directors acting pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the whole board. The use of the phrase whole board in these bylaws refers to the total number of directors that the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
-
Notice and Waiver of Notice
. Notice of all meetings shall be given in any manner permitted by the General Corporation Law and, if more than one manner is permitted, in the manner elected by the Corporation, and shall state the place, if any, date, and hour of the meeting, and
the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at the meeting
. The notice of an annual meeting shall state that the meeting is called for the election of directors and for the transaction of any other business which may properly come before the meeting. The notice of a special meeting shall in all instances state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. The notice of any meeting shall be given by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, except as otherwise required by the General Corporation Law. Notice shall be deemed to be given at the time prescribed in the General Corporation Law for the manner of notice. Notice shall be deemed to have been given to all stockholders who share an address if notice is given in accordance with the householding rules set forth in Rule 14a-3(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) and Section 233 of the General Corporation Law. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, notice need
not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any, thereof, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at the adjourned meeting are announced
at the meeting
at which the adjournment is taken; provided, however, that if the date of any adjourned meeting
is more than 30 days
after
the date for which the meeting was originally noticed, or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the place, if any, date, and time of the adjourned meeting and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, shall be given in conformity with this Section 5. At any adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting
. Notice need not be given to any stockholder who submits a written waiver of notice or a waiver by electronic transmission before or after the time of the event for which notice is to be given. Attendance of a person at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the stockholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in any waiver of notice. Any previously scheduled meeting of stockholders may be postponed, and any special meeting of stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
-
Stockholder List
. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting in the manner provided by the General Corporation Law. The stockholder list shall also be open to examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting as provided by the General Corporation Law. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the list required by this section or to vote at any meeting of stockholders.
-
Conduct of Meeting
. Meetings of the stockholders shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, or in his or her absence by a person designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of a person so designated, by a chairman to be chosen by the stockholders. The Secretary of the Corporation, or in his or her absence, an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of every meeting, but if neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary is present, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint a secretary of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting
 
shall determine the order of business and the procedure at the meeting, including such regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of discussion as seem in order to the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting to another place, if any, date and time. The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting shall be announced at the meeting
.
-
Proxy Representation
. Every stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him, her or it by proxy in all matters in which a stockholder is entitled to participate, whether by waiving notice of any meeting, voting or participating at a meeting, or expressing consent or dissent without a meeting. Every proxy must be authorized by the stockholder, by the stockholders attorney-in-fact or as otherwise permitted by the General Corporation Law, by an instrument in writing or by a transmission permitted by the General Corporation Law and filed in accordance with the procedure established for the meeting. No proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date unless such proxy provides for a longer period. A duly authorized proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and, if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A proxy may be made irrevocable regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or an interest in the Corporation generally.
-
Inspectors
. The Board of Directors, in advance of any meeting, may, and to the extent required by the General Corporation Law or stock exchange regulations shall, appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof. In case any person who may be appointed as an inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, the Board of Directors may, and to the extent required by the General Corporation Law or stock exchange regulations shall, fill the vacancy by appointment made in advance of the meeting or, if no such appointment is made, the chairman of the meeting shall fill the vacancy at the meeting. Each inspector before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall determine the number of shares of stock outstanding and the voting power of each, the shares of stock represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the validity and effect of proxies, and shall receive votes, ballots or consents, hear and determine all challenges and questions arising in connection with the right to vote, count and tabulate all votes, ballots or consents, determine the result, and do such acts as are proper to conduct the election or vote with fairness to all stockholders. On request of the chairman of the meeting, the inspector or inspectors shall make a report in writing of any challenge, question or matter determined by him, her or them and execute a certificate of any fact found by him, her or them.
-
Quorum
. The holders of thirty-five percent (35%) of the shares entitled to vote shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders for the transaction of any business except where the General Corporation Law provides otherwise.
-
Voting
. Except as may otherwise be provided in the certificate of incorporation, or in a resolution of the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 151 of the General Corporation Law, each share of stock shall entitle the holder thereof to one vote. At each meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present,
each director to be elected shall be elected
by
a
majority
of the votes cast; provided, that if
the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected at such meeting as of the meeting
s record date
, then each director to be elected shall be elected by
a plurality of the votes cast.
For purposes of this section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted for a director must exceed the number of shares voted against that director. If, for any cause, the Board of Directors shall not have been elected at an annual meeting, they may be elected thereafter at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Bylaws.
Any other action shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast except where the certificate of incorporation, bylaws or the General Corporation Law provide otherwise. In the election of directors, voting need not be by written ballot. Voting by written ballot shall not be required for any other corporate action, except as otherwise provided by the General Corporation Law.
 
6.
  
STOCKHOLDER ACTION WITHOUT MEETINGS
. (a)
Written Consent
. Whenever the vote of stockholders at a meeting thereof is required or permitted to be taken in connection with any corporate action, the meeting and vote of stockholders may be dispensed with if all of the stockholders who would have been entitled to vote upon the action if such meeting were held shall consent in writing to such corporate action being taken; or if less than all of said stockholders, but not less than those having at least the minimum voting power required to take corporate action in writing under the provisions of the General Corporation Law, shall consent in writing to such corporate action; provided that prompt notice be given to all stockholders of the taking of such action without a meeting and by less than unanimous written consent.
 
(b)
 
Review of Written Consent
. In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 3(b) or otherwise in accordance with applicable law, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations (each such written consent and related revocation is referred to in this Section 6(b) as a Consent), the Secretary shall provide for the safe-keeping of such Consent and shall conduct such reasonable investigation as he or she deems necessary or appropriate for the purpose of ascertaining the validity of the Consent and all matters incident thereto, including, without limitation, whether stockholders having the requisite voting power to authorize or take the corporate action specified in the Consent have given consent; provided, however, that if the corporate action to which the Consent relates is the election, designation, appointment, removal or replacement of one or more members of the Board of Directors, the Secretary shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of performing the actions of the Secretary under this Section 6(b). For the purpose of permitting the Secretary or the independent inspectors (as the case may be) to perform the functions under this Section 6(b), no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the Secretary or the independent inspectors (as the case may be) certify to the Corporation that the Consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 6(b) represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this Section 6(b) shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any Consent, whether before or after such investigation or certification by the Secretary or the independent inspectors (as the case may be), or to take any other actions including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation.
 
(c)
 
Effectiveness of Written Consent
. Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the written consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days after the date the earliest dated written consent was delivered in accordance with Section 3(b) or otherwise delivered in accordance with applicable law, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in Section 3(b) or otherwise delivered in accordance with applicable law. A telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission consenting to an action to be taken and transmitted by a stockholder or proxyholder, or by a person or persons authorized to act for a stockholder or proxyholder, shall be deemed to be written, signed and dated for the purposes of this Section 6 to the extent permitted by law. Any such consent shall be delivered in accordance with Section 228(d)(1) of the General Corporation Law.
 
7.
  
ADVANCE NOTICE PROVISIONS FOR ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
. Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 7 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 7.
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder such stockholder must have (i) given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation, (ii) if the stockholder, or the beneficial owner on whose behalf any such nomination is made, has provided the Corporation with a Nomination Solicitation Notice (as defined herein), such stockholder or beneficial owner must have delivered a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a percentage of the Corporations voting shares reasonably believed by such stockholder or beneficial holder to be sufficient to elect the nominee or nominees proposed to be nominated by such stockholder, and must have included in such materials the Nomination Solicitation Notice and (iii) if no Nomination Solicitation Notice relating thereto has been timely provided pursuant to this section, the stockholder or beneficial owner proposing such nomination must not have solicited a number of proxies sufficient to have required the delivery of the Nomination Solicitation Notice under this section.
To be timely, a stockholders notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) in the case of an annual meeting, not less than 90 days nor more than 130 days prior to the date of the anniversary of the previous years annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event the annual meeting is scheduled to be held on a date more than 30 days prior to or is delayed by more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the later of the close of business 90 days prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or public announcement of the date of the annual meeting was made and (b) in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public announcement of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever first occurs (and in no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of the meeting commence a new time period for a giving of a stockholders notice under this section). As used herein, the term public announcement refers to disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Services, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
To be in proper written form, a stockholders notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person and (iv) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made (i) the name and record address of such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder or beneficial owner and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such stockholder, (iv) a representation that such stockholder or beneficial owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such stockholder or beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (c) whether such stockholder or beneficial owner has delivered or intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to a sufficient number of holders of the Corporations voting shares to elect such nominee or nominees (an affirmative statement of such intent, a Nomination Solicitation Notice). Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
If the chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
8.
  
STOCKHOLDER PROPOSALS; BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED AT MEETINGS
. At any special meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof). No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of record of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 8 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 8.
In addition to any other applicable requirements (including, without limitation, Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations with respect to matters set forth in this Section 8), for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, (i) such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation, (ii) such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action under the General Corporation Law, (iii) if the stockholder, or the beneficial owner on whose behalf any such proposal is made, has provided the Corporation with a Solicitation Notice (as defined herein), such stockholder or beneficial owner must, in the case of a proposal, have delivered a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporations voting shares required under applicable law to carry any such proposal, and must have included in such materials the Solicitation Notice and (iv) if no Solicitation Notice relating thereto has been timely provided pursuant to this section, the stockholder or beneficial owner proposing such nomination must not have solicited a number of proxies sufficient to have required the delivery of the Solicitation Notice under this section.
To be timely, a stockholders notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 130 days prior to the date of the anniversary of the previous year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event the annual meeting is scheduled to be held on a date more than 30 days prior to or is delayed by more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the later of the close of business 90 days prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public announcement of the date of the annual meeting was first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for a giving of a stockholders notice under this Section 8.
To be in proper written form, a stockholders notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such stockholder and the name and address of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder or beneficial owner and any material interest of such stockholder or beneficial owner in such business, (v) the names and addresses of other stockholders and beneficial owners known by the stockholder or beneficial owner proposing such business to support the proposal, and the class and number of shares of the Corporation's capital stock known to be beneficially owned by such other stockholders and beneficial owners, (vi) a representation that such stockholder or beneficial owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting, and (vii) whether such stockholder or beneficial owner has delivered or intends to deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporations voting shares required to carry the proposal (an affirmative statement of such intent, a Solicitation Notice).
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8, provided, however, that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 8 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business. If the chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman of the meeting shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
 
1.
  
FUNCTIONS AND DEFINITION
. The property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
 
2.
  
QUALIFICATION AND NUMBER
. The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than five nor more than fifteen persons, with the exact number of directors
, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock to elect directors under specified circumstances,
determined from time to time by a majority of the whole board.
The directors
, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any series of preferred stock under specified circumstances
,
shall be divided into three classes as nearly equal in size as practicable. At each annual election, the successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that time shall be elected to hold office for the term of three years to succeed those whose term expires, so that the term of office of one class of directors shall expire in each year. Each director shall hold office for the term for which he is elected or appointed or until his successor shall be elected or qualified, or until his death, removal or resignation. Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors by action of the Board of Directors, may be filled by the Board of Directors at the meeting at which the number of directors is increased, or any subsequent meeting of the directors, by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the stockholders at a meeting called for the purpose of electing directors.
 
3.
  
ELECTION, TERM AND VACANCIES
. Directors who are elected at an annual meeting of stockholders, and directors who are elected or appointed in the interim to fill vacancies and newly created directorships, shall hold office until the term of office of the class to which they are elected or appointed has expired and until their successors have been elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation, removal or death. Any director may resign at any time upon notice given in writing or by electronic transmission to the Corporation. No decrease in the number of authorized directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. Vacancies resulting from the resignation, removal or death of a director may be filled by the vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, although less than a quorum or by the sole remaining director.
 
4.
  
MEETINGS
.
- Time, Place, Call,
and Notice or Waiver of Notice
. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place or places, on such date or dates, and at such time or times as shall have been established by the Board of Directors and publicized among all directors. No call shall be required for regular meetings for which the time and place have been fixed, and no notice of regular meetings shall be required. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a majority of the whole board and shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as they or he or she shall fix. Notice of the place, date and time of each such special meeting shall be given to each director (unless waived by such director) by mailing written notice not less than five days before the meeting or by telephone, facsimile or other electronic transmission not less than 24 hours before the meeting. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting.
-
Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone
. Members of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board or committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
-
Quorum and Action
. A majority of the whole board shall constitute a quorum except when a vacancy or vacancies prevents such majority, whereupon a majority of the directors in office shall constitute a quorum, provided, that such majority shall constitute at least one-third of the whole board. A majority of the directors present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn a meeting to another time and place. Except where the certificate of incorporation, bylaws or the General Corporation Law provide otherwise, the act of the Board shall be the act by vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting, a quorum being present. The quorum and voting provisions herein stated shall not be construed as conflicting with any provisions of the General Corporation Law and these bylaws which govern a meeting of directors held to fill vacancies and newly created directorships on the Board.
5.
 
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
. The Board of Directors shall elect a chairman from among its members to preside at meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board, if present and acting, shall preside at all meetings of the Board. Otherwise, another director chosen by the Board shall preside. The Chairman of the Board shall have such powers and shall discharge all such other duties as are set forth in these bylaws and as the Board of Directors shall prescribe from time to time.
 
6.
 
REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS
. Any and all of the directors may be removed only for cause by the stockholders.
 
7.
 
COMMITTEES
. The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees consisting of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board, shall have and may exercise the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation subject to applicable law and stock exchange regulations, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. In the absence or disqualification of any member of any such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
 
8.
 
BOARD ACTION WITHOUT MEETING
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
 
The Board of Directors shall elect a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Chief Financial Officer, a Secretary, and a Treasurer, and may elect a Vice Chairman thereof, one or more Vice-Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, and Assistant Treasurers, and may elect or appoint such other officers and agents as are desired. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. The Vice Chairman, the President, or any other director chosen by the Board, shall serve in lieu of the Chairman of the Board in the absence, disqualification, death or removal of the Chairman.
Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of election or appointment, each officer shall hold office until the meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor has been elected and qualified or until earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon notice given in writing or by electronic transmission.
The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation, shall be responsible for corporate policy and strategy, and shall report directly to the Board of Directors.
Unless the Board specifies another officer, the President shall be the chief operating officer of the Corporation. The President shall make reports to the Board of Directors and stockholders and perform all such other duties as are incident to his or her office or are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors.
The Chief Financial Officer shall have overall supervision of the financial operations of the Corporation and perform all such other duties as are incident to his or her office or are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors.
 
Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, the Vice Presidents, during the absence or disability of the President, in the order designated by the Board of Directors, shall exercise all the functions of the President. Each Vice President shall have such powers and discharge such duties as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors.
The Secretary shall issue notice of all meetings of stockholders and directors, shall keep minutes of all meetings, shall have charge of the seal of the Corporation and the corporate books, and shall make such reports and perform such other duties as are incident to his or her office, or are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors.
The Assistant Secretaries, in order of their seniority, shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
The Treasurer shall have the custody of all monies and securities of the Corporation and shall keep regular books of account. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation in payment of the just demands against the Corporation or as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Board of Directors from time to time as may be required of him or her, an account of all his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall perform all duties incident to the office or that are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors.
The Assistant Treasurers, in the order of their seniority, shall, in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
In the case of absence or inability to act of any officer of the Corporation and of any person herein authorized to act in his or her place, the Board of Directors may, from time to time, delegate the powers or duties of such officer to any other officer or any director or other person whom it may select.
Vacancies in any office arising from any cause may be filled by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting.
The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it shall deem necessary or expedient, who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors may remove any officer for cause or without cause.
The corporate seal shall be in such form as the Board of Directors shall prescribe. The Corporation seal may be a facsimile seal, if the Board shall so determine.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed, and shall be subject to change, by the Board of Directors.
These bylaws may be amended or repealed and new bylaws may be adopted by the Board of Directors, by the vote of a majority of the whole board, or by the stockholders, by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote.
 
(a)
  
Right to Indemnification
. Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a proceeding), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter an indemnitee), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee, or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than permitted prior thereto), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith; provided, however, that, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this Article VII hereof with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification or advancement, the Corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Any director or officer of the Corporation serving, in any capacity, and any other person serving as a director or officer at (i) another organization of which a majority of the outstanding voting securities representing the present right to vote for the election of its directors or equivalent executives is owned directly or indirectly by the Corporation, or (ii) any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or of any organization referred to in clause (i), shall be deemed to be doing so at the written request of the Board of Directors.
 
(b)
 
Right to Advancement of Expenses
. In addition to the right to indemnification conferred in paragraph (a) of this Article VII, an indemnitee shall also have the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding for which such right to indemnification is applicable in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter an advancement of expenses; provided, however, that, if the General Corporation Law requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such indemnitee, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made only upon the delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking (hereinafter an undertaking), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter a final adjudication) that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Article VII or otherwise.
(c)
 
Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit
. If a claim under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Article VII is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be 20 days, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim. If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that the indemnitee has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the General Corporation Law. In any suit brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the Corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that the indemnitee has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the General Corporation Law. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its directors who are not parties to such action, a committee of such directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its directors who are not parties to such action, a committee of such directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or brought by the Corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Article VII or otherwise shall be on the Corporation.
(d)
 
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
. The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Article VII shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, certificate of incorporation, bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
(e)
 
Insurance
. The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law.
(f)
 
Nature of Rights
. The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred upon indemnitees in this Article VII (i) shall be contract rights based upon good and valuable considerable, pursuant to which an indemnitee may bring suit as if the provisions of this Article VII were set forth in a separate written contract between the indemnitee and the Corporation, (ii) are intended to be retroactive and shall be available with respect to events occurring prior to the adoption of this Article VIII and (iii) shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitees heirs, executors and administrators. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of this Article VII that adversely affects any right of an indemnitee or his or her successors shall be prospective only and shall not limit or eliminate any such right with respect to any proceeding involving any occurrence or alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that took place prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal.
(g)
 
Severabilit
y. If any provision or provisions of this Article VII shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever (i) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article VII shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the provisions of this Article VII (including, without limitation, each such portion of this Article VII containing any such provisions held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(h)
 
Settlement of Claims
. The Corporation shall not be liable to indemnify any indemnitee under this Article VII for any amounts paid in settlement of any proceeding (or part thereof) effected without the Corporations written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, or for any judicial award if the Corporation was not given a reasonable and timely opportunity, at its expense, to participate in the defense of such proceeding.
(i)
 
Subrogation
. In the event of payment under this Article VII, the Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of the indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Corporation effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.
(j)
 
Procedures for Submission of Claims
. The Board of Directors may establish reasonable procedures for the submission of claims for indemnification pursuant to this Article VII, determination of the entitlement of any person thereto, and review of any such determination.
The books and records of the Corporation may be kept outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
All powers, duties and responsibilities provided for in these bylaws, whether or not explicitly so qualified, are qualified by the certificate of incorporation and applicable law.
I, Michael C. Nichols, hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Sysco Corporation adopted by its Board of Directors on May 11, 2007.
/s/ Michael C. Nichols
 
 
 
Secretary
[CORPORATE SEAL]

 
Governance Guidelines
The following guidelines have been approved by the Board of Directors and, along with the Companys charter and Bylaws and the charters and key practices of the Boards committees, provide the current framework for the governance of SYSCO. The Board recognizes that there is an ongoing and energetic debate about corporate governance, and has regularly modified its policies when it believed that the changes were in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The Board will review these principles and other aspects of SYSCO governance annually or more often if deemed necessary, and such reviews may lead to additional modifications. The following are SYSCOs current policies.
1.
 
Functions of the Board
The Board of Directors has a minimum of five scheduled meetings a year at which it reviews and discusses reports by management on the performance of the Company, its plans and prospects, as well as immediate issues facing the Company. In addition to its general oversight of management, the Board and its Committees also perform a number of specific functions, including:
2.
 
Director Qualifications and Selection
Independence
The Board shall have at least a majority of directors who, in the business judgment of the Board, meet the criteria for independence established by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) for continued listing and all other applicable legal requirements. The Board acknowledges, however, that directors who do not meet the NYSEs independence standards also make valuable contributions to the Board and to the Company by reason of their experience and wisdom.
In order for a director to be considered independent under the NYSE rules, the Board must determine that a director does not have any direct or indirect material relationship with SYSCO. The Board has established the following guidelines to assist it in determining director independence in accordance with NYSE rules:
Other Skills and Characteristics of Directors
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee is responsible for reviewing with the Board, on an annual basis, the requisite skills and characteristics new Board members should possess as well as the composition of the Board as a whole. This review will include assessment of the absence or presence of material relationships with the Company that might impact independence, as well as consideration of diversity, age, skills, experience, time available and the number of other boards the member sits on in the context of the needs of the Board and the Company, and such other criteria as the Committee shall determine to be relevant at the time. Nominees for directorships are recommended by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee to the Board in accordance with the foregoing and the policies and principles in its charter. In evaluating the suitability of individual Board members, the Board takes into account many factors, including general understanding of marketing, finance and other elements relevant to the success of a large publicly-traded company in todays business environment, understanding of SYSCOs business on a technical level, and educational and professional background. The Board evaluates each individual in the context of the Board as a whole, with the objective of developing a group that can best perpetuate the success of the business and represent stockholder interests through the exercise of sound judgment using its diversity of experience in these various areas. In determining whether to recommend a director for re-election, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee also considers the directors past attendance at meetings and participation in and contributions to the activities of the Board. The invitation to join the Board should be extended jointly by the Chairman of the Board, the Chair of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the Presiding Director on behalf of the Board.
The Board does not believe it should establish term limits because they hold the disadvan-tage of losing the contribution of directors who have been able to develop, over a period of time, increas-ing insight into the Company and its operations. As an alternative to term limits, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee will review the appropriateness of each directors continuation on the Board every three years. No director shall have tenure rights.
Non-employee directors who materially change the principal occupation or business association held when originally invited to join the Board will offer to voluntarily resign from the Board by tendering a written letter of resignation to the Chairman of the Board or CEO. It is not the sense of the Board that in every instance the directors who retire or change from the position they held when they came on the Board should necessarily leave the Board. The Board, through the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, will review the continued appropriateness of Board membership under the circumstances. Further, a director who is also a corporate officer shall resign from the Board on or before the date that he or she retires from the Company or immediately after such officers employment is terminated or such officers responsibilities or duties are significantly reduced, as the case may be.
 
Service on Other Boards of Directors
 
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the full Board will take into account the nature of and time involved in a directors service on other boards in evaluating the suitability of individual directors and making its recommendations to Company stockholders. Service on boards and/or committees of other for-profit organizations should be consistent with the Companys conflict of interest policies. The Board does not believe that its members should be prohibited from serving on boards and/or committees of other organizations. Nevertheless, directors who are retired from full-time employment should serve on no more than five additional Boards of for-profit organizations and directors who are working full time should serve on no more than three additional Boards of for-profit organizations. Furthermore, directors who are also officers of the Corporation should not sit on more than two additional for-profit company Boards. The Board shall evaluate a directors service on the Boards of not for-profit organizations on a case-by-case basis.
Voting for Directors
The Company has amended its Bylaws to provide for majority voting in uncontested director elections. Majority voting means that directors are elected by a majority of the votes cast - that is, the number of shares voted for a director must exceed the number of shares voted against that director. Any incumbent director who is not re-elected in an election in which majority voting applies shall tender his or her resignation promptly following certification of the stockholders vote. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall consider the tendered resignation and recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject the resignation offer, or whether other action should be taken. The Board shall act on the recommendation within 120 days following certification of the stockholders vote and shall promptly disclose (by press release, filing of a Current Report on Form 8-K and any other public means of disclosure deemed appropriate) its decision regarding whether to accept the directors resignation offer.
3.
 
Director Responsibilities
The property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors. In fulfilling their responsibilities, directors must exercise their independent and informed business judgment to act in what they reasonably believe to be the best interests of the Company. In discharging that obligation, directors are entitled to rely on the honesty and integrity of the Companys senior executives and its outside advisors and auditors. The Company shall at all times maintain directors and officers liability insurance in such amounts and upon such terms as the Board deems appropriate.
Board decisions must be made on the basis of adequate information and after careful and unhurried consideration. Directors are expected to attend Board meetings and meetings of committees on which they serve, and to spend the time needed and to meet as frequently as necessary to properly discharge their responsibilities. Directors are also expected to attend the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Information and data relevant to an understanding of the Companys business and the subjects to be presented at meetings of the Board and its committees will be distributed by the Companys Corporate Secretary in writing to the directors sufficiently in advance of any meeting. Sensitivity of the material or other circumstances may from time to time dictate that certain information is presented only at a meeting. Under normal circumstances, the directors are expected to thoroughly review all meeting materials in advance of a meeting.
In addition to its other responsibilities, the Board will review the Companys long-term strategic plans at least annually and on a continuing basis as needed during the year.
Commencing as of July 1, 2007 (being the first day of the Companys 2008 fiscal year), a Presiding Director will be chosen from the independent directors annually to serve for a one-year term that coincides with the Companys fiscal year, unless the independent directors determine that a longer term is necessary or advisable. Unless otherwise agreed by a majority of the independent directors, the Presiding Director will be chosen as follows: the Presiding Director will initially be the individual then serving as the Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. Thereafter, effective as of the first day of each fiscal year, the position of Presiding Director will rotate among the persons serving as Chairmen of the following committees in the following order: Finance Committee (but only if the Chairman of such committee is independent), Compensation Committee, Audit Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. If the rotation of committee Chairmen set forth above would result in a director serving two consecutive terms as Presiding Director, then following the completion of the first one-year term of such Presiding Director the position shall pass to the next committee Chairman other than such Presiding Director in the order set forth above. If a committee Chairman who is scheduled to become the Presiding Director on the first day of the next fiscal year does not wish to serve as Presiding Director, he or she may provide prior written notice to the Chairman of the Board of Directors prior to the first day of such fiscal year and the position of Presiding Director shall than pass to the next committee Chairman other than such director in the order set forth above. While the Presiding Director shall be chosen in accordance with the provisions set forth above, the service of a committee Chairman as Presiding Director during a fiscal year shall be confirmed by a majority of the independent directors at the last regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Directors before the first day of such fiscal year.
If the Presiding Director wishes to voluntarily resign from such position during his or her term as Presiding Director, such Presiding Director shall give written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board of Directors on or prior to the effective date of such resignation. On the effective date of such resignation, the position of Presiding Director shall automatically pass to the next committee Chairman other than such resigning director in the order set forth above and such new Presiding Director shall serve the remainder of the resigning Presiding Directors term as well as the following full one-year term to which such new Presiding Director would otherwise serve.
The non-employee directors will meet in executive session at every regular Board session. The Presiding Director will preside at such meetings. The name of the Presiding Director and the number of meetings of non-employee directors held will be disclosed in the annual proxy statement. In addition, the independent directors will meet in executive session at least twice annually and the Presiding Director shall preside at such meeting; the Presiding Director will have the authority to call additional meetings of the independent directors as necessary or desirable.
The Presiding Director will establish the agenda for each meeting of non-employee directors and each meeting of independent directors. At the beginning of the year the Presiding Director will establish a schedule of agenda subjects to be discussed during the year (to the degree this can be foreseen). Each non-employee director or independent director, as the case may be, is free to (1) suggest the inclusion of items on the agendas and (2) raise at any such meeting subjects that are not on the agenda for that meeting.
In addition to the matters set forth above, the Presiding Director shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
4.
 
Board Structure and Membership Issues
Board Size
 
It is the current sense of the Board that a size of 10 to 15 is appropriate for the Companys present needs.
Board Committees
The Board will have at all times an Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, a Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a Finance Committee. The Board also currently has an Executive Committee and an Employee Benefits Committee. All of the members of the Audit, Compensation, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees shall be independent directors to the extent required under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and will meet all other applicable legal requirements. All of the members of the Executive Committee shall be independent directors except for the Chief Executive Officer
,
if he is a member of that Committee. Committee members will be appointed by the Board based on the recommendations of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. As every effort is made to match a particular director with a committee or committees that best suits that directors experience, the Board does not believe that rotation of members among committees should be mandated as a policy.
Each of the committees listed below will have its own charter that will be published on the Companys website and will be available to stockholders upon their request. The charters will set forth the purposes, goals and responsibilities of the committees as well as qualifications for committee membership, procedures for committee member appointment and removal, committee structure and operations and committee reporting to the Board. The charters will also provide that each committee will annually evaluate its performance. Committee charters will be reviewed at least annually and updated to the extent necessary or desirable. Each committee will perform its duties as assigned by the Board of Directors in compliance with Company bylaws. These may be described briefly as follows:
The Chairman of each committee, in consultation with the committee members, will determine the frequency of the committee meetings consistent with any requirements set forth in the committees charter. Committee meetings are held in conjunction with regular Board meetings unless circumstances necessitate a special meeting. The Chairman of each committee will present a report of each committee meeting to the full board. The Chairman of each committee, in consultation with the appropriate members of the committee and management, will develop the committees agenda. At the beginning of the year, each committee will establish a schedule of agenda subjects to be discussed during the year (to the degree these can be foreseen). The schedule for each committee will be furnished to all directors.
The Board may, from time to time, establish or maintain additional committees as necessary or appropriate.
5.
 
Director Access to Officers, Employees and Advisors
Directors shall have timely and complete access to any information that they deem necessary to fulfill their responsibilities. Directors shall also have full and free access to officers and employees of the Company. Any meetings or contacts that a director wishes to initiate may be arranged through the CEO or the General Counsel or directly by the director. The directors will use their judgment to ensure that any such contact is not disruptive to the business operations of the Company and will, to the extent appropriate, copy the CEO and General Counsel on any written communications between a director and an officer or employee of the Company. The Board and any of its Committees also have the ability to retain, at the Companys expense, such advisors, including accounting, legal and investment banking advisors, as they reasonably believe necessary or appropriate to fulfill their obligations and responsibilities as directors of the Company.
6.
 
Non-Employee Director Compensation
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee will make recommendations to the Board of Directors with respect to the form, amount and terms of non-employee director and committee member compensation in accordance with the policies and principles set forth in these Guidelines and the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and all other applicable legal requirements. In connection with such recommendations, the Committee may conduct an annual review of director compensation practices at other comparable companies and may engage consultants and advisors to assist it with such review. In discharging this duty, the Committee shall be guided by three goals: compensation should fairly pay non-employee directors for work required in a company of SYSCOs size and scope; compensation should align directors interests with the long-term interests of stockholders; and the structure of the compensation should be simple, transparent and easy for stockholders to understand. In making its determination, the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee shall also consider (i) the impact on directors independence of the amount, form and terms of director compensation, acknowledging that directors independence can be impacted if fees and emoluments exceed what is customary and (ii) whether there is any indirect compensation payable to or benefit conferred or payable to the director by reason of any substantial charitable contributions by the Company to any charitable organization or private foundation with which the director is affiliated, pursuant to any consulting arrangement or otherwise. Non-employee directors may receive discounts on products carried by the Company and its subsidiaries comparable to Company employees. Non-employee directors who serve on the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee or the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee may not receive any compensation from the Company other than compensation received in their capacity as a non-employee director or committee member.
7.
 
Director Orientation and Continuing Education
All new directors must participate in the Companys Orientation Program, which should be conducted within six months of the meeting at which new directors are elected. This orientation will include presentations by senior management to familiarize new directors with the Companys strategic plans, its significant financial, accounting and risk management issues, its compliance programs, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its principal officers, and its internal and independent auditors. In addition, the Orientation Program will include visits to Company headquarters and to at least one of the Companys significant operating companies.
The Company may develop continuing education programs sponsored by the Company throughout the year, including programs addressing legal, financial, regulatory and industry specific topics. Commencing January 1, 2008, directors must satisfy the director education requirement by having attended (which attendance may be at the Companys expense) a director education course accredited by Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) or another corporate governance monitoring group at least once every two years. In addition, directors are encouraged to attend one or more director education seminars accredited by ISS or another corporate governance monitoring group annually at the Companys expense.
8.
 
CEO Evaluation and Management Succession
The Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee will jointly conduct an annual review of the performance of management, particularly the CEO. The Board of Directors will review the Committees report with respect to the CEO in order to ensure that the CEO is providing the best leadership for the Company in the long- and short-term.
The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee should also make an annual report to the Board on succession planning, including policies and principles for CEO succession and performance review, as well as policies regarding succession in the event of an emergency or the replacement of the CEO. The entire Board will work with the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee to evaluate potential successors to the CEO. At least annually, the CEO shall discuss his or her recommendations and evaluations of potential successors, along with a review of any ongoing development plans for such individuals.
9.
 
Annual Performance Evaluation
The Board of Directors will conduct an annual self-evaluation to determine whether it and its committees are functioning effectively. The Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee will receive comments from all directors and report annually to the Board with an assessment of the Boards performance, as well as the performance of individual board members. This will be discussed with the full Board following the end of each fiscal year. The assessment will focus on the Boards contribution to the Company and specifically focus on areas in which the Board or management believes that the Board and its members could improve.
10.
 
External Communications
The Board believes that management speaks and acts for the Company. Individual board members may have the occasion to meet or otherwise communicate with various constituencies of the Company. It is expected that Board members would do this only with managements knowledge and approval and should promptly advise the CEO of the nature and content of any such communication, subject to the protections afforded employees who raise complaints or concerns regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing matters.
 
11.
 
Stock Ownership Requirement
It is clearly in the interest of the Company that the Companys directors and executive officers shall beneficially own shares of common stock of the Company. Accordingly, the Board has established the following requirements:
The three and five year periods above shall begin running when an individual is elected to any of the positions above; provided, however, that if an individual is promoted to a position that requires the ownership of a greater amount of stock within a given time period than his or her prior position, the time period pertaining to the new position shall begin to run upon effectiveness of the promotion; provided, further, however, that the individual shall continue to comply with the ownership requirements applicable to his or her prior position at all times subsequent to the promotion. For example, if an individual is promoted from SVP to EVP after having served three years as SVP, he or she would be required to own stock equal to 10,000 shares at all times during each of the first two years following the promotion (the fourth and fifth years following the hiring as SVP). At the end of the second year following the promotion (expiration of five years from hiring as SVP), he or she would be required to own 20,000 shares. At the end of the fifth year after the promotion, he or she would be required to own 30,000 shares.
 
In addition, each executive officer of the Company is expected to retain 25% of the net shares acquired upon exercise of stock options and 25% of the net shares acquired pursuant to vested restricted stock and restricted stock unit (RSU) grants until the executive officers holdings of Company stock equal or exceed the ownership guidelines applicable to the executive officer. For these purposes, net shares shall mean the shares remaining after disposition of shares necessary to pay the related tax liability and, if applicable, exercise price.
 
c.
 
There may be instances where abiding by these stock ownership guidelines may place an undue hardship on a director or executive officer, although it is anticipated that such instances will be rare. The Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee will make the final decision as to developing an alternative to these stock ownership guidelines for such a director or executive officer that reflects the intent of these stock ownership guidelines and the individuals personal circumstances.
12.
 
Disclosure of these Guidelines
It shall be the responsibility of the Corporate Secretary of the Company to assure that the current version of these Guidelines be posted on the Companys website at http://www.SYSCO.com. The Companys stockholders shall be apprised of the availability of these Guidelines on the Companys website. Any stockholder of the Company may obtain a copy of the Guidelines upon request to the Companys Investor Relations group.
13.
 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
The Company will at all times maintain a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for its employees, officers and directors, including its Chief Executive Officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer or controller. The Board expects directors, as well as the Companys officers and employees, to act ethically at all times and to adhere to the Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.


