FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20071220100259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM
5.02.
DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS;
 
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINICPAL OFFICERS
.
On December 14, 2007, the Board of Directors of SYSCO Corporation (the Company), increased the size of the Board of Directors to twelve members and elected Dr. Hans-Joachim Koerber as a member of the Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2008, on recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee. Dr. Koerber is serving in the class of directors who will stand for re-election to a three-year term at the November 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. Dr. Koerber has been appointed to serve as a member of the Audit and Finance Committees
 
of the Board of Directors. Dr.
 
Koerber will participate in the Companys standard compensation arrangements for non-employee directors, as more particularly described in the Companys 2007 proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Dr. Koerber and any other person pursuant to which Dr. Koerber was elected as a director of the Company. There are no transactions in which Dr. Koerber has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, and Dr. Koerber satisfies the categorical independence standards set forth in the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines, and has been determined by the independent directors of the Board of Directors to be an independent director and to satisfy the requirements for Audit Committee membership. A copy of the press release announcing the election of Dr. Koerber is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
Not applicable.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
Not applicable.
(c) Exhibits.
Exhibit Number
 
Description
99.1
 
 
 
Press Release dated December 19, 2007
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Number
 
Description
99.1
 
 
 
Press Release dated December 19, 2007

SYSCO
 
HOUSTON, December 19, 2007 --
SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced that Hans-Joachim Koerber, Ph.D., has been appointed to the companys Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2008, expanding the size of the Board to 12 members. He will be in the class of directors who will stand for re-election at the November 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and will serve on the Boards Audit and Finance Committees. Dr. Koerber is the former chairman and chief executive officer of METRO Group, a position he held from 1999 until his retirement in October of this year. METRO Group is Germanys largest retailer, operating 2,400 wholesale stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets, department stores and consumer electronics shops throughout the world.
Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCOs chairman and chief executive officer, said, We are very pleased to welcome Dr. Koerber to our board. His experience in expanding METRO outside Germany into Eastern Europe and Asia, including China and India, will serve us well as we look beyond the North American borders to extend our reach internationally.
Dr. Koerber first became involved with the company that would eventually become the METRO Group in 1985, when he joined the predecessor companys cash-and-carry, self-service wholesale trade company in charge of finance and accounting, controlling, logistics and information technology. His responsibilities continued to expand to include international cash-and-carry activities in six countries. When METRO AG was formed in 1996, it was among the 20 largest companies listed on the German stock exchange, and Dr. Koerber became part of the METRO management board, eventually advancing to chairman and chief executive officer of the METRO Group in 1999. He streamlined the company to focus on four of the original 16 business divisions, adopted international accounting standards and rapidly developed METROs international presence with 2,300 stores in 26 countries by 2003, improving the companys profitability in the process.
Dr. Koerber earned a Master Brewer in Brewing Technology and a Ph.D. in Business Management from the Technical University of Berlin. He currently serves on the boards of Air Berlin PLC, Bertelsmann AG and Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB. He is a native of Brunswick, Germany and currently lives in Dusseldorf, Germany with his wife. He has one child.
SYSCO is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. For the fiscal year 2007 that ended June 30, 2007, the company generated more than $35 billion in sales. For more information about SYSCO visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.


