FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20081103081539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 3, 2008, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter ended September 27, 2008 of the fiscal year ending June 27, 2009. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated November 3, 2008 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week first quarter of fiscal 2009 ended September 27, 2008.
HOUSTON, November 3, 2008 
First Quarter Fiscal 2009 Highlights
     "Our operating companies continued to generate impressive results in the midst of a prolonged and difficult business environment," said Richard J. Schnieders, Sysco's chairman and chief executive officer. "We're investing in our business and our people are doing an excellent job executing our business plan. I remain confident our company is well positioned for the long term."
First Quarter Fiscal 2009 Summary
     Sales for the first quarter grew five percent over the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the change in Sysco's cost of goods, was 8.3 percent for the quarter. Operating income for the first quarter grew 11.0 percent over the same period last year. As a percentage of sales, operating income increased 28 basis points to 5.1 percentThe company continued to manage high food cost inflation well, as evidenced by gross profit dollars increasing 5.3 percent while operating expenses grew only 3.4 percent for the period. Diluted EPS increased seven percent from the first quarter of fiscal 2008 to $0.46.
.
     Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 as compared to the prior year period was unfavorably impacted by a net $20.9 million in additional
 
expenses. The additional expenses were partially related to the combined impact of changes in the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) and increased company-sponsored pension expense. These items were partially offset by the impact of prior year provisions related to multi-employer pension plans that were not repeated in the current year and lower current year stock compensation expense, as detailed in the table below:
     In addition, net earnings for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 were unfavorably impacted by a 42.5 percent tax rate for the quarter compared to 38.1 percent in the prior year's first quarter. The primary contributors to this unusually high tax rate were the $22.9 million COLI loss noted above which is not deductible for tax purposes, and a previously unidentified tax contingency arising from a recent tax audit.
     "I'm pleased with our company-wide results, particularly at our Broadline companies," said Ken Spitler, Sysco's president and chief operating officer. "We were able to leverage our sales growth, growing operating income 11 percent despite continued pressure from multiple fronts, including high inflation and the unfavorable impact of additional expenses such as the loss on COLI. Our key business initiatives continue to deliver, and our associates are doing a great job consulting with our customers and helping them succeed in this difficult environment."
Capital Spending
     Capital expenditures totaled $80 million for the first quarter. The primary areas for investments included facility replacements and expansions, construction of fold-out operations and additions to Sysco's fleet. In addition, we completed construction of our new fold-out facility located in East Texas and began shipping product in October 2008. For full year fiscal 2009, the company projects that capital expenditures will be in the range of $675 million to $725 million.
Conference Call & Webcast
     Sysco's first quarter 2009 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, November 3, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. EST. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About Sysco
     Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and
 
other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 180 distribution facilities serving more than 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2008 that ended June 28, 2008, the company generated more than $37 billion in sales. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding the company's ability to leverage in current and future periods, the impact of our customer focus on Sysco's business relationships, the company being well-positioned for the long-term and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to Sysco's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and decreases in consumer spending; increased fuel costs; Sysco's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price, operating results or debt ratio or significantly increase the Company's liquidity requirements; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including those described above. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)
 
(In Thousands)
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.


