FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20080811082006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 11, 2008, SYSCO Corporation ("SYSCO") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended June 28, 2008. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated August 11, 2008 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by SYSCO under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week fourth quarter and 52 weeks of fiscal 2008 ended June 28, 2008.
HOUSTON, August 11, 2008 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2008 Highlights
Fiscal 2008 Highlights
     "For the eighth time in the last ten years  and the eighth quarter in a row  we have generated double digit earnings per share growth. The accomplishment is particularly notable this year as we overcame significant obstacles, including market forces such as prolonged inflation and high fuel costs," said Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman and chief executive officer. "I'm pleased with our operating results in fiscal 2008, and I am encouraged that we leveraged 7.1% sales growth into 13.1% growth in earnings per share while continuing to invest in our business. Key to this performance was solid execution of our business plan, especially in the area of cost containment."
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2008 Summary
     Sales for the fourth quarter grew 5.4% over the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the change in SYSCO's cost of goods, was 6.2% for the quarter. Operating income for the fourth quarter grew 9.7% over the same period last year. As a percentage of sales, operating income increased 22 basis pointsThe company continued to manage high food cost inflation, as evidenced by gross profit dollars increasing 5.6% while operating expenses grew only 4.0% for the period. Diluted EPS increased 12.2% from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 to $0.55.
.
     Operating income for the fourth quarter was unfavorably impacted by a net $16.4 million in additional expenses related to the combined impact of changes in the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance (COLI), increased provisions related to multi-employer pension plans, company-sponsored pension expense and stock compensation expense, as detailed in table 1 below:
 
     "Our Broadline business managed margins and expenses particularly well to produce another strong quarter in a challenging environment," said Ken Spitler, SYSCO's president and chief operating officer. "This would not have been possible without the focus and commitment of our nearly 50,000 associates."
Fiscal 2008 Summary
     Sales for fiscal 2008 grew 7.1% over the prior year. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the change in SYSCO's cost of goods, was 6.0% in fiscal 2008. Operating income grew 10.0% over the prior year as a result of gross profit dollars increasing 6.5% and operating expenses growing 5.3%. As a percentage of sales, operating income increased 13 basis points for fiscal 2008Diluted earnings per share increased 13.1% for fiscal 2008 to $1.81.
.
     Throughout fiscal 2008, SYSCO experienced increased demand for its industry leading business reviews and other customer support services. This appreciation for SYSCO's customer-centered approach, coupled with stringent cost control measures, helped increase operating income to $1.9 billion in fiscal 2008.
     For fiscal 2008, operating income was unfavorably impacted by a net $24.2 million in additional expenses related to the combined impact of changes in the cash surrender value of COLI, increased provisions related to multi-employer pension plans, company-sponsored pension expense and stock compensation expense, as detailed in table 2 below:
     Mr. Schnieders concluded, "Our focus remains on supporting our customers, especially during these difficult times. Our sales and marketing associates continue to find creative business solutions to the many challenges our customers are facing in today's marketplace."
Capital Spending
     Capital expenditures for fiscal 2008 totaled $516 million, below original estimates of $625 million to $650 million. The lower amount spent in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to delays on certain projects that will shift significant expenditures to fiscal 2009. As a result, the company projects that capital expenditures for fiscal 2009 will be in the range of approximately $675 million to $725 million.
     The primary areas for investments in fiscal 2008 included facility replacements and expansions, construction of fold-out operations and additions to SYSCO's fleet. In addition, the new redistribution center in Alachua, Florida, SYSCO's second RDC facility, opened on schedule in April and is currently shipping product to our five operating companies in Florida. In fiscal 2009 the company expects to complete construction of a fold-out facility located in East Texas.
 
Conference Call & Webcast
     SYSCO's fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, August 11, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. EDT. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About SYSCO
     SYSCO is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 180 distribution facilities serving more than 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2008 that ended June 28, 2008, the company generated more than $37 billion in sales. For more information about SYSCO visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding the company's ability to leverage in current and future periods, anticipated fuel expense, the impact of our customer focus on SYSCO's business relationships and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to SYSCO's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and decreases in consumer spending; increased fuel costs; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price, operating results or debt ratio or significantly increase the Company's liquidity requirements; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including those described above. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
Comparative SYSCO Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.
Note: Beginning with the earnings release for the first quarter of fiscal 2008, this information is now presented to include Canadian broadline sales statistics.


