FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20081222081037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
 (e) On December 16, 2008, the Board of Directors (the Board) of Sysco Corporation (Sysco or the Company), upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board, adopted the Eighth Amended and Restated Sysco Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the Plan).  The new Plan is effective June 28, 2008 and replaces the Seventh Amended and Restated Sysco Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the Prior Plan).  With respect to the compensation of Syscos current Named Executive Officers disclosed in the Companys definitive proxy statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 7, 2008, the new Plan is similar to the Prior Plan in all material respects, except as described herein.  Each of the Named Executive Officers participated in the Prior Plan and is currently a participant in the new Plan.
A summary of the material terms and conditions of the Prior Plan, as it relates to the compensation of the Named Executive Officers and other corporate officers, can be found in the Companys proxy statement that was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 7, 2008, under the caption Executive CompensationPension BenefitsSupplemental Executive Retirement Plan, beginning on page 52.  This information is incorporated by reference into this Form 8-K.  Set forth below is a summary of the material differences between the new Plan and the Prior Plan.
Two Benefit Levels
The new Plan provides two levels of benefits to Plan participants:
Participation
All existing participants in the Prior Plan as of June 28, 2008, including the Named Executive Officers, are grandfathered into the new Plan so as to continue their participation in the SERP.  All new participants in Syscos Management Incentive Program (MIP) after June 28, 2008 are eligible to participate in the MIPRP unless the participant holds an officer ranking, as defined in the Plan, and the Committee affirmatively selects the participant for participation in the SERP.
SERP Benefits
With respect to the SERP, the terms of the new Plan are not materially different from the Prior Plan, with the exception of the following:
 
 
- 2 - -
 
MIPRP Benefits
The new Plan establishes the MIPRP as a nonqualified deferred compensation program in which individuals who first become MIP participants after June 28, 2008 are eligible to participate, provided however that the Committee has discretion to exclude an otherwise eligible MIP participant, with exclusionary authority delegated to Syscos CEO or COO, except with respect to executive officers of Sysco.  The material terms of the MIPRP are as follows:
 
 
 
- 3 - -
SECTION 8  OTHER EVENTS
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
On December 22, 2008, Sysco issued a press release (the Press Release), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in the Press Release.
Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Syscos future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the Risk Factors contained in Syscos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits.
 
- 4 - -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
- 5 - -
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
SYSCO CORPORATION COMMENTS ON CURRENT SALES ENVIRONMENT
 
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced that it expects flat to slightly negative year-over-year sales comparisons for its second quarter of fiscal year 2009 which ends December 27, 2008.  Additionally, the company stated that for the second quarter through November it has experienced an approximate $45 million decline in the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance (COLI). These investments, which are used to fund certain of Syscos retirement plans, will continue to fluctuate as the underlying securities are primarily tied to market performance. The amount of the reduction in the COLI cash surrender value is not deductible for tax purposes and is expected to result in a higher effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 as compared to the prior year period.
HOUSTON, December 22, 2008 --
Market conditions have become progressively more difficult in recent weeks, said Richard J. Schnieders, Syscos chairman and chief executive officer. However, our operating companies continue to work closely with our customers and manage their cost structure well. As a result of our continued reinvestment in the business and strong balance sheet, we remain encouraged about our long-term competitive position.
About Sysco
Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 180 distribution facilities serving more than 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2008 that ended June 28, 2008, the company generated more than $37 billion in sales. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at .
www.sysco.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding the company's expected sales performance for the second quarter of fiscal 2009, changes in the cash surrender value of company owned life insurance, the companys anticipated effective tax rate, the operating companies ability to manage costs and the companys long-term competitive position. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to Sysco's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and decreases in consumer spending; increased fuel costs; Sysco's leverage and debt risks; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; competitive conditions; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 


