FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20080128081657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 28, 2008, SYSCO Corporation ("SYSCO") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter ended December 29, 2007 of the fiscal year ending June 28, 2008. SYSCO hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated January 28, 2008 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by SYSCO are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. SYSCO's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in SYSCO's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by SYSCO under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SYSCO Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
      
SYSCO Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week second quarter of fiscal 2008 ended December 29, 2007.
HOUSTON, January 28, 2008 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2008 Highlights
First Half Fiscal 2008 Highlights
     "Sales growth for both the second quarter and the first half of 2008 was in line with our expectations," said Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman and chief executive officer. "These results reflect the increasingly effective support our operating companies are providing our customers such as business reviews and continuing to invest in customer contact personnel in the midst of an extremely challenging business environment. Our customer support helps our customers succeed which benefits us in the short and long term."
Second Quarter Fiscal 2008 Summary
     Sales for the second quarter grew 7.8% over the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the change in SYSCO's cost of goods, was 5.9% for the quarter.
     Operating income for the second quarter grew 6.3% over the same period last year. As a percentage of sales, operating income decreased seven basis pointsThe prevailing market environment was characterized by continued high food cost inflation for the third consecutive quarter. In spite of these conditions, gross profit dollars increased 6.9% while operating expenses grew 7.1% for the period.
.
     Operating expenses for the second quarter were negatively impacted by, among other items, timing differences on share-based compensation and the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance policies. Second quarter results reflect a $5.8 million increase in share-based compensation expense as a result of moving the incentive stock option grant date from the first quarter to the second quarter. In addition, a loss of $2.1 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2008 for the cash surrender value of SYSCO's corporate-owned life insurance policies compared to gains recorded in the second quarter of 2007, resulting in a negative comparison of $11.9 million.
 
First Half Fiscal 2008 Summary
     Sales for the first half grew 8.1% over the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the change in SYSCO's cost of goods, was 5.9% for the first half of fiscal 2008. Operating income grew 10.9% over the same period last year as a result of gross profit dollars increasing 7.1% while operating expenses grew 5.9% for the period. Diluted EPS increased 13.2% to $0.86.
     "We are encouraged by our operating performance for the first half of fiscal 2008 as we were able to leverage our sales growth into over 13% EPS growth," said Richard J. Schnieders, SYSCO's chairman and chief executive officer. "Looking forward, and acknowledging that market and economic conditions may remain difficult for the foreseeable future, we will concentrate our efforts on using our competitive strengths to gain market share by providing our customers with innovative solutions to their business challenges."
Capital Spending
     Capital expenditures totaled $146 million and $278 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2008, respectively. The primary areas for investments included facility replacements and expansions, construction of fold-out operations, additions to SYSCO's fleet and the new redistribution center in Alachua, Florida.
     For the full fiscal year 2008, the company continues to project that capital expenditures will be in the range of $625 million to $650 million, in accordance with plan.
Conference Call & Webcast
     SYSCO's second quarter 2008 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, January 28, 2008 at 10:00 a.m. EST. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About SYSCO
     SYSCO is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. For the fiscal year 2007 that ended June 30, 2007, the company generated more than $35 billion in sales. For more information about SYSCO visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding future growth; and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to SYSCO's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and consumer spending; increased fuel costs; SYSCO's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price, operating results or debt ratio or significantly increase the Company's liquidity requirements; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including those described above. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended June 30, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
Comparative SYSCO Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.
 
Note: Beginning with the earnings release for the first quarter of fiscal 2008, this information is now presented to include Canadian broadline sales statistics.


