FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20081121084611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
 (e) On November 19, 2008, the stockholders of Sysco Corporation (Sysco or the Company) approved the 2008 Cash Performance Unit Plan (the Plan), which was adopted by the Companys Board of Directors (the Board) subject to obtaining stockholder approval and upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board (the Committee).   The Plan is effective for awards issued on or after September 4, 2009 and permits the payment of cash bonuses to certain salaried employees based on the achievement of pre-established performance goals over a performance period of at least three years.  The Plan will expire on September 4, 2013, unless sooner terminated by the Board, and is intended to replace the 2004 Cash Performance Unit Plan, which expires on September 3, 2009.
The material terms of the Plan are summarized below.
Plan Administration
The Committee administers the Plan and establishes performance goals for each period based on any combination of corporate, subsidiary, division or business units.  With respect to covered employees, as defined in Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), the performance goals are restricted to the following criteria:
 
 
 
- 2 - -
 
 
The Committee is also responsible for determining which employees will participate in the Plan, the length of the performance period, which shall be no less than three fiscal years in duration, the payment date for the performance period, the unit value and method for determining the payment amount for each participant and the maximum amount of performance units that may be received by each participant for each performance period.  Eligibility to participate in the Plan is limited to full-time, salaried employees of the Company.
Payments
Payments earned under the Plan will be made in cash no later than four months following completion of the applicable performance period.  The maximum payment in respect of any performance period to be paid to any covered employee shall not exceed 1% of the Companys earnings before taxes for the fiscal year ended immediately prior to the payment date.
Termination of Employment
Generally, a participant must be employed on the last day of a performance period to receive payments under the Plan.  However, a participant is entitled to receive payment for the full performance period if employment is terminated by reason of retirement or disability and is entitled to a pro rata portion of any amounts earned during the performance period if the participant dies prior to the end of performance period.
Change of Control
If a change of control, as defined in the Plan, occurs during a performance period, a participants performance units with respect to such performance period will be considered vested, and payment will be made to the participant within 90 days after the date of the change of control.  Payments will be based on the maximum amount that could be paid assuming the highest level of performance is achieved.
Amendments
The Plan may be withdrawn or amended by the Board or the Committee at any time, unless such withdrawal or amendment may decrease or eliminate a payment that would be made pursuant to a change of control.
Tax Deductibility
The Plan is designed to ensure that any compensation that may be payable under the Plan will qualify as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, and therefore is fully deductible by the Company for federal income tax purposes.
 
- 3 - -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - -
 


