FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20090202081537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 2, 2009, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter ended December 27, 2008 of the fiscal year ending June 27, 2009. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated November 3, 2008 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     Not applicable.
     Not applicable.
     Not applicable.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week second quarter of fiscal 2009 ended December 27, 2008.
HOUSTON, February 2, 2009 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2009 Highlights
First Half Fiscal 2009 Highlights
     "The business environment remains difficult in the short term, as demonstrated by our decline in sales last quarter," said Richard J. Schnieders, Sysco's chairman and chief executive officer. "However, we remain focused on execution and operational excellence, which we believe will strengthen our position within the industry over the long term."
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2009 Summary
     Sales for the second quarter were $9.1 billion, a decrease of one percent compared to the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the change in Sysco's cost of goods, was seven percent for the quarter. Operating income for the second quarter was $422 million, a decrease of six percent over the same period last year. Diluted EPS decreased seven percent from the second quarter of fiscal 2008 to $0.40. Diluted EPS decreased by $0.05 due to the lower cash surrender value of COLI, compared to no change in the same period last year.
     Operating expenses increased $9.5 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 as compared to the prior year period. This increase was impacted by a net $41.7 million increase in certain expenses, as outlined in the table below. The additional expenses were primarily related to the combined impact of changes in the cash surrender value of corporate-owned life insurance (COLI), a charge for a withdrawal from one of the company's multi-employer pension plans and increased company-sponsored pension expense. These items were partially offset by the impact of lower stock compensation expense, as detailed in the table below:
     In addition, net earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 were unfavorably impacted by a 40.4 percent tax rate for the quarter compared to 38.3 percent in the prior year's second quarter. The primary contributor to this high tax rate was the $31.7 million COLI loss noted above, which is not deductible for tax purposes.
First Half Fiscal 2009 Summary
     Sales in the first half of fiscal 2009 were $19.0 billion, an increase of two percent over the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the change in Sysco's cost of goods, was 7.6 percent through the end of the second quarter. Operating income for the first half was $927 million, an increase of 2.5 percent compared to the same period last year. As a percentage of sales, operating income increased two basis points to 4.87 percentThe company continued to manage high food cost inflation well, as evidenced by gross profit dollars as a percentage of sales increasing three basis points compared to the first half last year. Diluted EPS of $0.86 remained flat compared to the same period last year. Diluted EPS was unfavorably impacted by $0.09 due to the lower cash surrender value of COLI, compared to a $0.01 gain in the same period last year.
.
     Operating expenses increased $55 million for the first half of fiscal 2009 as compared to the prior year period. This increase was impacted by a net $62.5
 
million increase in certain expenses, as outlined in the table below. The additional expenses were partially related to the combined impact of changes in the cash surrender value of COLI and increased company-sponsored pension expense. These items were partially offset by the impact of lower stock compensation expense, as detailed in the table below:
     In addition, net earnings for the first half of fiscal 2009 were unfavorably impacted by a 41.5 percent tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2009 compared to 38.2 percent in the prior year's first half. The primary contributor to this high tax rate was the $54.6 million COLI loss noted above, which is not deductible for tax purposes.
     "Though not in line with our historical performance, our results for the quarter were solid given the difficult economic conditions," said Ken Spitler, Sysco's president, chief operating officer and vice-chairman. "Our operating companies continue to execute well and I remain confident about our positioning for the long-term."
Capital Spending
     Capital expenditures totaled $99 million and $180 million for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2009, respectively. The primary areas for investments included facility replacements and expansions, construction of fold-out operations and additions to Sysco's fleet. For full year fiscal 2009, the company projects that capital expenditures will be in the range of $575 million to $625 million.
Conference Call & Webcast
     Sysco's second quarter 2009 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, February 2, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. EST. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About Sysco
     Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 180 distribution facilities serving more than 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2008 that ended June 28, 2008, the company generated more
 
than $37 billion in sales. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding the company's ability to strengthen its position within the industry over the long-term and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to Sysco's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and decreases in consumer spending; increased fuel costs; Sysco's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price, operating results or debt ratio or significantly increase the Company's liquidity requirements; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including those described above. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In Thousands)
 
(In Thousands)
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.


