FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20090504081550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14A-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On May 4, 2009, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter ended March 28, 2009 of the fiscal year ending June 27, 2009. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated May 4, 2009 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week third quarter of fiscal 2009 ended March 28, 2009.
HOUSTON, May 4, 2009 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2009 Highlights
Year-To-Date Fiscal 2009 Highlights
     "We are pleased to have grown operating income during the first nine months of fiscal 2009," said Bill DeLaney, Sysco's chief executive officer. "Our third quarter results reflect the increasingly difficult market environment that has developed as our fiscal year has progressed. Nevertheless, we are encouraged by our operating companies' ongoing ability to provide excellent customer service while managing costs effectively."
Third Quarter Fiscal 2009 Summary
     Sales for the third quarter were $8.7 billion, a decrease of 4.5 percent compared to the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the
 
change in Sysco's cost of goods, was 3.3 percent for the quarter. Operating income for the third quarter was $405 million, a decrease of 3.0 percent over the same period last year. Diluted EPS decreased 5.0 percent from the third quarter of fiscal 2008 to $0.38.
     Operating expenses decreased $85 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 as compared to the prior year period. The decrease in operating expenses was a result of declining payroll expense related to reduced headcount and lower incentive compensation, partially offset by increased bad debt expense. The decrease in operating expenses was also impacted by a net $6.0 million reduction in certain expenses, as outlined in the table below:
     In addition, net earnings for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 were unfavorably impacted by a 40.6 percent tax rate for the quarter compared to 39.2 percent in the prior year's third quarter. The $8.7 million COLI loss for the quarter, which is not deductible for tax purposes, contributed to the high third quarter tax rate.
     "Operating expenses were down 6.5% during the quarter," said Ken Spitler, Sysco's vice-chairman, president and chief operating officer. "We continue to manage through these difficult times by focusing on our core business and supporting our customers."
Year-To-Date Fiscal 2009 Summary
     Sales in the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2009 were $27.8 billion, which was flat compared to the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as estimated by the change in Sysco's cost of goods, was 6.2 percent through the end of the third quarter. Operating income for the first 39 weeks was $1.3 billion, an increase of approximately 1.0 percent compared to the same period last year. Diluted EPS of $1.24 was $0.02 lower than the same period last year. Diluted EPS was unfavorably impacted by $0.11 due to the lower cash surrender value of COLI, compared to a $0.02 unfavorable impact in the same period last year.
     Operating expenses decreased $30 million for the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2009 as compared to the prior year period. The decrease in operating expenses was a result of declining payroll expenses related to reduced headcount and lower incentive compensation, partially offset by increased bad debt expense. This decrease was also impacted by a net $56.6 million increase in certain expenses, as outlined in the table below:
 
     In addition, net earnings for the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2009 were unfavorably impacted by a 41.2 percent tax rate for the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2009 compared to 38.5 percent in the prior year's first 39 weeks. The primary contributor to this high tax rate was the $63.3 million COLI loss noted above, which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Capital Spending
     Capital expenditures totaled $136 million and $315 million for the third quarter and first 39 weeks of fiscal 2009, respectively. The primary areas for investments included facility replacements, expansions, technology, and additions to Sysco's fleet. For full year fiscal 2009, the company projects that capital expenditures will be in the range of $500 million to $550 million. Additionally, during the third quarter, the company completed its stock repurchase program for fiscal year 2009.
Conference Call & Webcast
     Sysco's third quarter 2009 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, May 4, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. EST. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About Sysco
     Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 180 distribution facilities serving more than 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2008 that ended June 28, 2008, the company generated more than $37 billion in sales. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding the company's ability to control costs and manage through difficult times and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to Sysco's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic
 
environment and decreases in consumer spending; increased fuel costs; Sysco's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price, operating results or debt ratio or significantly increase the Company's liquidity requirements; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by COLI, pension expense, and option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including those described above. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In Thousands)
 
(In Thousands)
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)


