FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20090810081535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14A-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 10, 2009, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended June 27, 2009. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated August 10, 2009 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week fourth quarter and 52 weeks of fiscal 2009 ended June 27, 2009.
HOUSTON, August 10, 2009 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2009 Highlights
Fiscal 2009 Highlights
     "The fiscal year results reflect the impact of effective cost management throughout the organization and our committed associates who deliver outstanding service to our customers," said Bill DeLaney, Sysco's chief executive officer. "Although market conditions remain difficult, Sysco's industry leadership position remained strong during fiscal 2009 and should further improve when the economy recovers."
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2009 Summary
     Sales for the fourth quarter were $9.1 billion, a decrease of 6.6% compared to the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as measured by the change in Sysco's cost of goods, was 0.5% percent for the quarter. Sales from acquisitions (less than 12 months) increased sales by 0.6%. The impact of changes in Canadian exchange rates for the quarter reduced sales by 1.3%.
 
     Operating income for the fourth quarter was $540 million, a decrease of 3.3% over the same period last year. Diluted EPS decreased 3.6% from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 to $0.53. Diluted EPS was favorably impacted by $0.03 due to the higher cash surrender value of COLI, compared to no COLI-related impact in the same period last year.
     Operating expenses decreased $120 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 as compared to the prior year period. The decrease in operating expenses was primarily a result of declining payroll expense related to reduced headcount and lower incentive compensation, partially offset by increased bad debt expense. The decrease in operating expenses was also impacted by a net $36 million reduction in certain expenses, as outlined in the table below:
Fiscal 2009 Summary
     Sales for fiscal 2009 were $36.9 billion, down 1.8% compared to the prior year. Food cost inflation, as measured by the change in Sysco's cost of goods, was 4.7% for the fiscal year. Sales from acquisitions (less than 12 months) increased sales by 0.1%. The impact of changes in Canadian exchange rates for the fiscal year reduced sales by 1.2%.
     Operating income for fiscal 2009 was $1.9 billion, down less than 1% compared to the prior year. Diluted EPS of $1.77 was 2.2% lower than in the prior year. Diluted EPS was unfavorably impacted by $0.07 due to the lower cash surrender value of COLI, compared to a $0.01 unfavorable impact in the same period last year.
     Operating expenses decreased $151 million for fiscal 2009 as compared to the prior year. The decrease in operating expenses was principally a result of declining payroll expenses related to reduced headcount and lower incentive compensation, partially offset by increased bad debt expense and a net $21 million increase in certain expenses, as outlined in the table below:
 
     Net earnings for fiscal 2009 were unfavorably impacted by a 40.4% tax rate for fiscal 2009 compared to 38.3% in the prior year. The primary contributors to this high tax rate were additional provisions for tax contingencies and the $44 million COLI loss noted above, which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Capital Spending
     Capital expenditures totaled $150 million and $465 million for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2009, respectively. The primary areas for investments included facility replacements and expansions, technology, and additions and replacements to Sysco's fleet. Looking forward, the company projects fiscal 2010 capital expenditures will be in the range of $600 million to $650 million.
Conference Call & Webcast
     Sysco's fourth quarter 2009 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, August 10, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. EST. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About Sysco
     Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 186 distribution facilities serving approximately 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2009 that ended June 27, 2009, the company generated more than $36 billion in sales. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding the company's ability to improve its industry position and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact these statements include risks that pertain to Sysco's business, including the risks relating to the foodservice distribution industry's relatively low profit margins and sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and decreases in consumer spending; increased fuel costs; Sysco's leverage and debt risks; the successful completion of acquisitions and integration of acquired
 
companies as well as the risk that acquisitions could negatively impact the Company's stock price, operating results or debt ratio or significantly increase the Company's liquidity requirements; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; construction schedules; management's allocation of capital and the timing of capital purchases such as fleet and equipment; competitive conditions; labor issues; risks related to the Company's implementation of its enterprise wide integrated software project, including the risk that the project may not be successfully implemented or may not prove cost effective; and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses. Earnings are also impacted by COLI, pension expense, and option expensing, which is based on certain assumptions regarding the number and fair value of options granted, resulting tax benefits and shares outstanding. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including those described above. For a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from those described in the forward-looking statements, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 28, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)
 
(In Thousands)
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.


