FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20090910072604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
SECTION 5  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
On September 8, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Sysco Corporation (the "Company" or "Sysco") appointed Robert C. Kreidler to serve as the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective October 5, 2009. William J. DeLaney, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer until October 5, 2009.
Prior to joining Sysco, Mr. Kreidler, age 45, served as Chief Financial Officer of C&S Wholesale Grocers, a privately-held food wholesaler, from February 2007 through March 2009. Between December 2003 and February 2007, he served as Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Treasurer for Yum! Brands, Inc., a restaurant company with worldwide operations.
Mr. Kreidler will receive an annual base salary of $500,000. Effective on his hire date, he will become a participant in the Sysco Management Incentive Plan ("MIP") and will be eligible for a prorated bonus as a MIP participant for fiscal 2010. In November 2009, in conjunction with the regular long-term incentive grants to MIP participants, Mr. Kreidler will receive awards representing 240% of his annual base salary as follows:
At the Company's next scheduled meeting of the Board's Compensation Committee, Mr. Kreidler will also receive a one-time grant of 5,000 Restricted Stock Units subject to three-year annual vesting and 75,000 stock options subject to five-year annual vesting.
As a MIP participant, Mr. Kreidler will also be eligible to participate in the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, the Disability Income Plan and additional group life and accident, death and dismemberment benefits. In fiscal 2011, he will be eligible to participate in the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. Sysco will also reimburse Mr. Kreidler for certain expenses incurred in moving, including up to 12 months rent in Houston and a portion of his loss, if any, on the sale of his current home. Any direct reimbursements to Mr. Kreidler on which federal taxes are due will be increased by 35%.
 
.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01 EXHIBITS.
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
     ,  Sysco announced today that R. Chris Kreidler will join the company as executive vice president and chief financial officer. Kreidler, formerly executive vice president and CFO at C&S Wholesale Grocers, will join Sysco on October 5, 2009, and assume the CFO responsibilities from Sysco's chief executive officer, Bill DeLaney. DeLaney has carried both titles since the board of directors appointed him CEO in March of this year.
HOUSTON, TX
September 10, 2009
     Prior to joining C&S  the second largest US food wholesaler and one of America's largest private companies  in 2007, Kreidler was a senior finance executive at Yum! Brands, Inc. He joined the company's predecessor, PepsiCo, in 1996 and progressed through increasingly responsible finance roles, culminating in his position as senior vice president, corporate strategy and treasurer, in which he had global responsibility for strategy, treasury, M&A, and risk management.
     "Chris brings us a wealth of food industry finance experience," said DeLaney. "His broad-based financial background will complement the capabilities of our management team and better position Sysco to capitalize on future opportunities."
     Prior to joining Yum!, Kreidler worked in various investment and finance roles including seven years as an investment banker at Dallas-based Mesa Limited Partnership. Kreidler earned an undergraduate degree and an MBA from Rice University. He and his wife, Karen, have a young daughter and will relocate to the Houston area.
About Sysco
     Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 186 distribution facilities serving approximately 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2009 that ended June 27, 2009, the company
 
generated more than $36 billion in sales. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.


