FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20091102081053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On November 2, 2009, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter ended September 26, 2009 of the fiscal year ending July 3, 2010. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated November 2, 2009 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 27, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week first quarter ended September 26, 2009.
HOUSTON, November 2, 2009 
First Quarter Fiscal 2010 Highlights
     "I am pleased with our solid operating performance this quarter," said Bill DeLaney, Sysco's chief executive officer. "In the midst of what continues to be an extremely challenging business environment, our operating companies managed expenses extraordinarily well. Our sales decline was largely caused by the impact of reduced consumer spending experienced by much of our customer base, as well as significant food cost deflation. Looking forward, we are encouraged by the stabilization of our volume trends in recent weeks and we remain committed to supporting our customers through this most difficult period in our industry's history."
First Quarter Fiscal 2010 Summary
     Sales for the first quarter were $9.1 billion, a decrease of 8.1% compared to the same period last year. Food cost deflation, as measured by the estimated change in Sysco's cost of goods, was 3.4% percent for the quarter. Sales from acquisitions
 
(within the last 12 months) increased sales by 0.6%. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates for the quarter reduced sales by 0.5%.
     Operating expenses declined $132 million, or 9.5%, for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year period. The decrease in operating expenses was primarily a result of declining payroll expense related to reduced headcount and lower incentive compensation, as well as a change in the value of COLI. These expense declines were partially offset by an increase in pension expense related to the company-sponsored pension plan, which was higher in the first quarter due to the impact of a market-related reduction in asset values underlying the plan. As a result, operating income fell 1.5% to $497 million during the first quarter.
     Net earnings for the first quarter were $326 million, an increase of $49 million, or 17.8%, and diluted EPS was $0.55, an increase of $0.09, or 19.6%, compared to the prior year period. In addition to the items noted above, these results were favorably impacted by a one-time tax benefit related to the company's IRS settlement. The tax gain combined with non-taxable COLI gains favorably impacted the effective tax rate for the first quarter.
     The impact of COLI, the IRS settlement and company-sponsored pension expense on Sysco's results of operations is outlined in the table below:
Capital Spending
     Capital expenditures totaled $109 million for the first quarter. The primary areas for investments included facility replacements and expansions, technology, and additions and replacements to Sysco's fleet. Looking forward, the company projects fiscal 2010 capital expenditures will be in the range of $600 million to $650 million.
Conference Call & Webcast
     Sysco's first quarter fiscal 2010 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, November 2, 2009 at 10:00 a.m. EST. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
About Sysco
     Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes
 
equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 186 distribution facilities serving approximately 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2009 that ended June 27, 2009, the company generated more than $36 billion in sales. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at www.sysco.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
     
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding the apparent stabilization of volume trends and projections regarding capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Those risks and uncertainties that could impact sales volume include risks relating to sensitivity to general economic conditions, including the current economic environment and decreases in consumer spending; the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise; and labor issues. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including the timing and successful completion of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending. For a discussion of additional factors impacting Sysco's business, see the Company's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended June 27, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In Thousands)
 
(In Thousands)
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.


