FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20101027083037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
 
On October 26, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Sysco Corporation (Sysco or the Company) adopted a new compensation policy related to the reimbursement of executive relocation expenses by the Company (Reimbursement Policy).  The Reimbursement Policy is effective immediately with respect to all future agreements and applies to the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, all of the Companys Executive Vice Presidents and any other officer of the Company designated as a Named Executive Officer for purposes of the proxy statement filed in connection with the Corporations Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Executives).  
 
The Reimbursement Policy provides that the Company will not reimburse any of such Executives for any loss on the sale of the Executives house sold in connection with the Executives relocation. 
 
The Reimbursement Policy also provides that only certain pre-approved relocation expenses will be eligible for increased payments to cover all applicable taxes on the reimbursed amounts (i.e. state and federal income taxes, FICA, and Medicare taxes).  The relocation expenses subject to such increased payments to cover applicable taxes will be limited to the cost of moving the Executives household goods and vehicles; real estate fees incurred in selling the Executives residence; closing costs associated with the purchase of a new residence, including cost of credit reports, mortgage and deed taxes, recording fees and title search, title insurance, surveys (if required) and reasonable attorneys fees; and up to six months rental expense for a temporary residence in the area to which the Executive has been ask ed to relocate. No other relocation expenses will be eligible for increased payments to cover applicable taxes.
 
Finally, the Reimbursement Policy provides that all future relocation agreements with any Executive will include a clawback provision that requires the Executive to reimburse the Company for all or a part of the reimbursement if their employment is terminated for any reason other than death, disability or change of control of the Company, or termination without cause or for good reason, within a specified amount of time after receiving the reimbursement.
 
 
- 2 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 


