FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20100205113619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
N/A
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
Resignation of Kenneth F. Spitler from the positions of President, Chief Operating Officer, Vice Chairman of the Board and Director
On February 3, 2010, Sysco Corporation (the Company) received notice from Kenneth F. Spitler, President and Chief Operating Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board, of his intention to resign from these positions and as a director of the Company, effective February 5, 2010.  Mr. Spitler is expected to continue as a non-executive employee of the Company through his retirement on June 28, 2010, and he will provide such services during the remainder of his employment as may reasonably be requested.
Transition and Early Retirement Agreement between Mr. Spitler and the Company
In connection with his resignation, on February 5, 2010, the Company and Mr. Spitler agreed in principle upon the terms of a transition and early retirement agreement (the Retirement Agreement), which is expected to be signed next week and will become effective 8 days after signing.  The material terms of the Retirement Agreement are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - -
 
 
 
 
As of the termination of Mr. Spitlers Severance Agreement, the Company is no longer party to severance agreements with any of its executive officers.
Appointment of William J. DeLaney to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer
William J. DeLaney, Chief Executive Officer, will assume the position of President and Chief Executive Officer, effective February 5, 2010.  Mr. DeLaneys annual salary and compensation package will not change as a result of his new position.
Mr. DeLaney, age 54,became a director of the Company on January 17, 2009 and was promoted to the role of Chief Executive Officer on March 31, 2009.  He began his career with the Company in 1987 as assistant treasurer at the Companys corporate headquarters. He was promoted to Treasurer in 1991, and in 1993 he was named a Vice President, continuing in those responsibilities until 1994. Mr. DeLaney joined Sysco Food Services of Syracuse in 1996 as Chief Financial Officer, progressed to Senior Vice President in 1998 and Executive Vice President in 2002. In 2004, Mr. DeLaney was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Sysco Food Services of Charlotte. He held that position until December 2006, when he was named Senior Vice President of Financial Reporting, a position he held until he was promoted to the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on July 1, 2007.
 
 
- 3 - -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 - -
 


