FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20100831162003.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
Modification of Robert C. Kreidlers Relocation Reimbursement Arrangement
On August 26, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Sysco Corporation (Sysco or the Company) approved a modification to its relocation reimbursement arrangement with Robert C. Kreidler, the Companys Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and authorized the Company to reimburse to Mr. Kreidler up to 50% of the first $500,000 of any loss he incurs on the sale of the house he lived in prior to moving to Houston, Texas to join Sysco, plus 100% of the next $250,000 of any loss he incurs on the sale of his house.  Any portion of the reimbursement to Mr. Kreidler that is subject to federal income tax would be increased by 35% to mitigate the impact of federal taxes.  Mr. Kreidler sold his prior home in August 2010, and pursuant to the terms of the new a rrangement, he will be reimbursed approximately $380,000, plus any applicable tax-related increase.
In connection with his offer to join the Company, the Company had previously agreed to, among other things, reimburse Mr. Kreidler for certain expenses in moving, including reimbursement for up to 50% of any loss on the sale of his house, up to $250,000 total reimbursement, plus a 35% increase for any direct reimbursements to Mr. Kreidler on which federal taxes are due.  The terms of the original agreement with Mr. Kreidler, which remain in effect except as modified as described above, are described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 10, 2009, which is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 5.05 AMENDMENTS TO THE REGISTRANTS CODE OF ETHICS, OR WAIVER OF A PROVISION OF THE CODE OF ETHICS.
Adoption of Two New Codes of Conduct
On August 27, 2010, Sysco adopted two new Codes of Conduct, one for officers and employees (the Associates Code) and the other for non-employee directors.  These new codes replace Syscos previous Code of Business Conduct for directors, officers and employees in its entirety.  The previous Code was filed as Exhibit 14.1 to Syscos Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 19, 2007.  The Associates' Code is filed herewith as Exhibit 14.1.
The provisions of the Associates Code that apply to Syscos principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and controller, and persons performing similar functions, and which constitute Sysco's code of ethics as defined Item 406(b) of Regulations S-K, have been revised to reflect a more principles-based approach.  Bright-line rules and numerical limits and thresholds have generally been eliminated in favor of rules intended to foster more thoughtfulness about the relevant facts and circumstances.  The new Associates Code also reflects Syscos adoption of more detailed, separate policies regarding various compliance areas, and a general restructuring of its compliance and Code oversight programs.  The Associates Code has als o been revised to enhance overall readability and understanding and to emphasize Syscos internal policy that all Sysco associates should always do the right thing, and is accompanied with learning aids such as frequently asked questions and examples.  Notwithstanding these changes, the overriding ethical principles underlying each provision of the prior code of ethics remain substantively unchanged. 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
SECTION 8  OTHER EVENTS
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
Approval of New Share Repurchase Program
On August 27, 2010, the Board of Directors of Sysco approved a 20-million-share repurchase program.  The approved program is Sysco's sixteenth share repurchase program since fiscal 1992. Sysco's previously approved 20-million-share repurchase program from September 2008 has approximately 2.2 million shares remaining. These remaining shares will be repurchased prior to the initiation of the new program. Under the new repurchase program, shares will be acquired in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions at the Company's discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors, and in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. The Company may use 10b5-1 plans from time to time in connection with its repurchases.  Syscos current intent is to manage the share repurchase program in order to keep the number of diluted shares outstanding relatively constant by offsetting benefit plan share and option issuances.
Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding future decisions related to share repurchases and Syscos goal of keeping the number of diluted shares outstanding relatively constant. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. The amount of shares repurchased in a given period and the timing of any repurchases are subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, the trading price of Sysco common stock, available cash and our general working capital needs at the time. Sysco's business is also subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those risk factors detailed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 3, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
.
SECTION 9 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
ITEM 9.01 EXHIBITS.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
Not applicable.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
Not applicable.
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
 
(c) Shell Company Transactions.
Not applicable.
(d) Exhibits.
 
- 4 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 -
 

EXHIBIT 14.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Sysco Associates,
 
At Sysco, the basis for our Code of Conduct is a simple one:  For over 40 years, Syscos business has been built upon the values of honesty, integrity and quality relationships with our associates, customers, suppliers, vendors, shareholders and communities.  Relationships require a strong foundation of mutual trust and understanding that is nurtured day after day.  That trust is earned, not just by following the letter of the law, but also by striving to do the right thing.
Do the right thing.
 
This Code of Conduct is based on these values and contains the fundamental principles of how Sysco conducts business.  It makes clear that all associates are expected to understand and appreciate the ethical considerations of their decisions and reaffirms our long-standing commitment to a culture of corporate and individual accountability and responsibility.  From a business perspective, doing the right thing means following our Code, speaking up, getting advice and complying with the law.  There is no way to provide rules of conduct that will apply to every possible situation.  We have established a broad, principles-based Code of Conduct which sets minimum goals and provides guidelines to cover the most common and most sensitive situations.  Remember that Sys co has many other policies and rules that help us do the right thing, and that all of us are responsible for being familiar with all of the policies and rules that apply to our job duties.  For situations not specifically included in this Code, or in Syscos other policies and rules, we still expect that Sysco and its associates will try to do the right thing.
 
Supporting our culture, the Code encourages and provides a variety of ways for you to report suspected or potential violations and no one who reports a suspected violation in good faith will be subject to retaliation. Please carefully read this Code of Conduct, discuss any questions that you may have with your supervisor and retain the Code for future use.
 
Sincerely,
 
William J. DeLaney
President & Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Code of Conduct has been adopted by Syscos Board of Directors and applies to (1) Sysco Corporation, (2) its operating companies, subsidiaries, divisions and affiliated companies and (3) all associates (including officers) of Sysco, regardless of where they are located.  Throughout this Code, the term Sysco is used to refer to Sysco Corporation, its operating companies, subsidiaries, divisions and affiliated companies.
 
It is important that you read and understand this Code, as well as all FAQs and other interpretive and training materials provided to you in connection with the Code.  As a member of the Sysco team, you must understand your individual responsibility to comply with this Code, Syscos policies and the law wherever you are.
 
 
 
 
 
Always do the right thing.  At Sysco, we want to ensure ethical conduct, and everyone is expected to:
 
 
 
 
 
Please note that the Code is not intended to cover every applicable law or policy or provide answers to all questions that might arise.  You must rely on your sense of what is right, including a sense of when it is appropriate to seek guidance regarding the proper course of conduct.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sysco values its reputation for complying with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations in the conduct of its business.  While acting on behalf of Sysco, we must at all times obey all applicable federal, state and local governmental laws, rules and regulations.  This includes compliance with the laws of all countries where Sysco does business, including laws prohibiting bribery and corruption.  You should also avoid engaging in any conduct that, even though legally permissible, is inconsistent with Syscos ethical principles.  If any portion of the Code conflicts with applicable law, the law controls.  If there is any uncertainty about what is required or is prohibited by any law, rule or regulation, please seek guidance from Syscos Legal Department.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sysco often refers to its employees as associates and considers them its most important asset.  We respect the human rights and the dignity of all associates and treat them fairly and honestly.  As part of this commitment, we maintain a safe, secure and healthy workplace for all of our associates.  We also expect our associates to treat each other fairly and honestly, with dignity and respect.
 
Sysco is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to an environment free from discrimination.  We are committed to a policy of promoting equal opportunity in all aspects of employment, including recruitment, hiring, job assignment, training, discipline, scheduling and promotions.  We also believe that associates have the right to work in an environment free from verbal or physical harassment, intimidation, exploitation or violence on account of race, sex, religion, color, national origin, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status or any other category or classification protected by law.  Discrimination, harassment, intimidation, exploitation and violence will not be tolerated.  Further, we do not retaliate against associates who, in good faith, raise concerns about discrimin ation or harassment in the workplace.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are committed to maintaining a workplace that is free from the effects of illegal use or misuse of drugs and alcohol.  Such activities threaten our ability to serve our customers and compromise the safety of our associates, products and services.  Sysco will not tolerate any illegal use or misuse of drugs or use of alcohol while associates are engaged in Sysco business or while working at a Sysco location, except for reasonable alcohol consumption at a Sysco sponsored event.  All associates are subject to screening, and to periodic and random drug and alcohol testing, in accordance with applicable law.
 
 
 
 
In all of your business dealings with customers, suppliers, vendors and competitors, you must:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antitrust laws regulate contact with Syscos competitors, as well as conduct with suppliers, vendors and others.  If your job duties involve contact with any of Syscos competitors, suppliers or customers, or if you have reason to believe that your activities may otherwise be affected by antitrust laws, you are expected to be familiar with and adhere to Syscos Guide to Antitrust Compliance.  If there are any questions regarding contacts with Syscos competitors, contact the Sysco Legal Department.
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
In order to keep current with developments in our industry, we have a responsibility and a right to obtain information about other companies, including our competitors.  We obtain this information through ethical and legal means  such as public conferences and documents, internet research, magazines, trade journals, and other published and written information.  Appropriately obtained market information may be discussed with customers, suppliers and vendors in the normal course of business.  We never seek information through illegal, improper or inappropriate means, such as hacking into restricted-access websites or computer systems, burglary, spying or wiretapping.
 
We respect the proprietary information and trade secrets of others, including our competitors.  We never solicit or knowingly accept information that would violate any duties that a Sysco associate owes to his or her former employer to keep information confidential.
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
All associates are expected to protect Syscos assets and ensure their efficient use in the manner intended.  Theft, carelessness and waste have a direct impact on Syscos profitability.  Sysco assets should only be used for legitimate business purposes; do not use Sysco assets for your personal benefit or the benefit of anyone other than Sysco.  Any suspected incident of fraud or theft must be immediately reported for investigation.  Corporate associates should provide reports of suspected incidents of fraud or theft to Syscos Controller or Assistant Controller.  Operating company associates should provide such reports to their company president or chief financial officer, who will notify Syscos Controller or Assistant Controller.
 
The obligation to protect Syscos assets includes confidential and proprietary information, which are valuable Sysco assets.  This includes pricing and cost information, business processes and procedures, financial information, future business plans, trade secrets and information regarding customers, suppliers and vendors.  Confidential information also includes information that has been given to Sysco to use and protect as part of business agreements, such as confidential or proprietary information belonging to our customers, suppliers and vendors.
 
Confidential information should only be shared with those people who are authorized to see it and who need the information in order to perform work for Sysco.  Confidential information must not be shared with anyone outside of Sysco unless (1) they have a legitimate business relationship with Sysco, (2) they need to know the information in order to conduct business with us, and (3) such disclosure is not prohibited by law or by an agreement with a third party.  Inappropriate or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information may damage our business and the business of our customers, suppliers and vendors.  You should take care to prevent unauthorized disclosure.  Unauthorized disclosure is a violation of Sysco policy and, in some cases, may also violate the law.  Unauthorized disclosu re could also result in fines, penalties or legal action against Sysco or the individuals involved.
 
Sysco respects privacy and protects personal information.  You are expected to protect any personal information you may have access to that belongs to or relates to current and former associates, members of Syscos Board of Directors, customers, job applicants, online users, and Syscos various business partners.  You must never seek out or use any such personal information unless you have both (1) a legitimate business purpose and (2) a legitimate need to know.  If your job involves handling private information, you are expected to be familiar with and comply with all relevant privacy laws and related Sysco compliance policies, including our Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Policy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accurate record keeping is critical.  We have a responsibility to report all business information in a timely and accurate manner, and federal law requires us to create and maintain accurate books and records.  This includes not only financial accounts, but other records such as hours worked, expense reports, shipping and receiving data, and benefits information.  Ensuring accurate and complete business and financial records is everyones responsibility, and is not just the responsibility of Syscos accounting, finance, human resources and payroll personnel.  Accurate recordkeeping and reporting reflects on Syscos reputation and credibility and ensures that Sysco meets its legal and regulatory obligations.  Information (whether stored in writing or electronically) must not be falsified or concealed under any circumstance.  Federal recordkeeping laws require more than not falsifying records.  Sysco also has a duty to ensure that its records are complete and contain enough information for someone else to later determine the nature of the transactions recorded.  We must all do our part to make sure that this duty is satisfied.
 
Federal law also requires us to make sure that all transactions and company expenditures are properly authorized, no matter how small or seemingly insignificant the transaction or expenditure may be.  This means you must not make any agreements or spend funds on behalf of Sysco without proper authority.  It is also important that our records show that all such transactions and expenditures were in fact properly authorized.
 
 
 
8
 
 
You are obligated to cooperate fully with our internal and external auditors.
 
More information about federal recordkeeping requirements is contained in our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Compliance Policy (FCPA Policy).  More detailed information about our internal controls is contained in our Financial and Accounting Methods Manual.
 
As a public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Sysco is required to file documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  Sysco is also subject to requirements regarding the disclosure of material developments to the public in an accurate and timely fashion.  As a result, Sysco and its associates must ensure full, fair, accurate, timely, and understandable disclosure in reports and documents that Sysco files with, or submits to, the SEC and in other public communications made by or on behalf of Sysco.
 
 
 
 
 
Business records and documents will be retained and destroyed in accordance with Syscos records retention policies, as well as the policies and regulatory requirements of your department.  You must follow Syscos records retention policies and your departments policies and requirements to ensure that Sysco complies with its legal obligations related to company records.
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
You may learn of important information about Sysco before such information has been disclosed to our public investors.  Some of that information may be considered material because a reasonable investor would consider it important to his or her decision to buy or sell Sysco securities, or to a decision about how to vote any Sysco stock he or she may own.  Securities include common stock, restricted stock units, options, put, calls, notes, debentures and any other debt or equity securities.  Examples of material information may include earnings information, strategic business plans, plans for significant acquisitions or divestitures, stock splits, major management changes and changes in dividend rates.  In the course of your job duties, you might also learn material inform ation about other companies (potential acquisition targets, for example).
 
It is a violation of this Code for any Sysco associate to buy or sell Sysco securities (such as shares of Sysco stock), or the securities of Syscos existing or potential business partners, while in possession of material inside information relating to Sysco or its business partners, except to the extent specifically permitted by Syscos Policy on Trading in Company Securities. In fact, in most instances, it is illegal for anyone to buy or sell securities on the open market based on material inside information or to pass this information on to someone else who then buys or sells securities on the open market.
 
To reduce the chance of disclosing what may be material inside information, you should take care in discussing Sysco business in casual conversation or in public places.  For additional information about the appropriateness of trading a security under these and other circumstances, you should refer to Syscos Policy on Trading in Company Securities.
 
Federal laws restrict when Sysco and its associates can disclose material inside information to Sysco security holders, broker-dealers, investment advisers, investment companies, analysts, and investment bankers.  These matters are covered in our Disclosure Policy.  Only those associates who are authorized to do so under the Disclosure Policy should communicate any information regarding Sysco to any Sysco security holder or any of the types of persons described above.
 
You should also consult Protection of Syscos Assets, including Confidential Information above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
You are expected to act in the best interests of Sysco while performing your job.  You must not engage in activities that create, or even appear to create, a conflict between your personal interests and relationships and the interests of Sysco.  Your personal interests and family or other relationships must not interfere, or appear to interfere, with your ability to make decisions in the best interests of Sysco.  A conflict situation can occur when your personal interests make it difficult to perform your work objectively, effectively and in the best interests of Sysco. You should also exercise good judgment and avoid engaging in any conduct that would embarrass Sysco, compromise its reputation or otherwise raise questions about our honesty and integrity.
 
For purposes of considering potential conflicts of interest, your family members include your spouse, parents, siblings, grandparents, children, grandchildren, mothers- or fathers-in-law, and same or opposite sex domestic partners.  Also included is any family member who lives with you or who is otherwise financially dependent on you, or on whom you are financially dependent.  Even when dealing with family members beyond this definition, take care to ensure that your relationship does not interfere, or appear to interfere, with your ability to act in the best interests of Sysco.
 
Any activity or relationship that presents, or appears to present, a conflict of interest must be reported to your immediate supervisor before you engage in the activity.  If you are an officer of any Sysco company, you must also report such activity to Syscos General Counsel.  Your supervisor and, if applicable, Syscos General Counsel, will work with you to determine whether a conflict actually exists.  Syscos Board of Directors has also adopted a Related Person Transaction Policy applicable to all executive officers and directors of Sysco Corporation to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
 
Examples of conflicts or potential conflicts that must be disclosed and resolvedinclude:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are uncertain if a conflict exists, contact your supervisor, a Human Resources representative, or Syscos Legal Department for clarification. If you are an officer of any Sysco company, you should consult Syscos General Counsel.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
Our business decisions are made on merit.  Therefore, you must never directly or indirectly give, offer or receive anything of value to influence any persons business decision unethically or in order to gain an unfair or improper advantage.  Our rules, which are described below, are generally based on a reasonable standard, so remember that perception and moderation are the key.  However, gifts, meals and entertainment that involve foreign officials, government employees or employees of a healthcare provider are subject to stricter rules.
 
 
 
You may only accept gifts, meals or entertainment from customers, suppliers or vendors if doing so does compromise, and does not appear to compromise, your ability to make objective business decisions in the best interests of Sysco.  You must accept gifts, meals or entertainment that would appear to undermine or influence good business judgment.  
not
never
You may only accept gifts, meals or entertainment that are reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances.
 
Gifts may be accepted from a Sysco competitor.  Except in narrow circumstances in which you have received prior approval from Syscos General Counsel or Associate General Counsel, you may accept meals or entertainment from Syscos competitors.  Even if you have obtained the necessary approval, the rules described above also apply to the acceptance of meals or entertainment from competitors.
never
not
 
In addition, you should do any of the following in relation to a Sysco customer, supplier, vendor or competitor:
never
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any doubt about whether acceptance of a gift, meal, or entertainment complies with the Code, you should consult with your supervisor prior to acceptance.  Officers of Sysco with questions or concerns should consult with Syscos General Counsel.  Gifts or discounts offered to a large group of associates as part of an agreement between Sysco and a customer, supplier or vendor may be accepted and used as intended by the customer, supplier or vendor provided that the appropriate Sysco senior management approval has been obtained.
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vacation packages, hotel accommodations, out-of-town trips or other similar items of value in connection with business travel and entertainment are considered gifts and are subject to the principles described in the Code.  You must always obtain prior approval from your supervisor (and if your supervisor is not an officer of Sysco Corporation or one of its subsidiaries, the officer to whom your supervisor ultimately reports) before accepting a vacation package, hotel accommodations, trip or other similar items of value from a Sysco customer, supplier or vendor, even if it is being provided in connection with business travel and entertainment.  Your supervisor or the relevant officer has discretion to withhold approval for any reason; further, you supervisor and the relevant officer do not have authority to approve the request if the items are not both reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances.
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
If you are offered a gift, meal or entertainment that does not comply with the principles described above, politely decline and explain Syscos rules.  If returning a gift or refusing a meal or entertainment offer would offend the giver, or the circumstances under which a gift was given preclude its return, you may accept the gift, meal or entertainment, but should notify your supervisor as soon as reasonably possible.  For gifts that did not comply with our principles but you were unable to refuse or return, your supervisor will work with you either to donate the gift item to charity or distribute or raffle the item among a larger group of associates.
 
Specific Dollar Limits on Gifts, Meals and Entertainment; Reporting of Gifts, Meals and Entertainment
 
Your local company management, the corporate officer to whom you report and the supervisor in charge of your department have the discretion to:
 
 
 
 
 
You are responsible for making yourself familiar with any policies and procedures that may apply to you at your particular location.  Even if a gift, meal or entertainment opportunity offered to you complies with the policies and procedures established by your local company management, the corporate officer to whom you report or the supervisor in charge of your department, it must still comply with the principles established in the Code.  You may only accept gifts, meals or entertainment that are reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. If you have any doubt about whether acceptance of a gift, meal, or entertainment complies with the Code, you should consult with your supervisor prior to acceptance.
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
You may not furnish or offer to furnish any gifts, meals or entertainment to a person who has business dealings with Sysco under circumstances that might create the appearance of impropriety.  Such items may be provided, other than to healthcare providers and their employees, governmental officials and governmental employees, and certain foreign persons, if of the following requirements are satisfied:
all
 
 
 
 
 
See also Gifts to Governmental Officials and Healthcare Providers below.  Note also that gifts to persons who are considered foreign officials under federal law are governed by Syscos FCPA Policy.  Be aware that individuals may be foreign officials even though they are not actually government employees.
 
Always be sensitive to our customers, suppliers and vendors own rules on receiving gifts, meals and entertainment.  Moderation and appearance is the keyas a rule of thumb, never spend more on entertaining a customer, supplier or vendor than you would reasonably spend on yourself.  Gifts or entertainment offered to customers, suppliers and vendors as part of an incentive program approved by Syscos senior management are allowed so long as they fall within the program guidelines and are used as intended by Sysco.
 
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
Giving gifts, entertainment or anything of value to any domestic or foreign governmental official or employee is highly regulated and often prohibited.  A governmental employee is any individual employed by a federal, state or local entity, or a consultant acting on behalf of the entity.  For this reason, you must not directly or indirectly pay, give, offer or promise any gift, entertainment or thing of value to any governmental official or employee unless you have received approval from Syscos General Counsel.  For additional information, please review Syscos FCPA Policy.
 
Under some circumstances, giving a gift, entertainment or anything else of value  even a small holiday gift  to a healthcare provider, such as a hospital or nursing home, could violate federal anti-kickback laws.  For this reason, Sysco prohibits giving any gifts, entertainment or anything else of value to any healthcare providers or their employees for any purpose without written advance approval from Syscos General Counsel.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sysco believes that its associates should be free to participate in lawful political activity as they see fit.  However, associate political activity of a personal nature must take place on your own time and at your own expense.  You should never put pressure on fellow associates to support or contribute time or money to a candidate or political cause.  When you participate in political activities, you do so as an individual citizen.  You should never speak for, or give the impression that you are speaking on behalf of, Sysco unless authorized to do so by Syscos General Counsel.  No Sysco funds, property or services are to be used to support any political party or candidate without the prior approval of Syscos General Counsel.  Furthermore, payments made with Sysco funds to any foreign officials, political candidates or political parties outside the U.S. are prohibited.
 
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
We all have an obligation to uphold Syscos ethical standards.  If you observe behavior that concerns you, or that may represent a violation of our Code, you must raise the issue promptly.  Doing so will allow us an opportunity to deal with the issue and correct it, ideally before it becomes a violation of law or a risk to health, security or our reputation. By identifying problems or asking for help, you enhance our reputation for honesty, integrity and trust, and ensure our Code of Conduct is followed and enforced.  Sysco will protect any associate who raised a concern in good faith.  Failure to report conduct that you know to be a violation of the Code is also a Code violation.  It is also a violation of the Code to knowingly make a false accusation, lie to investigators or inter fere or refuse to cooperate with a Code investigation.  You should speak up when you:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We take all reports of possible misconduct seriously.  We are committed to:
 
 
 
 
Violations of this code may result in disciplinary actions, including termination of employment.
 
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
We value the help of associates who identify potential problems that Sysco needs to address.  Associates should feel free to report what they believe, in good faith, to be violations of this Code or any applicable law without fear of retaliation.  Sysco prohibits retaliation against anyone who reports a concern in good faith.  This means the fact that an associate who has raised a concern honestly or participated in an investigation cannot be the basis for any adverse employment action, including separation, demotion, suspension, loss of benefits, threats, harassment or discrimination.  Never hesitate to call Syscos Legal Department or Department of Compliance & Commitment if you feel that you have been retaliated against for speaking up.  Individuals engaging in retaliatory co nduct will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.  If you work with someone who has raised a concern or provided information in an investigation, you should continue to treat that person with courtesy and respect.
 
 
 
 
Sysco provides you with several anonymous and confidential ways to report concerns about conduct or situations that you believe violate our Code of Conduct or local, state or federal laws or regulations.  Anonymous calls, while taken seriously, are sometimes difficult to investigate and generally make it impossible for us to respond to you, so we encourage you to identify yourself if you are comfortable doing so. If you make your identity known but indicate your wish to remain anonymous to your supervisor, department or local operating company, we will do our best to keep your identity confidential.  However, sometimes anonymity can be broken during the investigation because of the nature of the concern.  To help maintain confidentiality, avoid discussing the issues you raised, or any investigation, with oth er associates.  Because we strive to maintain confidentiality in all investigations, we may not be able to inform you of the outcome of an investigation.
 
 
 
You have several options for raising issues and concerns:
 
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The responsibility for administering this Code rests with the Ethics Compliance Group, with oversight by the General Counsel, the Ethics Advisory Board and the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
If you are the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or President of Sysco Corporation; an Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President of Sysco Corporation; or an individual designated as an executive officer of Sysco Corporation under the rules of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, any waiver of this Code will only be granted to you by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of Sysco Corporations Board of Directors.  Waivers granted to such officers will be disclosed as and to the extent required by law or the rules of any stock exchange on which Sysco securities are listed.
 
Waivers to this Code involving other associates may be made by the Chief Executive Officer of Sysco Corporation.  Such waivers will be reported to the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors on at least an annual basis.
 
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Sysco company is responsible for providing timely training to all newly-hired associates, as well as annual ethics training for all associates.  Syscos Department of Compliance & Commitment will provide you with ethics training materials and guidance.
 
 
 
 
This Code will not give you an answer for every situation.  If you have questions, please seek additional guidance.  If you have any doubt about the right thing to do, ask your supervisor, a Human Resources representative, Syscos Legal Department or Syscos Department of Compliance & Commitment.
 
All statements contained in this Code:
 
 
 
 
Nothing in this Code grants any associate any right to continued employment or benefits under any employee benefit plan, program or arrangement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
 
I have received a copy of the Sysco Code of Conduct and the related Frequently Asked Questions.  I have read them in their entirety, and I understand their contents and accept my obligation and responsibility for maintaining Syscos reputation for integrity.  By signing below, I commit to following both the letter and spirit of the Code in all my actions on behalf of Sysco.  I understand that violations of the Code of Conduct and Syscos policies are subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
 
 
 
 
Please keep a copy of this Responsibility Statement for your records.  You will periodically be required to sign an acknowledgement form confirming that you have read the Code of Conduct and agree to abide by its provisions.  Failure to read the Code or sign the acknowledgement form does not excuse an associate from compliance with the Code.
 
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation
1390 Enclave Parkway
Hosuton, Texas 77077
T 281.584.1390
 
sysco.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



