FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20100816081022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On August 16, 2010, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended July 3, 2010. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated August 16, 2010 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 27, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 14-week fourth quarter and 53-week fiscal year 2010 ended July 3, 2010. In fiscal 2009, the fourth quarter included 13 weeks and the year included 52 weeks.
HOUSTON, August 16, 2010 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010 Highlights
Fiscal 2010 Highlights
"I am pleased and appreciative of the solid financial results our associates produced this past year. Volume trends improved as the year progressed and we executed at
 
a high level both in supporting our customers and improving productivity in all aspects of our business," said Bill DeLaney, Sysco's president and chief executive officer. "While the extent, pace and consistency of the economic recovery are not clear, the foundation of Sysco's business is strong and we are well positioned to capitalize on opportunities that materialize as we move forward."
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010 Summary
Sales for the fourth quarter were $10.3 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion, or 13.9% compared to the same period last year. When adjusted to a 13-week basis, sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 were up 5.8% compared to the prior year period primarily due to case volume growth and the impact of food cost inflation. Food cost inflation, as measured by the estimated change in Sysco's product costs, was 2.2%, driven mainly by increased prices for dairy, meat and produce. In addition, the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates for the fourth quarter increased sales by 1.3%.
Operating expenses increased $175 million, or 14.4%, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to the additional operating week in the current year period which increased expenses approximately $100 million, a $30 million unfavorable change related to Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI) and $29 million in higher incentive compensation. Headcount was 2.2% lower year-over-year at the end of the fourth quarter. When adjusted to a 13-week basis, operating expenses in the fourth quarter increased $76 million, or 6.2%, compared to the prior year period.
Operating income increased $44 million, or 8.1%, to $584 million during the fourth quarter. When adjusted to a 13-week basis, operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 increased just 0.4% compared to the prior year period due to the unfavorable impacts from changes in the value of COLI and higher incentive compensation discussed above.
Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $338 million, an increase of $22 million, or 7.1%. Diluted EPS was $0.57, including an estimated $0.04 favorable impact from the extra week of operations during the quarter and a $0.02 negative impact from COLI. Diluted EPS in the prior year period was $0.53, which included a $0.03 positive impact from COLI.
Fiscal 2010 Summary
Sales for fiscal 2010 were $37.2 billion, up $0.4 billion, or 1.1% compared to the prior year. When adjusted to a 52-week basis, sales in fiscal 2010 declined 0.9% compared to the prior year primarily due to the impact of food cost deflation and a change in sales mix partially offset by a benefit from the change in foreign exchange rates. Food cost deflation, as measured by the estimated change in Sysco's product costs, was 1.5%. The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates
 
for the fiscal year increased sales by 0.9%. Sales from acquisitions (less than 12 months) increased sales by 0.5%.
Operating expenses declined $33 million, or 0.6%, in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009. The decrease in operating expenses was primarily a result of a $72 million reduction in fuel expense, a $65 million favorable change related to COLI; and a $40 million decline in bad debt expense. These decreases were partially offset by the additional week of operations in the current year which increased expenses approximately $100 million and a $37 million increase in company-sponsored pension expense. When adjusted to a 52-week basis, operating expenses in fiscal 2010 declined $132 million, or 2.6%, compared to fiscal 2009.
Operating income increased $104 million, or 5.5%, to $2.0 billion for the fiscal year. When adjusted to a 52-week basis, operating income in fiscal 2010 increased 3.3% compared to the prior year period due to the items discussed above.
Net earnings for fiscal 2010 were $1.2 billion, an increase of $124 million, or 11.7%, compared to the prior year. Diluted EPS was $1.99, aided by a $0.04 favorable impact from COLI, an estimated $0.04 favorable impact from the extra week of operations and a $0.05 tax benefit related to the company's IRS settlement announced in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Diluted EPS in the prior year period was $1.77 which included a $0.07 negative impact from COLI.
Cash Flow and Capital Spending
Cash flow from operations was $885 million for fiscal year 2010, which is net of $528 million in IRS settlement payments made during this period.
Capital expenditures totaled $157 million and $595 million for the fourth quarter and fiscal year, respectively. The primary areas for investment included facility replacements and expansions, technology, and additions and replacements to Sysco's fleet. For the fiscal year 2011, the company projects capital expenditures will be in the range of $700 million to $750 million.
Conference Call & Webcast
Sysco's fourth quarter 2010 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, August 16, 2010 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investor Relations section.
 
About Sysco
Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 180 distribution facilities serving approximately 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2010 that ended July 3, 2010 the company generated more than $37 billion in sales. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at .
www.sysco.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding our ability to grow and take advantage of the economic recovery and our fiscal 2011 projections with respect to capital expenditures. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Factors impacting pension contributions include the possibility that our cash position could make it advantageous to make currently unanticipated early funding decisions. Factors affecting the net impact of the Business Transformation Project include the risk that the expected costs of the project in fiscal 2011 may be greater or less than currently expected because we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including the incurrence of expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated; the risk that our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process; and the risk of adverse effects if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or result in the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate. Sysco's business and our ability to grow and take advantage of the economic recovery are subject to a number of additional risks, including the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise, inflation risks, and labor issues. Risks and uncertainties also include risks impacting the economy generally, including the risk that the current economic downturn will continue, that initial signs of economic recovery may not prove long lasting, or that consumer confidence in the economy may not increase and decreases in consumer spending, particularly on food prepared outside the home, may not reverse. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including risks related to the implementation of our Business Transformation Project, the timing and successful completion of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending. For a discussion of additional factors impacting Sysco's business, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 27, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010 and 52-week year ending June 27, 2009 for fiscal 2009. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 contained an additional week as compared to fiscal 2009, our Results of Operations for fiscal 2010 are not directly comparable to the prior year. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2010 Results of Operations for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, except as described with respect to diluted earnings per share in the table below, the metrics from the Results of Operations for fiscal 2010 presented in the table below are adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total metric for the fourth quarter. Failure to make these adjustments causes the year-over-year changes in certain metrics such as sales, operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to be overstated, whereas in certain cases, a metric may actually have declined on a more comparable year-over-year basis. Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual results to adjusted results for the periods presented:
Sales:
Operating Income:
Operating Expenses:
Net Earnings:
Diluted Earnings Per Share:
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In Thousands)
 
(In Thousands)
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)
Note: Statistical sales mix information represents data for U.S. and Canadian Broadline companies only.


