FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20110815080034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On August 15, 2011, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ending July 2, 2011. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated August 15, 2011 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
     Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     The information in this Current Report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1H84
SYSCO REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER DILUTED
EPS OF $0.57 AND
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week fourth quarter and 52-week fiscal year 2011 ended July 2, 2011. In fiscal 2010, the fourth quarter included 14 weeks and the year included 53 weeks.
HOUSTON, August 15, 2011 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2011 Highlights
Full Year Fiscal 2011 Highlights
 
"We successfully supported our customers and profitably grew our share of market this past year in the midst of an economic recovery that remains slow and choppy," said Bill DeLaney, Sysco's president and chief executive officer. "Looking forward, we remain committed to optimizing our core business through the solid execution of our business plan and the effective implementation of our business transformation initiative."
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2011 Summary
As mentioned above, Sysco's fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 included an extra week of operations. As a result, financial results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 are not comparable to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The table below has been provided to aid in comparing year-over-year results for the fourth quarter.
Sales for the fourth quarter were $10.4 billion, an increase of $817 million, or 8.5% compared to adjusted sales in the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as measured by the estimated change in Sysco's product costs, was 5.9%, driven mainly by increased prices for dairy, meat, seafood and canned/dry products. This compares to inflation of 5.1% in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 and 2.2% in the prior year period. In addition, compared to adjusted sales in the prior year period, acquisitions (within the last 12 months) increased sales by 0.9%, and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates for the fourth quarter increased sales by 0.7%. This equates to real sales growth, as defined under "Non-GAAP Reconciliations" below, of 1.0%
Gross profit for the fourth quarter was $1.9 billion, an increase of $97 million, or 5.3%, compared to adjusted gross profit in the prior year. Gross profit as a percentage of sales declined 57 basis points year-over-year to 18.6% due to accelerating inflation rates and strategic pricing initiatives during the quarter.
Operating expenses in the fourth quarter increased $78 million, or 6.0% compared to adjusted operating expenses in the prior year period due mainly to increased
 
expenses for salaries and related costs, fuel, the corporate-sponsored pension plan and the company's business transformation initiative. As a result, operating income was $561 million in the fourth quarter, increasing $18 million, or 3.4% compared to adjusted operating income in the prior year.
Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $336 million, an increase of $23 million, or 7.2% compared to adjusted net earnings in the prior year. Diluted EPS in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 increased 7.5% compared to adjusted diluted EPS in the prior year period.
Fiscal 2011 Summary
As mentioned above, Sysco's fiscal 2010 included an extra week of operations. As a result, financial results for fiscal 2011 are not comparable to fiscal 2010. The table below has been provided to aid in comparing year-over-year results for the year.
Sysco's sales for fiscal 2011 were $39.3 billion, up $2.8 billion, or 7.7% compared to adjusted sales in the prior year. Food cost inflation, as measured by the estimated change in Sysco's product costs, was 4.6% driven mainly by high levels of inflation in the dairy, meat, seafood and canned/dry categories. This compares to deflation of 1.5% in fiscal 2010. Compared to adjusted sales in the prior year period, acquisitions (less than 12 months) increased sales by 0.7%, and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates for the fiscal year increased sales by 0.5%. This equates to real sales growth, as defined, of 1.9%.
Gross profit for fiscal 2011 was $7.3 billion, an increase of $355 million, or 5.1%, compared to adjusted gross profit in the prior year. Gross profit as a percentage of sales declined 46 basis points year-over-year to 18.6% due to pressure from high inflation and strategic pricing initiatives.
Operating expenses increased $358 million, or 7.1%, in fiscal 2011 compared to adjusted operating expenses in fiscal 2010 due mainly to increased expenses for salaries and related costs, fuel, the corporate-sponsored pension plan and the company's business transformation initiative. In addition, the Company recorded a
 
$36 million charge related to the withdrawal of an operating company from an MEPP in the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
As a result, operating income was $1.9 billion in fiscal 2011, which was essentially flat compared to adjusted operating income in fiscal 2010, and if the MEPP charge is excluded, adjusted operating income increased 1.7%.
Net earnings for fiscal 2011 were $1.2 billion, a decrease of $4 million, or 0.3%, compared to adjusted net earnings in the prior year. Diluted EPS in fiscal 2011 was $1.96 including a $0.04 negative impact from an MEPP charge and a $0.02 tax benefit. Adjusted diluted EPS in fiscal 2010 was $1.95 and included a $0.05 benefit from the company's IRS settlement. Excluding the impact of the tax benefits in both fiscal years and the MEPP charge in fiscal 2011, diluted EPS for fiscal 2011 increased 4.2% compared to adjusted diluted EPS in the prior year period.
Cash Flow and Capital Spending
Cash flow from operations was $1.1 billion for fiscal year 2011, which is net of $212 million in IRS settlement payments made during the year. Capital expenditures totaled $182 million and $636 million for the fourth quarter and fiscal year, respectively. The primary areas for investment included facility replacements and expansions, technology, and additions and replacements to Sysco's fleet.
Conference Call & Webcast
Sysco's fourth quarter 2011 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, August 15, 2011 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern. A live webcast of the call, as well as a copy of this press release, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investors section.
About Sysco
Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 177 distribution facilities serving approximately 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2011 that ended July 2, 2011 the company generated record sales of more than $39 billion. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at .
www.sysco.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding our commitment to optimizing our core business through the solid execution of our business plan and the effective implementation of our business transformation initiative. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. Factors impacting these forward-looking statements include the general risks associated with our business, including the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work
 
stoppages or otherwise, inflation risks, the impact of fuel prices, which have increased dramatically over the last few months, and labor issues. In the past, increased fuel prices have significantly increased our costs and reduced consumers' demand for meals served away from home. Risks and uncertainties also include risks impacting the economy generally, including the risk that the current economic downturn will continue, or that consumer confidence in the economy may not increase and decreases in consumer spending, particularly on food prepared outside the home, may not reverse. Also, there are risks related to our Business Transformation Project, including that the expected costs of our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2012 may be greater or less than currently expected because we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including the incurrence of expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated; the risk that our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process; and the risk of adverse effects if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or result in the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate. In fiscal 2011, we took additional time to test the underlying ERP system and are taking additional time in fiscal 2012 to improve the underlying systems prior to larger scale development, and these actions have caused a delay in the project; until we reach the point where the underlying system functions as intended, our development timeline is uncertain. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including risks related to the implementation of our Business Transformation Project, the timing and successful completions of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending. Pension expense and fuel expense may vary from those projected based on performance of plan assets and fluctuations in fuel costs, respectively, both of which are impacted by general economic conditions beyond our control. Share buybacks may also vary from those projected due to, among other factors, fluctuations in our stock price and changing business needs of the Company. For a discussion of additional factors impacting Sysco's business, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 3, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) (In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited) (In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (In Thousands)
 
(In Thousands)
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
Beginning with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, U.S. Meat operations are included in the Broadline segment. All prior periods have been restated for comparability.
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.
Data excludes U.S. Meat
 
(In Thousands)
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA FOR FY11 (Unaudited)
Beginning with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, U.S. Meat operations are included in the Broadline segment. We have provided comparative data below for the first quarter, second quarter and first 26 weeks of fiscal 2011 to reflect this change.
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliations (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
Sales:
Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011 for fiscal 2011 and a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 contained 13 weeks and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 contained an additional week, our sales for fiscal 2011 are not directly comparable to the prior year.
Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2010 sales for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, sales for fiscal 2010 presented in the table below are adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total sales for the fourth quarter. Failure to make these adjustments causes the year-over-year changes in sales growth to be understated. Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual sales to adjusted sales for the periods presented:
Sales Growth
Sysco's quarterly and annual GAAP sales growth rate is the unadjusted percentage increase in sales, comparing one period to the corresponding period in the prior year, and is impacted by external factors such as product cost inflation and exchange rates used in translating foreign sales. It also contains the results from acquisitions within the trailing last twelve months. The GAAP sales growth rate comparisons can differ year over year due to the end dates of our fiscal quarters. Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. For fiscal 2010, this resulted in a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010 and 52-week year ending June 27, 2009 for fiscal 2009. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 contained an additional week as compared to fiscal 2009, our GAAP sales growth for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 is not directly comparable to the GAAP sales growth for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. This shift in the fiscal year end dates also impacted our second and third quarters of fiscal 2011. The second quarter of fiscal 2011 included two lower volume holiday sales weeks of Christmas and New Year's, while the second quarter of fiscal 2010 only included the Christmas holiday. The third quarter of fiscal 2011 did not include either of the holidays while the third quarter of fiscal 2010 included the New Year's holiday. Management believes that adjusting each period's GAAP sales growth for the estimated impact of these items provides a better comparison of the sales performance on a year-over-year basis. In the foodservice industry, this adjusted sales growth rate is typically referred to as "real sales growth" and is often used as a proxy for volume growth. As a result, in the table below, GAAP sales growth for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, third quarter of fiscal 2011, second quarter of fiscal 2011, first quarter of fiscal 2011 and fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 are adjusted to remove the impact of product cost inflation, which is our internal measure of the changes in our product costs, exchange rates, acquisitions completed in the trailing last twelve months and estimated timing impacts of quarterly close periods. Set forth below is a reconciliation of GAAP sales growth to real sales growth for the periods presented:
 
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
Gross Profit:
Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011 for fiscal 2011 and a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 contained 13 weeks and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 contained an additional week, our gross profit for fiscal 2011 is not directly comparable to the prior year. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2010 gross profit for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, gross profit for fiscal 2010 presented in the table below is adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total gross profit for the fourth quarter. Failure to make these adjustments causes the year-over-year changes in gross profit growth to be understated. Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual gross profit to adjusted gross profit for the periods presented:
(In Thousands)
Operating Expenses
Sysco's operating expenses were impacted by a charge from a withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2011's operating expenses to remove the impact of this charge provides a better comparison of the performance of the company's operating expenses on a year-over-year basis. As a result, in the table below, operating expenses for fiscal 2011 are adjusted to remove the charges incurred from the withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan.
Additionally, Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011 for fiscal 2011 and a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 contained 13 weeks and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 contained an additional week, our operating expenses for fiscal 2011 are not directly comparable to the prior year. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2010 operating expenses for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, operating expenses for fiscal 2010 presented in the table below are adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total operating expense for the fourth quarter. Failure to make these adjustments causes the year-over-year changes in operating expenses to be understated. Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses to adjusted operating expenses for the periods presented:
 
(In Thousands)
Operating Income
Sysco's operating income was impacted by a charge from the withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2011's operating income to remove the impact of this charge provides a better comparison of the performance of the company's operating income on a year-over-year basis. As a result, in the table below, operating income for fiscal 2011 is adjusted to remove the charges incurred from the withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan.
Additionally, Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011 for fiscal 2011 and a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 contained 13 weeks and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 contained an additional week, our operating income for fiscal 2011 are not directly comparable to the prior year. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2010 operating income for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, operating income for fiscal 2010 presented in the table below are adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total operating income for the fourth quarter. Failure to make these adjustments causes the year-over-year changes in operating income to be understated. Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating income to adjusted operating income for the periods presented:
 
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
Diluted Earnings Per Share
Sysco's net earnings and diluted earnings per share were impacted by a charge from the withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan and recognized tax benefits. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2011's and fiscal 2010's net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove the impact of these items provides a better comparison of the performance of the company's net earnings and diluted earnings per share on a year-over-year basis. As a result, in the table below, net earnings and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 are adjusted to remove the charge incurred from the withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan in fiscal 2011 and to remove the impact of tax benefits in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010.
Additionally, Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011 for fiscal 2011 and a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 contained 13 weeks and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 contained an additional week, our net earnings and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2011 are not directly comparable to the prior year. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2010 net earnings and diluted earnings per share for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, net earnings for fiscal 2010 presented in the table below are adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total metric for the fourth quarter. The resulting adjustment is then applied diluted earnings per share for the fiscal 2010 periods presented below. Failure to make these adjustments causes the year-over-year changes in net earnings and diluted earnings per share to be understated. Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual net earnings to adjusted net earnings and the resulting impact to diluted earnings per share for the periods presented:


