FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20111108084557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     Unless this Form 8-K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "our," "us," "Sysco," or "the company" as used in this Form 8-K refer to Sysco Corporation together with its consolidated subsidiaries and divisions.
     Sysco's management has changed the way it evaluates the performance of its operating segment results. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2012, each segment's operating income no longer includes certain centrally incurred costs for corporate overhead and shared services. Previously, these centrally incurred costs were charged to the segments based upon the relative level of service used by each operating segment. Management now evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results, which excludes the allocation of certain centrally incurred costs. This results in higher operating income at an operating segment level and higher corporate expenses.
     Also in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we reorganized our buying cooperative to streamline certain business functions. This function began operating as a shared corporate cost center. As a result, Sysco changed the consolidated results of operations for the classification of certain centrally incurred purchasing costs to be recognized within operating expenses. Prior to fiscal 2012, these costs were netted against cost of sales and reflected as a reduction to gross profit.
     Both the new segment performance basis of reporting and the change in consolidated results of operations presentation are reflected in Sysco's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1, 2011. In the exhibits to this Form 8-K, Sysco has revised applicable sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2011 (the 2011 Form 10-K) to reflect these changes.
     The MD&A and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data filed with this Form 8-K are historical in nature and have not been updated in any way other than to reflect the new basis of determining segment operating income without the allocation of certain centrally incurred costs and the classification of centrally incurred purchasing costs, except that a typographical error has been corrected in the MD&A. The latter removed an ambiguity in the MD&A to clarify that the costs of the Company's Business Transformation Project are expected to exceed the benefits during Fiscal 2012. Except for the revisions described above, the MD&A is applicable as of August 30, 2011, the filing date for the 2011 Form 10-K. For this reason, the MD&A may include predictions or other forward-looking statements that are now outdated. No other information in our 2011 Form 10-K has been updated for events or developments that occurred subsequent to the initial filing of the 2011 Form 10-K with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). For developments since the initial filing of the 2011 Form 10-K, and a current MD&A discussion about the company, please refer to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 1, 2011. The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibits, should be read in conjunction with the 2011 Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings, including in particular, our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1, 2011.
     Certain statements made herein and in the exhibits to this Form 8-K that look forward in time or express management's expectations or beliefs with respect to the occurrence of future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements about Sysco's ability to increase its sales and market share and grow earnings, the continuing impact of economic conditions on consumer confidence and our business, sales and expense trends, including expectations regarding pay-related expense and pension costs, anticipated multi-employer pension related liabilities and contributions to various multi-employer pension plans, expectations regarding potential payments of unrecognized tax benefits and interest, expectations regarding share repurchases, expected trends in fuel pricing, usage costs and surcharges, our expectation regarding the provision for losses on accounts receivable, expected implementation, costs and benefits of the ERP system, estimated expenses and capital expenditures related to our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2012, our plan to continue to explore and identify opportunities to grow in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business, the impact of ongoing legal proceedings, the loss of SYGMA's largest customer not having a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole, compliance with laws and government regulations not having a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, anticipated acquisitions and capital expenditures and the sources of financing for them, continued competitive advantages and positive results from strategic initiatives, anticipated company-sponsored pension plan liabilities, our expectations regarding cash flow from operations, the availability and adequacy of insurance to cover liabilities, the impact of future adoption of accounting pronouncements, predictions regarding the impact of changes in estimates used in impairment analyses, the anticipated impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and Sysco's ability to meet future cash requirements and remain profitable.
     Actual results may differ materially due in part to the risk factors set forth below and those discussed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2011:
 
     For a more detailed discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see the risk factors discussion contained in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2011.
     In addition, the success of Sysco's strategic initiatives could be affected by conditions in the economy and the industry and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses, including fuel costs. Expected trends related to fuel costs and usage are impacted by fluctuations in the economy generally and numerous factors affecting the oil industry that are beyond our control. Our efforts to lower our cost of goods sold may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including actions by our competitors and/or customers. We have experienced delays in the implementation of our Business Transformation Project and the expected costs of our Business Transformation Project may be greater or less than currently expected, as we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages, or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) implementation process. As implementation of the ERP system and the Business Transformation Project begins, there may be changes in design or timing that impact near-term expense and cause us to revise the project calendar and budget, and additional hiring and training of employees and consultants may be required, which could also impact project expense and timing. Company-sponsored pension plan liabilities are impacted by a number of factors including the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits, the assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the expected rate of return on plan assets. The amount of shares repurchased in a given period is subject to a number of factors, including available cash and our general working capital needs at the time. Our plans with respect to growth in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business are subject to the company's other strategic initiatives and plans and economic conditions generally. Legal proceedings are impacted by events, circumstances and individuals beyond the control of Sysco. The need for additional borrowing or other capital is impacted by factors that include capital expenditures or acquisitions in excess of those currently anticipated, stock repurchases at historical levels, or other unexpected cash requirements. Predictions regarding the future adoption of accounting pronouncements involve estimates without the benefit of precedent, and if our estimates turn out to be materially incorrect, our assessment of the impact of the pronouncement could prove incorrect, as well. The anticipated impact of compliance with laws and regulations also involves the risk that estimates may turn out to be materially incorrect, and laws and regulations, as well as methods of enforcement, are subject to change.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements of Sysco Corporation of our report dated August 30, 2011 (except for Note 1, Note 19, Note 20 and Note 21, and the consolidated results of operations as to which the date is November 8, 2011), with respect to the consolidated financial statements and our report dated August 30, 2011 with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Sysco Corporation for the year ended July 2, 2011,included in the Current Report (Form 8-K) of Sysco Corporation, dated November 8, 2011, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Houston, Texas November 8, 2011

EXHIBIT 99.1
Overview
     Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. Our operations are primarily located throughout the United States, Canada and Ireland and include broadline companies, custom-cut meat operations, specialty produce companies, hotel supply operations, SYGMA (our chain restaurant distribution subsidiary) and a company that distributes to international customers.
     We consider our primary market to be the foodservice market in the United States and Canada and estimate that we serve about 17% of this approximately $220 billion annual market. According to industry sources, the foodservice, or food-away-from-home, market represents approximately 47% of the total dollars spent on food purchases made at the consumer level in the United States. This share grew from about 37% in 1972 to nearly 50% in 1998 and did not change materially until 2009 when it declined to the current level of 47%.
     Industry sources estimate the total foodservice market in the United States experienced a real sales decline of approximately 0.8% in calendar year 2010 and 6.9% in calendar year 2009. Real sales declines do not include the impact of inflation or deflation.
     General economic conditions and consumer confidence can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales. We believe the current general economic conditions, including pressure on consumer disposable income, have contributed to a decline in the foodservice market. Historically, we have grown at a faster rate than the overall industry and have grown our market share in this fragmented industry.
Highlights
     A slow economic recovery in the United States, combined with rising product cost inflation and continued low levels of consumer confidence, contributed to a challenging business environment in fiscal 2011. Sales increased during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010; however, gross profit dollars grew at a slower rate than sales and operating expenses increased faster than gross profit partially due to a significant charge of $36.1 million from a withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan. This resulted in a decline in operating income for fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. Comparisons between fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 are impacted by the presence of a 53 week in fiscal 2010. Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011, a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010 and a 52-week year ending June 27, 2009. Our Results of Operations discussion includes reconciliations of the actual results for fiscal 2010 to the adjusted results for fiscal 2010 based on a 52-week fiscal year due to the impact of the 53-week year in fiscal 2010.
rd
th
     The following table sets forth the change in certain components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over Fiscal 2010 on both a 53-week basis, or GAAP basis, and an adjusted 52-week basis:
 
Trends and Strategy
Trends
     General economic conditions and consumer confidence can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales. We believe the current general economic conditions, including pressure on consumer disposable income, have contributed to a slow rate of recovery in the foodservice market.
     We have experienced higher levels of product cost inflation this fiscal year as compared to fiscal 2010. While we are generally able to pass on modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable to pass through fully these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross profit percentage without negatively impacting our customers' business and therefore our business. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at current levels, periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit, operating income and earnings.
     We have also experienced higher operating costs this fiscal year from increased pay-related expense due to increased sales and gross profit as well as higher pension and fuel costs. We believe pay-related expense could continue to increase if sales and gross profit increase, as a portion of these costs is variable in nature. Pension costs will decrease in fiscal 2012 primarily due to higher returns on assets of Sysco's company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) during fiscal 2011. Fuel costs are expected to increase in fiscal 2012 as a result of anticipated higher fuel prices. Our Business Transformation Project is a key part of our strategy to control costs and continue to grow our business. We believe expenses related to the project will increase in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 as we prepare to begin deployment of the project to our operating companies and increase our headcount in our shared services center.
Strategy
     We are focused on optimizing our core broadline business in the U.S. and Canada, while continuing to explore appropriate opportunities to profitably grow our market share and create shareholder value through adjacent and international businesses. Day-to-day, our business decisions are driven by our mission to market and deliver great products to our customers with exceptional service, with the aspiration of becoming each of our customers' most valued business partner. We have identified five strategies to help us achieve our mission and vision:
 
Business Transformation Project
     In fiscal 2011, we substantially completed the design and build phases of our multi-year Business Transformation Project and we are testing the underlying ERP system and processes through a pilot implementation. We took more time to test the underlying ERP system and processes in fiscal 2011 than we originally anticipated. Our pilot operating company implemented the project and our shared services center became active in its support role in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. We are also taking additional time in fiscal 2012 to improve the underlying systems prior to larger scale deployment. These actions have caused a delay in the project of approximately six to twelve months and until we reach the point where the underlying system functions as intended, our deployment timeline is still being determined. Although we expect the investment in the Business Transformation Project to provide meaningful benefits to the company over the long-term, the costs will exceed the benefits during the testing and deployment stages of implementation, including fiscal 2012.
     Gross project expenses related to the Business Transformation Project were $102.0 million in fiscal 2011 or $0.11 per share, $81.1 million in fiscal 2010 or $0.09 per share and $35.7 million in fiscal 2009 or $0.04 per share. Our cash outlay for fiscal 2011 was $278.8 million, of which approximately $196 million was capitalized. Provided the improvements needed in the underlying systems are obtained in the first half of fiscal 2012, we anticipate the software will be ready for its intended use in the second half of fiscal 2012, which will result in reduced capitalization as compared to fiscal 2011 and increased expense from both software amortization and deployment costs. We will also incur increased costs from the ramp up of our shared services center, continuing costs for additional phases of our Business Transformation Project and information technology support costs. Some of these increased costs will be partially offset by benefits obtained from the project, primarily in reduced headcount, however the costs will exceed the benefits in fiscal 2012. We expect our gross project expenses related to the Business Transformation Project for fiscal 2012 to be approximately $280 million to $300 million and capital expenditures to be approximately $100 million to $120 million.
 
     
Results of Operations
     The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage of sales for the periods indicated:
     The following table sets forth the change in the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:
 
Impact of 53-week fiscal year in Fiscal 2010
     Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011, a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010 and a 52-week year June 27, 2009 for 2009. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 contained an additional week as compared to fiscal 2011, our Results of Operations for fiscal 2010 are not directly comparable to the current or prior year. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2010 Results of Operations for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, the Results of Operations discussion for fiscal 2010 presented below in certain instances discusses operating items that have been adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total metric for the fourth quarter, except as otherwise noted with respect to adjusted diluted earnings per share. Failure to make these adjustments would cause the year-over-year changes in certain metrics such as sales, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to be overstated, whereas in certain cases, a metric may actually have increased rather than declined or declined rather than increased on a more comparable year-over-year basis. Our Results of Operations discussion includes reconciliations of the actual results for fiscal 2010 to the adjusted results for fiscal 2010 based on a 52-week fiscal year.
th
 
Sales
     Sales for fiscal 2011 were 5.6% higher in fiscal 2011 than fiscal 2010. After adjusting for the estimated impact of the 53 week in fiscal 2010, the increase in sales in fiscal 2011 would have been 7.7%. Sales for fiscal 2010 were 1.1% higher than fiscal 2009. After adjusting for the estimated impact of the 53 week in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2010 would have had a sales decrease of 0.9%. Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual sales growth to adjusted sales growth/decline for the periods presented (see further discussion at "Impact of 53-week fiscal year in Fiscal 2010" above):
rd
rd
     Sales for fiscal 2011, excluding the negative impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010, increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices along with improving case volumes. Estimated product cost increases, an internal measure of inflation, were approximately 4.6% during fiscal 2011. Sales from acquisitions in the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 0.7% for fiscal 2011. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.5% compared to fiscal 2010.
     Sales for fiscal 2010, in addition to the positive impact of the extra week in fiscal 2010, were increased by improving case volumes. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.9% compared to fiscal 2009. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 0.5% for fiscal 2010. Product cost deflation and the resulting decrease in selling prices had a significant impact on sales levels in fiscal 2010. Estimated changes in product costs, an internal measure of deflation or inflation, were estimated as deflation of 1.5% during fiscal 2010. A change in customer sales mix as compared to fiscal 2009 also negatively impacted fiscal 2010 sales. Case volumes increased at a greater rate within our contract based customer group which generally receives lower pricing for higher volume.
Operating Income
     Cost of sales primarily includes our product costs, net of vendor consideration, and includes in-bound freight. Operating expenses include the costs of facilities, product handling, delivery, selling and general and administrative activities. Fuel surcharges are reflected within sales and gross profit; fuel costs are reflected within operating expenses.
     Operating income decreased 2.2% in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010 to $1.9 billion, and as a percentage of sales, declined to 4.9% of sales. After adjusting for the estimated impact of the 53 week in fiscal 2010, the decrease in operating income in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010 would have been 0.1%. This adjusted decrease was primarily driven by gross profit dollars growing at a slower rate than sales and operating expenses increasing faster than gross profit partially due to a significant charge of $36.1 million from a withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan. Gross profit dollars increased 2.9% in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010, and operating expenses increased 4.8% in fiscal 2011.
rd
     Operating income increased 5.5% in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009 to $2.0 billion, and as a percentage of sales, increased to 5.3% of sales. After adjusting for the estimated impact of the 53 week in fiscal 2010, the increase in operating income in fiscal 2010 over fiscal 2009 would have been 3.3%. This adjusted increase in operating income was primarily driven by a decrease in operating expenses. Gross profit dollars increased 1.1% in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009, while operating expenses decreased 0.5% in fiscal 2010.
rd
 
     Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating income to adjusted operating income for the periods presented (see further discussion at "Impact of 53-week fiscal year in Fiscal 2010" above):
     Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to increased sales, partially offset by the negative comparison of the additional week included in fiscal 2010. Gross profit, as a percentage of sales, was 18.80% in fiscal 2011, a decline of 50 basis points from the gross profit as a percentage of sales of 19.30% in fiscal 2010. This decline in gross profit percentage was primarily the result of the following factors described in the paragraphs below.
     First, Sysco's product cost inflation was estimated as inflation of 4.6% during fiscal 2011. Based on our product sales mix for fiscal 2011, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the dairy, meat and seafood product categories in the range of 10% to 12%. Our largest selling product category, canned and dry, experienced inflation of 4%. While we are generally able to pass through modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable to pass through fully these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross profit percentage in these product categories without negatively impacting our customers' business and therefore our business. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at these levels, prolonged periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit and earnings.
     Second, ongoing strategic pricing initiatives in fiscal 2011 lowered our prices to our customers in certain product categories in order to increase sales volumes. These initiatives are being phased in over time and resulted in short-term gross profit declines as a percentage of sales, but we believe will result in long-term gross profit dollar growth due to higher sales volumes and increased market share. We have experienced meaningful year over year volume growth with those items included in the early phases of these programs in the geographies where this program has been implemented. We believe the long-term benefits of these strategic initiatives will result in profitable market share growth.
     Third, gross profit dollars for fiscal 2011 increased as a result of higher fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges were approximately $26.0 million higher in fiscal 2011 than in the comparable prior year period due to higher fuel prices incurred during fiscal 2011 and the application of fuel surcharges to a broader customer base for a small portion of the third quarter and the entire fourth quarter. Assuming that fuel prices do not greatly vary from recent levels experienced in the second half of fiscal 2011, we expect fuel surcharges to largely offset our increased fuel costs expected in fiscal 2012.
     Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to the additional week included in fiscal 2010. In addition, gross profit reflected product cost deflation in fiscal 2010 as compared to product cost inflation in fiscal 2009. We may be negatively impacted by prolonged periods of product cost deflation because a significant portion of our sales are at prices based on the cost of products sold plus a percentage markup. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. Gross profit dollars for fiscal 2010 were also impacted by lower fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges were approximately $49.6 million lower in fiscal 2010 than fiscal 2009.
     Operating expenses for fiscal 2011 increased 4.8% primarily due to higher pay-related expense, an increase in net company-sponsored pension costs, provisions for withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans and higher fuel costs as compared to the prior year period. The impact of these operating expense increases was partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses of approximately $99.8 million resulting from the absence of the 53rd week in fiscal 2011.
     Operating expenses for fiscal 2010 were lower than in fiscal 2009 primarily due to reduced fuel costs and a favorable comparison on the amounts recorded to adjust the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values in both periods. Partially offsetting these operating expense declines were increases in pay-related expenses, net company-sponsored pension costs and approximately $99.8 million of expense associated with the additional week included in fiscal 2010.
     Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project, increased by $62.8 million in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased sales and gross profit, which resulted in increased delivery personnel costs and sales compensation. Portions of our pay-related expense are variable in nature and are
 
expected to increase when sales and gross profit increase. Pay-related expenses from acquired companies and changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting these increases were lower provisions for current management incentive bonuses of $12.1 million.
     Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project, increased by $43.9 million in fiscal 2010 over fiscal 2009. The fiscal 2010 increase was primarily due to increased provisions for management incentive accruals and cost associated with the additional week included in fiscal 2010. Partially offsetting these increases were lower pay-related expenses due to reduced headcount. The criteria for paying annual bonuses to our corporate officers and certain portions of operating company management bonuses are tied to overall company performance. In fiscal 2010, the overall company performance criteria for payment of such bonuses was met; therefore, the provision for current management incentive bonuses was higher in fiscal 2010 than in fiscal 2009 when the company assessed it did not meet the criteria for paying certain annual bonuses. Headcount declines occurred in fiscal 2010 due to both productivity improvements and workforce reductions commensurate with lower sales. Headcount was 2.2% lower at the end of fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009.
     Net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2011 were $60.3 million higher than in fiscal 2010. The increase in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to a decrease in discount rates used to calculate our projected benefit obligation and related pension expense at the end of fiscal 2010, partially offset by reduced amortization of our net actuarial loss resulting from actuarial gains from higher returns on assets of Sysco's Retirement Plan during fiscal 2010. Net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2012 have been determined as of the fiscal 2011 year-end measurement date and will decrease by approximately $27 million from fiscal 2011 due primarily to higher returns on assets of Sysco's Retirement Plan during fiscal 2011.
     Net company-sponsored pension costs were $37.4 million higher in fiscal 2010 than in fiscal 2009. The increase in fiscal 2010 was due primarily to lower returns on assets of Sysco's company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) during fiscal 2009, partially offset by an increase in the discount rates used to calculate our projected benefit obligation and related pension expense for fiscal 2010.
     From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multi-employer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. We recorded provisions related to multi-employer pension plans of $41.5 million in fiscal 2011, $2.9 million in fiscal 2010 and $9.6 million in fiscal 2009. See additional discussion of multi-employer pension plans at "Liquidity and Capital Resources, Other Considerations, Multi-Employer Pension Plans."
     Sysco's fuel costs increased by $33.0 million in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010 primarily due to increased contracted and market diesel prices. Our fuel costs decreased by $71.8 million in fiscal 2010 over fiscal 2009 primarily due to decreased contracted diesel prices. Sysco's costs per gallon increased 14.3% in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010, as compared to a decrease of 26.1% in fiscal 2010 over fiscal 2009. Sysco's activities to mitigate fuel costs include reducing miles driven by our trucks through improved routing techniques, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements with a goal of mitigating a portion of the volatility in fuel prices.
     Our fuel commitments will result in either additional fuel costs or avoided fuel costs based on the comparison of the prices on the fixed price contracts and market prices for the respective periods. In fiscal 2011, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $16.4 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes. In fiscal 2010, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $1.5 million of additional fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were higher than market prices for the contracted volumes for a portion of the fiscal year. In fiscal 2009, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $67.7 million of additional fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were higher than market prices for the contracted volumes.
     As of July 2, 2011, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $86 million through June 2012. These contracts will lock in the price of approximately 30% to 35% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices lower than the current market price for diesel for the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2012 and near the current market price for diesel for the remainder of the fiscal year. Subsequent to July 2, 2011, we entered into forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $17 million for July and August 2012. Assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2012, fuel costs exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $35 million to $45 million as compared to fiscal 2011. Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2012 and estimates of fuel consumption. Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. We continue to evaluate all opportunities to offset potential increases in fuel expense, including the use of fuel surcharges and overall expense management. Based on our current projections, we anticipate that the increase in fuel surcharges will offset the majority of our projected fuel cost increase in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.
 
     Gross project expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, inclusive of pay-related expense, increased by $20.8 million in fiscal 2011 from fiscal 2010 and by $41.6 million in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009. The increase in fiscal 2011 resulted from increased project spend including the initial stages of ramping up of our shared services center and a provision for severance resulting from the implementation of an involuntary severance plan. The increase in fiscal 2010 resulted from only six months of activity being included in fiscal 2009, as the Business Transformation Project began in January 2009. Provided the improvements needed in the underlying systems are obtained in the first half of fiscal 2012, we anticipate the software will be ready for its intended use in the second half of fiscal 2012, which will result in increased expense from both software amortization and deployment costs. We will also incur increased costs from the ramp up of our shared services center, continuing costs for additional phases of our Business Transformation Project and information technology support costs. We believe the increase in gross project expenses, including all pay-related expenses, related to the Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 will be approximately $175 million to $195 million.
     We adjust the carrying values of our COLI policies to their cash surrender values on an ongoing basis. The cash surrender values of these policies are largely based on the values of underlying investments, which through fiscal 2011 included publicly traded securities. As a result, the cash surrender values of these policies fluctuated with changes in the market value of such securities. The changes in the financial markets resulted in gains for these policies of $28.2 million in fiscal 2011, compared to gains for these policies of $21.6 million in fiscal 2010 and losses of $43.8 million in fiscal 2009. Near the end of fiscal 2011, we reallocated all of our policies into low-risk, fixed-income securities and therefore we no longer expect significant volatility in operating income, net earnings and earnings per share in future periods related to these policies.
     The provision for losses on receivables included within operating expenses decreased by $39.7 million in fiscal 2010 over fiscal 2009. The decrease in our provision for losses on receivables in fiscal 2010 reflects fewer customer accounts exceeding our threshold for write-off in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Customer accounts written off, net of recoveries, were $37.8 million, or 0.10% of sales, $34.3 million, or 0.10% of sales, and $71.9 million, or 0.20% of sales, for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our provision for losses on receivables will fluctuate with general market conditions, as well as the circumstances of our customers.
Net Earnings
     Net earnings for fiscal 2011 decreased 2.4% over the comparable prior year period. After adjusting for the estimated impact of the 53 week in fiscal 2010, the decrease would have been 0.3%. This adjusted decrease was primarily due to the factors discussed above and an increase in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was 36.96%, compared to an effective tax rate of 36.20% for fiscal 2010. The difference between the tax rates for the two periods resulted largely from the one-time reversal of interest accruals for tax contingencies related to our settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
rd
     Net earnings increased 11.7% in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009. After adjusting for the estimated impact of the 53 week in fiscal 2010, the increase would have been 9.5%. This adjusted increase was primarily due to a reduction in the effective income tax rate, as well as the factors discussed above. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2010 was 36.20%, compared to an effective tax rate of 40.37% for fiscal 2009. The difference between the tax rates for the two periods resulted largely from the one-time reversal of interest accruals for tax contingencies related to our settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
rd
     Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual net earnings to adjusted net earnings for the periods presented (see further discussion at "Impact of 53-week fiscal year in Fiscal 2010" above):
     The effective tax rate of 36.96% for fiscal 2011 was favorably impacted primarily by two items. First, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $17.0 million for the reversal of valuation allowances previously recorded on state net operating loss carryforwards. Second, we adjust the carrying values of our COLI policies to their cash surrender values. The gain of $28.2 million recorded in fiscal 2011 was primarily non-taxable for income tax purposes, and had the impact of decreasing income tax expense for the period by $11.1 million. Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was the recording of $9.3 million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax positions.
 
     The effective tax rate of 36.20% for fiscal 2010 was favorably impacted primarily by two items. First, we recorded an income tax benefit of approximately $29.0 million resulting from the one-time reversal of a previously accrued liability related to the settlement with the IRS (See "Liquidity and Capital Resources, Other Considerations, BSCC Cooperative Structure" for additional discussion). Second, the gain of $21.6 million recorded to adjust the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values in fiscal 2010 was non-taxable for income tax purposes, and had the impact of decreasing income tax expense for the period by $8.3 million.
     The effective tax rate of 40.37% for fiscal 2009 was unfavorably impacted primarily by two factors. First, we recorded tax adjustments related to federal and state uncertain tax positions of $31.0 million. Second, the loss of $43.8 million recorded to adjust the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values in fiscal 2009 was non-deductible for income tax purposes, and had the impact of increasing income tax expense for the period by $16.8 million. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 was favorably impacted by the reversal of valuation allowances of $7.8 million previously recorded on Canadian net operating loss deferred tax assets.
Earnings Per Share
     Basic and diluted earnings per share decreased 1.5% in fiscal 2011 from the prior year. After adjusting for the estimated impact of the 53 week in fiscal 2010, earnings per share increased 0.5%. This adjusted increase was primarily the result of factors discussed above, as well as a net reduction in shares outstanding. The net reduction in both average and diluted shares outstanding was primarily due to share repurchases which occurred during the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2011.
rd
     Basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share increased 12.4% in fiscal 2010 from the prior year. After adjusting for the estimated impact of the 53 week in fiscal 2010, this increase would have been 10.2%. This adjusted increase was primarily the result of factors discussed above, as well as a net reduction in shares outstanding. The net reduction in average shares outstanding was primarily due to share repurchases. The net reduction in diluted shares outstanding was primarily due to share repurchases and an increase in the number of anti-dilutive options excluded from the diluted shares calculation.
rd
     Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual diluted earnings per share to adjusted diluted earnings per share for the periods presented (see further discussion at "Impact of 53-week fiscal year in Fiscal 2010" above):
     Basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2011 were favorably impacted by two items. First, we recognized a favorable impact of $0.05 per share due to the gains recorded on the adjustment of the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values. Second, a favorable impact of $0.02 per share was recognized related to the recognition of deferred tax assets from the reversal of valuation allowances previously recorded on state net operating loss carryforwards. These favorable impacts were partially offset by $0.04 per share relating to the charge recorded upon withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan in the third quarter.
     Basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2010 were favorably impacted by $0.05 per share due to the one-time reversal of a previously accrued liability related to the settlement of an outstanding tax matter with the IRS and $0.04 per share due to gains recorded on the adjustment of the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values.
 
Segment Results
     We have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined in accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise. Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the company's custom-cut meat operations were reorganized to function as part of the United States Broadline segment. As a result, the results of the custom-cut meat operations are included in the Broadline reportable segment in the segment discussion below. Previously, these operations were an independent segment and were presented with the "Other" financial information relating to non-reportable segments. Segment reporting for the comparable prior year periods has been revised to conform to the new classification of the custom-cut meat operations as part of the Broadline reportable segment.
     The accounting policies for the segments are the same as those disclosed by Sysco within the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data within Exhibit 99.1 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. Intersegment sales generally represent specialty produce products distributed by the Broadline and SYGMA operating segments. Sysco's management evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results, which generally excludes any allocation of centrally incurred costs. While a segment's operating income may be impacted in the short term by increases or decreases in gross profits, expenses, or a combination thereof, over the long-term each business segment is expected to increase its operating income at a greater rate than sales growth. This is consistent with our long-term goal of leveraging earnings growth at a greater rate than sales growth. Corporate expenses generally include all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco's shared service center. These also include all share-based compensation costs and expenses related to the company's Business Transformation Project.
     The following table sets forth the operating income of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage of each segment's sales for each period reported and should be read in conjunction with Note 19, "Business Segment Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.2:
     The following table sets forth the change in the selected financial data of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage increase over the prior year and should be read in conjunction with Note 19, "Business Segment Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.2:
 
 
     The following table sets forth sales and operating income of each of our reportable segments, the other segment, and intersegment sales, expressed as a percentage of aggregate segment sales, including intersegment sales, and operating income, respectively. For purposes of this statistical table, operating income of our segments excludes corporate expenses of $558.8 million in fiscal 2011, $513.3 million in fiscal 2010 and $454.0 million in fiscal 2009 that are not charged to our segments. This information should be read in conjunction with Note 19, "Business Segment Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.2:
Broadline Segment
     The Broadline reportable segment consists of the aggregated results of the United States, Canadian and European Broadline segments, as well as the custom-cut meat operations. Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to customers. Broadline operations have significantly higher operating margins than the rest of Sysco's operations. In fiscal 2011, the Broadline operating results represented approximately 81% of Sysco's overall sales and 93% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco's segments, which excludes corporate expenses and consolidated adjustments.
     There are several factors which contribute to these higher operating results as compared to the SYGMA and Other operating segments. We have invested substantial amounts in assets, operating methods, technology and management expertise in this segment. The breadth of its sales force, geographic reach of its distribution area and its purchasing power allow us to leverage this segment's earnings.
Sales
     Sales for fiscal 2011 were 5.1% greater than fiscal 2010. Negatively affecting the sales comparison of fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 was the additional week in fiscal 2010. Product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, combined with case volume improvement, contributed to the increase in sales in fiscal 2011. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 4.9% in fiscal 2011. Non-comparable acquisitions contributed 0.8% to the overall sales comparison for fiscal 2011. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.6% compared to fiscal 2010.
     Sales for fiscal 2010 were 1.4% greater than fiscal 2009. Case volume improvement caused an increase in sales in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars positively impacted sales by 1.0% compared to fiscal 2009. Non-comparable acquisitions contributed 0.6% to the overall sales comparison for fiscal 2010. Changes in product costs were estimated as deflation of 1.5% in fiscal 2010. This product cost deflation, which led to decreases in selling prices, and a change in customer sales mix partially offset case volume improvement in fiscal 2010. The additional week also contributed to the sales growth in fiscal 2010.
Operating Income
     Operating income decreased by 1.0% in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010 as gross profit dollars increased slightly below the rate that operating expenses increased. However, it is important to note that operating expenses included a significant charge of $36.1 million from a withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan. Additionally, negatively affecting the operating income comparison of fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 was the additional week in fiscal 2010.
     Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2011 primarily due to increased sales; however, gross profit dollars increased at a lower rate than sales. This slower growth in gross profit dollars was primarily the result of two factors. Based on Broadline's product sales mix for fiscal 2011, it was most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the dairy, meat and seafood product categories in the range of 10% to 12%. Broadline's largest selling product category, canned and dry, experienced inflation of 4%. While we are generally able to pass through modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable pass through fully these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross profit percentage in these product categories without negatively impacting our customers' business and therefore our business. While we cannot predict whether inflation will
 
continue at these levels, prolonged periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact the Broadline segment's sales, gross profit and earnings. Second, ongoing strategic pricing initiatives largely lowered our prices to our customers in certain product categories in order to increase sales volumes. These initiatives are being phased in over time and resulted in short-term gross profit declines as a percentage of sales, but we believe will result in long-term gross profit dollar growth due to higher sales volumes and increased market share. We have experienced meaningful year over year volume growth with those items included in the early phases of these programs in the geographies where this program has been implemented. We believe the long-term benefits of these strategic initiatives will result in profitable market share growth.
     In addition, gross profit dollars for fiscal 2011 increased as a result of higher fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges were approximately $19.4 million higher in fiscal 2011 than the prior year due to the application of fuel surcharges to a broader customer base for a small portion of the third quarter and the entire fourth quarter due to higher fuel prices incurred during these periods. Assuming that fuel prices do not greatly rise above recent levels during fiscal 2012, we expect fuel surcharges to largely offset our increased fuel costs expected in fiscal 2012.
     The expense increases in fiscal 2011 were driven largely by provisions for withdrawal from a multi-employer pension plan and an increase in pay-related expenses. In fiscal 2011, we recorded provisions of $41.5 million for withdrawal liabilities from multi-employer pension plans from which union members elected to withdraw. The increase in pay-related expenses related to the sales and gross profit increase, including both delivery personnel costs and sales. Portions of our pay-related expense are variable in nature and are expected to increase when sales and gross profit increase. Pay-related expenses from acquired companies and changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars also contributed to the increase.
     Fuel costs were $22.0 million higher in fiscal 2011 than the prior year. Assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2012, fuel costs for fiscal 2012 not including any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $25 million to $35 million as compared to fiscal 2011. Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2012 and estimates of fuel consumption. Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. We continue to evaluate all opportunities to offset potential increases in fuel expense, including the use of fuel surcharges and overall expense management.
     Operating income increased by 5.7% in fiscal 2010 over fiscal 2009 primarily due to effective management of operations in the current economic environment by decreasing expenses as compared to the comparable prior year periods. Operating expenses decreased 1.3% in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The additional week in fiscal 2010 contributed to the gross profit increase, partially offset by a decrease of approximately $37.4 million in the fuel surcharges charged to customers in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 due to less usage of these surcharges in fiscal 2010. Expense performance for fiscal 2010 was primarily due to reduced fuel cost and lower provision for losses on receivables and operating efficiencies, such as reduced payrelated expense due to reduced headcount. Fuel costs were $51.8 million lower in fiscal 2010 than in the prior year. Partially offsetting these expense declines were increases in expenses related to the additional week in fiscal 2010.
     From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multi-employer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. We recorded provisions related to multi-employer pension plans of $41.5 million in fiscal 2011, $2.9 million in fiscal 2010 and $9.6 million in fiscal 2009.
SYGMA Segment
     SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations. SYGMA operations have traditionally had lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco's other segments. This segment of the foodservice industry has generally been characterized by lower overall operating margins as the volume that these customers command allows them to negotiate for reduced margins. These operations service chain restaurants through contractual agreements that are typically structured on a fee per case delivered basis.
Sales
     Sales were 9.2% greater in fiscal 2011 than in fiscal 2010. Negatively affecting the sales comparison of fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 was the additional week in fiscal 2010. The increase in sales was primarily due to case volume improvement largely attributable to new customers and, to a lesser extent, from an increase in volume from certain existing customers.
     Sales were 1.1% greater in fiscal 2010 than in fiscal 2009. The additional week contributed to the sales growth in fiscal 2010. Case volume improvement caused an increase in sales in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. This case growth was
 
largely attributable to new customers added largely in the latter part of the fiscal year and the additional week in fiscal 2010. Partially offsetting these case volume improvements was a decline in volume from existing customers due to the weak economic environment which applied continued pressure to consumer discretionary spending and negatively impacted overall restaurant traffic counts. Product cost deflation, which led to decreases in selling prices also impacted fiscal 2010 sales growth.
     One chain restaurant customer (The Wendy's Company) accounted for approximately 31% of the SYGMA segment sales for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2011. SYGMA maintains multiple regional contracts with varied expiration dates with this customer. While the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on SYGMA, we do not believe that the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole.
Operating Income
     Operating income increased $13.1 million in 2011 over the prior year due to increased sales and improved productivity. Gross profit dollars increased 9.5% while operating expenses increased 7.2% in fiscal 2011 from fiscal 2010. Contributing to the gross profit increase in fiscal 2011 were increased sales and an increase of approximately $6.6 million in the fuel surcharges charged to customers in fiscal 2011 from prior year due to higher fuel prices in fiscal 2011. The increase in operating expenses for fiscal 2011 was largely driven by increased delivery and warehouse personnel payroll costs resulting from increased sales as well as increased fuel cost. Productivity improvements occurred within our warehouse and delivery functions in fiscal 2011 and expense reductions occurred within our administrative functions in fiscal 2011 as compared to the prior year. Fuel costs in fiscal 2011 were $12.9 million greater than the prior year. Assuming that fuel prices do not significantly rise above recent levels during fiscal 2012, we expect fuel costs and fuel surcharges for our SYGMA segment to increase as compared to fiscal 2011.
     Operating income increased by $16.6 million in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. Gross profit dollars increased 0.7% while operating expenses decreased 3.6% in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The additional week in fiscal 2010 contributed to the gross profit increase, partially offset by a decrease of approximately $11.4 million in the fuel surcharges charged to customers in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 due to lower fuel prices in fiscal 2010. Expense reductions were accomplished by operational efficiencies in both delivery and warehouse areas, as well as lower payroll expense related to headcount reductions. Also contributing to the decrease in operating expenses was a decrease of $10.1 million in fuel costs in fiscal 2010 from the prior year due to lower fuel prices.
Other Segment
     "Other" financial information is attributable to our other operating segments, including our specialty produce and lodging industry products and a company that distributes to international customers. These operating segments are discussed on an aggregate basis as they do not represent reportable segments under segment accounting literature.
     On an aggregate basis, our "Other" segment has had a lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco's Broadline segment. Sysco has acquired the operating companies within these segments in relatively recent years. These operations generally operate in a niche within the foodservice industry. Each individual operation is also generally smaller in sales and scope than an average Broadline operation and each of these operating segments is considerably smaller in sales and overall scope than the Broadline segment. In fiscal 2011, in the aggregate, the "Other" segment represented approximately 5.7% of Sysco's overall sales and 4.5% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco's segments, which excludes corporate expenses and consolidated adjustments.
     Operating income increased 14.3% for fiscal 2011 from fiscal 2010. The operating income comparison was negatively affected by the additional week in fiscal 2010. The increase in operating income was caused primarily by increased sales in the specialty produce segment and favorable expense management in the specialty produce and lodging industry products segments.
     Operating income increased 27.6% for fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009. The increase in operating income was caused primarily by increased sales in our specialty produce segment and increased operating income in all segments due to favorable expense management. The additional week in fiscal 2010 also contributed to the increase in operating income.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
     Sysco's strategic objectives require continuing investment and our financial resources include cash provided by operations and access to capital from financial markets. Our operations historically have produced significant cash flow. Cash generated from operations is generally allocated to working capital requirements; investments in facilities, systems, fleet, other equipment and technology; acquisitions compatible with our overall growth strategy; and cash dividends. Any remaining cash generated from operations may be invested in high-quality, short-term instruments or applied toward the cost of the share repurchase program. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential
 
acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses, and our overall capital structure. Any transactions resulting from these evaluations may materially impact our liquidity, borrowing capacity, leverage ratios and capital availability.
     Our liquidity and capital resources can be influenced by economic trends and conditions primarily due to their impact on our cash flows from operations. Weak economic conditions and low levels of consumer confidence and the resulting pressure on consumer disposable income can lower our sales growth and potentially our cash flows from operations. While these factors were present in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, they had only a modest impact on our cash flows from operations in these periods due in large part to effective working capital management. We do not believe current economic conditions will significantly impact our cash flows from operations in fiscal 2012, as we can respond to reduced consumer demand, if it were to occur, by lowering our working capital requirements. Additionally, approximately one-third of our customers are not impacted by general economic conditions to the same extent as restaurants and other food retailers. These customers include hospitals, nursing homes, schools and colleges. Product cost inflation can potentially lower our gross profit and cash flow from operations if we are unable to pass through all of the increased product costs with the same gross profit percentage to our customers. This occurred in fiscal 2011, as we were able to pass some, but not all, of our product cost increases on to our customers. However; we believe our mechanisms to manage product cost inflation, some of which are contractual, are sufficient to limit the impact on our cash flows from operations.
     We believe that our cash flows from operations, the availability of additional capital under our existing commercial paper programs and bank lines of credit and our ability to access capital from financial markets, including issuances of debt securities, either privately or under our shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months and beyond, while maintaining sufficient liquidity for normal operating purposes. We believe that we will continue to be able to access the commercial paper market effectively as well as the long-term capital markets, if necessary. To further maintain and enhance our credit ratings on current and future debt, on January 19, 2011, the wholly-owned U.S. Broadline subsidiaries of Sysco Corporation entered into full and unconditional guarantees of all outstanding senior notes and debentures of Sysco Corporation. As of July 2, 2011, Sysco had a total of approximately $2.2 billion in senior notes and debentures outstanding that are covered by this guarantee.
Operating Activities
     We generated $1.1 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2011, $0.9 billion in fiscal 2010 and $1.6 billion in fiscal 2009. The increase of $206.1 million between fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 was driven largely by a reduction in the amount of payments made in relation to the IRS settlement of $316.0 million and reduced pension contributions in the amount of $136.2 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. These increases were partially offset by changes in working capital discussed in more detail below. The decrease of $691.3 million between fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 was driven largely by $528.0 million of payments related to the IRS settlement and $140.0 million of pension contributions made in advance for fiscal 2011. Additionally, several less significant items had offsetting impacts when comparing the cash flow from operations between fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. As described under "Other Considerations, BSCC Cooperative Structure," we will make the final payments under the IRS settlement in fiscal 2012 in the amount of $212 million.
     Cash flow from operations in fiscal 2011 was primarily generated by net income, reduced by increases in receivables and inventory balances and changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities, partially offset by non-cash depreciation and amortization expense and increases in accounts payable. Cash flow from operations in fiscal 2010 was primarily due to net income and non-cash depreciation and amortization expense, offset by decreases in accrued income taxes and other long-term liabilities and prepaid pension cost, net, increases in accounts receivable and inventory balances and changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Cash flow from operations in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to net income, non-cash depreciation and amortization expense, an increase in accrued income taxes, and increases in accounts receivable and inventory balances. The increases in fiscal 2009 were partially offset by decreases in accounts payable balances and accrued expenses.
     The increases in accounts receivable and inventory balances in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 were primarily due to sales growth. An increase in daily sales outstanding also contributed to the increase in accounts receivable and inventory balances in fiscal 2011. The decrease in accounts receivable and inventory balances in fiscal 2009 was primarily due to the sales decline. The increase in accounts payable balances in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 was primarily from the growth in inventory resulting from sales growth. The decrease in accounts payable balances in fiscal 2009 was primarily from inventory decreases resulting from the sales decline. Accounts payable balances are impacted by many factors, including changes in product mix, cash discount terms and changes in payment terms with vendors.
     Cash flow from operations was impacted by a decrease in accrued expenses of $43.3 million during fiscal 2011, an increase in accrued expenses of $58.0 million during fiscal 2010 and a decrease in accrued expenses of $120.3 million during fiscal 2009. The decrease in accrued expenses in the fiscal 2011 was primarily due to the payment of the respective prior year annual incentive bonuses, partially offset by lower accruals for current year compensation incentives. The remainder of the decrease was driven by multiple changes in various other accruals, of which no item was individually significant. The increase in accrued expenses during fiscal 2010 was primarily due to increases in incentive compensation accruals resulting from improved operating performance in fiscal 2010. The remainder of the increase was driven by multiple changes in various other
 
accruals, of which no item was individually significant. The decrease in accrued expenses during fiscal 2009 was primarily due to the payment of prior year annual incentive bonuses, offset by lower accruals for current year incentive bonuses.
     Cash flow from operations for fiscal 2011 was negatively impacted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities of $165.2 million and a decrease in accrued income taxes of $44.2 million. Cash flow from operations for fiscal 2010 was negatively impacted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities of $121.9 million and a decrease in accrued income taxes of $296.5 million. The main factor affecting both of these changes in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, as well as cash taxes paid, was the IRS settlement (discussed below in "Other Considerations, BSCC Cooperative Structure"), which resulted in the payment of taxes of $212.0 million in fiscal 2011 and $528.0 million in fiscal 2010 for the settlement agreement. Partially offsetting the negative impact described above, the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities was impacted by the contribution of an additional $140.0 million to our company-sponsored qualified pension plan in fiscal 2010 for contributions that would normally have been made in fiscal 2011. Cash flow from operations for fiscal 2009 was positively impacted by an increase in accrued income taxes of $325.5 million, partially offset by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities of $294.2 million. Total cash taxes paid were $907.7 million, $1,142.0 million and $735.8 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The changes in all periods were also impacted by the current tax provision and current year estimated tax payments.
     Other long-term liabilities increased $44.3 million during fiscal 2011. The increase for 2011 was primarily attributable to three items. First, we recorded withdrawal liabilities from multi-employer pension plans from which union members elected to withdraw during the period. Second, net company sponsored pension costs exceeded contributions to our company-sponsored pension plans during the period. Third, we recognized a provision for severance resulting from the implementation of an involuntary severance plan. Partially offsetting these increases, our liability for uncertain tax positions decreased as a result of settlements with various taxing authorities during the period.
     Other long-term liabilities and prepaid pension cost, net, decreased $271.7 million during fiscal 2010. The decrease in fiscal 2010 is primarily attributable to three items. First, pension contributions to our company-sponsored plans exceeded net company-sponsored pension costs. Second, our liability for deferred incentive compensation decreased due to accelerated distributions taken by plan participants of all or a portion of their vested balances pursuant to certain transitional relief under the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and other regular distributions. Third, our liability for uncertain tax positions decreased as a result of the settlement with the IRS, as well as a reclass to accrued income taxes for amounts expected to be paid in fiscal 2011.
     Other long-term liabilities and prepaid pension cost, net, decreased $48.4 million during fiscal 2009. The decrease in fiscal 2009 is primarily attributable to a decrease in our liability for uncertain tax benefits related to our settlement with the IRS. See additional discussion of an IRS settlement at "Other Considerations, BSCC Cooperative Structure." The decrease was partially offset by a combination of the recording of net company-sponsored pension costs and incentive compensation deferrals.
     We recorded net company-sponsored pension costs of $186.4 million, $126.1 million and $88.7 million during fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. Our contributions to our company-sponsored defined benefit plans were $161.7 million, $297.9 million and $95.8 million during fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. Included in the $161.7 million of contributions in fiscal 2011 was a $140.0 million contribution to our Retirement Plan that would normally have been made in fiscal 2012. Included in the $297.9 million of contributions in fiscal 2010 was a $140.0 million contribution to our Retirement Plan that would normally have been made in fiscal 2011 and quarterly contributions totaling $140.0 million for fiscal 2010. Additional contributions to our Retirement Plan are not currently anticipated in fiscal 2012, however we will evaluate our funding position at the end of fiscal 2012 and select the timing for a contribution at that time.
Investing Activities
     Fiscal 2011 capital expenditures included:
     Fiscal 2010 capital expenditures included:
 
     Fiscal 2009 capital expenditures included:
     We expect total capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 to be in the range of $750 million to $800 million. Fiscal 2012 expenditures will include facility, fleet and other equipment replacements and expansions; new facility construction, including fold-out facilities; and investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project.
     During fiscal 2011, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $101.1 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2011 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2011, we acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations in central California; Los Angeles, California; Ontario, Canada; Lincoln, Nebraska; and Trenton, New Jersey.
     During fiscal 2010, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $29.3 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2010 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2010, we acquired for cash a broadline foodservice operation in Syracuse, New York, a produce distributor in Atlanta, Georgia and a seafood distributor in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
     During fiscal 2009, in the aggregate the company paid cash of $218.1 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2009 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2009, we acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations in Ireland, Los Angeles, California and Boston, Massachusetts, as well as a produce distributor in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Financing Activities
Equity
     Proceeds from common stock reissued from treasury for share-based compensation awards were $332.7 million in fiscal 2011, $94.8 million in fiscal 2010 and $111.8 million in fiscal 2009. The increase in proceeds in fiscal 2011 was due to an increase in the number of options exercised in fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010 and 2009. The level of option exercises, and thus proceeds, will vary from period to period and is largely dependent on movements in our stock price.
     We traditionally have engaged in Board-approved share repurchase programs. The number of shares acquired and their cost during the past three fiscal years were 10,000,000 shares for $291.6 million in fiscal 2011, 6,000,000 shares for $179.2 million in fiscal 2010 and 16,951,200 shares for $438.8 million in fiscal 2009. There were no additional shares repurchased through August 17, 2011, resulting in a remaining authorization by our Board of Directors to repurchase up to 13,386,600 shares, based on the trades made through that date. Our current share repurchase strategy is to purchase enough shares to keep our diluted average shares outstanding relatively constant. Based on forecasted and past share exercises pursuant to our option plans, we expect to repurchase slightly more shares in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011.
     Dividends paid were $597.1 million, or $1.02 per share, in fiscal 2011, $579.8 million, or $0.98 per share, in fiscal 2010 and $548.2 million, or $0.92 per share, in fiscal 2009. In May 2011, we declared our regular quarterly dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 of $0.26 per share, which was paid in July 2011.
     In November 2000, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement covering 30,000,000 shares of common stock to be offered from time to time in connection with acquisitions. As of August 17, 2011, 29,477,835 shares remained available for issuance under this registration statement.
Short-term Borrowings
     We have uncommitted bank lines of credit, which provided for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $95.0 million, of which none was outstanding as of July 2, 2011 or August 17, 2011.
     Our Irish subsidiary, Pallas Foods Limited, has a 10.0 million (Euro) committed facility for unsecured borrowings for working capital. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility as of July 2, 2011 or August 17, 2011.
 
     On June 30, 2011, a Canadian subsidiary of Sysco entered into a short-term demand loan facility for the purpose of facilitating a distribution from the Canadian subsidiary to Sysco, and Sysco concurrently entered into an agreement with the bank to guarantee the loan. The amount borrowed was $182.0 million and was repaid in full on July 4, 2011.
Commercial Paper and Revolving Credit Facility
     We have a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion.
     Sysco and one of our subsidiaries, Sysco International, ULC., have a revolving credit facility supporting our U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs. The facility, in the amount of $1.0 billion, expires on November 4, 2012, but is subject to extension.
     During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, aggregate outstanding commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings ranged from approximately zero to $330.3 million, zero to $1.8 million, and zero to $165.0 million, respectively. There were no commercial paper issuances outstanding as of July 2, 2011 and $300.0 million of commercial paper issuances outstanding as of August 17, 2011.
     During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, our aggregate commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of 0.25%, 0.80% and 0.88%, respectively.
Fixed Rate Debt
     Included in current maturities of long-term debt as July 2, 2011 are the 6.10% senior notes totaling $200.0 million, which mature in June 2012. These notes were issued by Sysco International, Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sysco now known as Sysco International, ULC. It is our intention to fund the repayment of these notes at maturity through issuances of commercial paper, senior notes or a combination thereof.
     In February 2009, Sysco deregistered the securities remaining unsold under its then existing shelf registration statement that was filed with the SEC in February 2008 for the issuance of debt securities. In February 2009, Sysco filed with the SEC an automatically effective well-known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of debt securities that may be issued from time to time.
     In March 2009, Sysco issued 5.375% senior notes totaling $250.0 million due March 17, 2019 (the 2019 notes) and 6.625% senior notes totaling $250.0 million due March 17, 2039 (the 2039 notes) under its February 2009 shelf registration. The 2019 and 2039 notes, which were priced at 99.321% and 98.061% of par, respectively, are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision which allows Sysco to retire the notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the note holders are not penalized by early redemption. Proceeds from the notes will be utilized over a period of time for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions, refinancing of debt, working capital, share repurchases and capital expenditures.
     In September 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $200.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 to floating rate debt. In October 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $250.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 to floating rate debt. Both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and increasing floating interest rate exposure. These transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.
Total Debt
     Total debt as of July 2, 2011 was $2.7 billion of which approximately 75% was at fixed rates with a weighted average of 5.9% and an average life of 15 years, and the remainder was at floating rates with a weighted average of 2.1% and an average life of one year. Certain loan agreements contain typical debt covenants to protect note holders, including provisions to maintain the company's long-term debt to total capital ratio below a specified level. Sysco is currently in compliance will all debt covenants.
Other
     As part of normal business activities, we issue letters of credit through major banking institutions as required by certain vendor and insurance agreements. As of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, letters of credit outstanding were $23.0 million and $28.4 million, respectively.
 
Other Considerations
Multi-Employer Pension Plans
     As discussed in Note 18, "Commitments and Contingencies", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1, we contribute to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees.
     Under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan's termination, our voluntary withdrawal or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require us to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the multi-employer plan's unfunded vested liabilities. Generally, Sysco does not have the greatest share of liability among the participants in any of the plans in which we participate. Based on the information available from plan administrators, which has valuation dates ranging from January 31, 2009 to December 31, 2009, we estimate our share of withdrawal liability on most of the multi-employer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $200.0 million as of July 2, 2011 based on a voluntary withdrawal. This estimate excludes plans for which Sysco has recorded withdrawal liabilities. The majority of the plans we participate in have a valuation date of calendar year-end. As such, the majority of our estimated withdrawal liability results from plans for which the valuation date was December 31, 2009; therefore, our estimated liability reflects the asset losses incurred by the financial markets as of that date. Due to the lack of current information, we believe our current share of the withdrawal liability could materially differ from this estimate. In addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the IRS may impose a non-deductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund.
     From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multi-employer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. In the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the union members of one of our subsidiaries voted to withdraw from the union's multi-employer pension plan and join Sysco's company-sponsored Retirement Plan. This action triggered a partial withdrawal from the multi-employer pension plan. As a result, during the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we recorded a withdrawal liability provision of approximately $36.1 million related to this plan. We have experienced other instances triggering voluntary withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans. Total withdrawal liability provisions recorded include $41.5 million in fiscal 2011, $2.9 million in fiscal 2010 and $9.6 million in fiscal 2009. As of July 2, 2011, we had approximately $42.4 million in liabilities recorded related to certain multi-employer defined benefit plans for which our voluntary withdrawal had already occurred, which includes the liability recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Recorded withdrawal liabilities are estimated at the time of withdrawal based on the most recently available valuation and participant data for the respective plans; amounts are adjusted up to the period of payment to reflect any changes to these estimates. If any of these plans were to undergo a mass withdrawal, as defined by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, within a two year time frame from the point of our withdrawal, we could have additional liability. We do not currently believe any mass withdrawals are probable to occur in the applicable two year time frame relating to the plans from which we have voluntarily withdrawn.
     Required contributions to multi-employer plans could increase in the future as these plans strive to improve their funding levels. In addition, the Pension Protection Act, enacted in August 2006, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. We believe that any unforeseen requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability and excise taxes would be funded through cash flow from operations, borrowing capacity or a combination of these items.
     During fiscal 2008, we obtained information that a multi-employer pension plan we participated in failed to satisfy minimum funding requirements for certain periods and concluded that it was probable that additional funding would be required as well as the payment of excise tax. As a result, during fiscal 2008, we recorded a liability of approximately $16.5 million related to our share of the minimum funding requirements and related excise tax for these periods. During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we effectively withdrew from this multi-employer pension plan in an effort to secure benefits for our employees that were participants in the plan and to manage our exposure to this under-funded plan. We agreed to pay $15.0 million to the plan, which included the minimum funding requirements. In connection with this withdrawal agreement, we merged active participants from this plan into Sysco's company-sponsored Retirement Plan and assumed $26.7 million in liabilities. The payment to the plan was made in the early part of the second quarter of fiscal 2009.
BSCC Cooperative Structure
     Sysco's affiliate, Baugh Supply Chain Cooperative (BSCC), was a cooperative taxed under subchapter T of the United States Internal Revenue Code, the operation of which had resulted in a deferral of tax payments. The IRS, in connection with its audits of our 2003 through 2006 federal income tax returns, proposed adjustments that would have accelerated amounts that we had previously deferred and would have resulted in the payment of interest on those deferred amounts. Sysco reached a settlement with the IRS in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 to cease paying U.S. federal taxes related to BSCC on a deferred basis, pay the amounts that were recorded within deferred taxes related to BSCC over a three-year period and make a one-time
 
payment of $41.0 million, of which approximately $39.0 million was non-deductible. The settlement addressed the BSCC deferred tax issue as it relates to the IRS audit of our 2003 through 2006 federal income tax returns, and settles the matter for all subsequent periods, including the 2007 and 2008 federal income tax returns already under audit. As a result of the settlement, we agreed to pay the amounts owed in the following schedule:
     As noted in the table above, payments related to the settlement were $212.0 million and $528.0 million in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. Remaining amounts to be paid in 2012 will be paid in connection with our quarterly tax payments, two of which fall in the second quarter, one in the third quarter and one in the fourth quarter. We believe we have access to sufficient cash on hand, cash flows from operations and current access to capital to make payments required in fiscal 2012.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
     We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.
Contractual Obligations
     The following table sets forth, as of July 2, 2011, certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make contractual future payments:
 
 
     Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration, typically payable only in the event that certain operating results are attained or certain outstanding contingencies are resolved. Aggregate contingent consideration amounts outstanding as of July 2, 2011 included $56.6 million. This amount is not included in the table above.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses in the accompanying financial statements. Significant accounting policies employed by Sysco are presented in the notes to the financial statements.
     Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. These policies require our most subjective or complex judgments, often employing the use of estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We have reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors the development and selection of the critical accounting policies and estimates and this related disclosure. Our most critical accounting policies and estimates pertain to the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, self-insurance programs, company-sponsored pension plans, income taxes, vendor consideration, goodwill and intangible assets and share-based compensation.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
     We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable and determine the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts based on a combination of factors. We utilize specific criteria to determine uncollectible receivables to be written off, including whether a customer has filed for or has been placed in bankruptcy, has had accounts referred to outside parties for collection or has had accounts past due over specified periods. Allowances are recorded for all other receivables based on analysis of historical trends of write-offs and recoveries. In addition, in circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer's inability to meet its financial obligation, a specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the receivable to the net amount reasonably expected to be collected. Our judgment is required as to the impact of certain of these items and other factors as to ultimate realization of our accounts receivable. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, as was the case in fiscal 2009, additional allowances may be required.
Self-Insurance Program
     We maintain a self-insurance program covering portions of workers' compensation, general liability and vehicle liability costs. The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers. We also maintain a fully self-insured group medical program. Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Projections of future loss expenses are inherently uncertain because of the random nature of insurance claims occurrences and could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. In an attempt to mitigate the risks of workers' compensation, vehicle and general liability claims, safety procedures and awareness programs have been implemented.
Company-Sponsored Pension Plans
     Amounts related to defined benefit plans recognized in the financial statements are determined on an actuarial basis. Three of the more critical assumptions in the actuarial calculations are the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits, the assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the expected rate of return on plan assets.
 
     For guidance in determining the discount rates, we calculate the implied rate of return on a hypothetical portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximates the estimated payouts of the pension plan. The discount rate assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2011 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the July 3, 2010 measurement date, decreased 187 basis points to 6.15%. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2011 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the July 3, 2010 measurement date, decreased 79 basis points to 6.35%. The combined effect of these discount rate changes increased our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2011 by an estimated $85.6 million. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2012 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the July 2, 2011 measurement date, decreased 21 basis points to 5.94%. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2012 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the July 2, 2011 measurement date, decreased 42 basis points to 5.93%. The combined effect of these discount rate changes will increase our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2012 by an estimated $14.3 million. A 100 basis point increase in the discount rates for fiscal 2012 would decrease Sysco's net company-sponsored pension cost by $59.0 million, while a 100 basis point decrease in the discount rates would increase pension cost by $68.7 million. The impact of a 100 basis point increase in the discount rates differs from the impact of a 100 basis point decrease in discount rates because the liabilities are less sensitive to change at higher discount rates. Therefore, a 100 basis point increase in the discount rate will not generate the same magnitude of change as a 100 basis point decrease in the discount rate.
     We look to actual plan experience in determining the rates of increase in compensation levels. We used a plan specific age-related set of rates for the Retirement Plan, which are equivalent to a single rate of 5.30% as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010. For determining the benefit obligations as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, the SERP calculations use an age-graded salary growth assumption.
     The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan was 8.00% for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. The expectations of future returns are derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset class returns, reflecting a combination of historical performance analysis and the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, historical returns of the major stock markets and returns on alternative investments. Although not determinative of future returns, the effective annual rate of return on plan assets, developed using geometric/compound averaging, was approximately 8.1%, 4.0%, 4.1%, and 18.5%, over the 20-year, 10-year, 5-year and 1-year periods ended December 31, 2010, respectively. In addition, in nine of the last 15 years, the actual return on plan assets has exceeded 10%. The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.
     The expected return on plan assets impacts the recorded amount of net pension costs. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan is 7.75% for fiscal 2012. A 100 basis point increase (decrease) in the assumed rate of return for fiscal 2012 would decrease (increase) Sysco's net company-sponsored pension costs for fiscal 2012 by approximately $20.9 million.
     Pension accounting standards require the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans in the statement of financial position, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of July 2, 2011 was a charge, net of tax, of $501.1 million. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of July 3, 2010 was a charge, net of tax, of $598.8 million.
     Changes in the assumptions, including changes to the discount rate discussed above, together with the normal growth of the plans, the impact of actuarial losses from prior periods and the timing and amount of contributions, increased net company-sponsored pension costs by approximately $60 million in fiscal 2011. Changes in the assumptions, including changes to the discount rate discussed above, together with the normal growth of the plans, the impact of actuarial losses from prior periods, the impact of plan amendments and the timing and amount of contributions are expected to decrease net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2012 by approximately $27 million.
     We made cash contributions to our company-sponsored pension plans of $161.7 million and $297.9 million in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Included in the $161.7 million of contributions in fiscal 2011 was a $140.0 million contribution to our Retirement Plan that would normally have been made in fiscal 2012. We did not have a minimum required contribution to the Retirement Plan for the calendar 2010 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. Included in the $297.9 million of contributions in fiscal 2010 the minimum required contribution for the calendar 2009 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements, as well as a $140.0 million contribution to our Retirement Plan that would normally have been made in fiscal 2011. We do not have a minimum required contribution to the Retirement Plan for the calendar 2011 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements that must be made in fiscal 2012. Additional contributions to our Retirement Plan are not currently anticipated in fiscal 2012, however we will evaluate our funding position at the end of fiscal 2012 and select the timing for a contribution at that time. The estimated fiscal 2012 contributions to fund benefit payments for the SERP plan are approximately $23 million.
 
Income Taxes
     The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state, as well as foreign jurisdictions. Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals or adjustments of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits or valuation allowances, and our change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate.
     Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. We believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable; however, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or pay amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement generally would require use of our cash and may result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement may be recognized as a reduction in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.
Vendor Consideration
     We recognize consideration received from vendors when the services performed in connection with the monies received are completed and when the related product has been sold by Sysco. There are several types of cash consideration received from vendors. In many instances, the vendor consideration is in the form of a specified amount per case or per pound. In these instances, we will recognize the vendor consideration as a reduction of cost of sales when the product is sold. In some instances, vendor consideration is received upon receipt of inventory in our distribution facilities. We estimate the amount needed to reduce our inventory based on inventory turns until the product is sold. Our inventory turnover is usually less than one month; therefore, amounts deferred against inventory do not require long-term estimation. In the situations where the vendor consideration is not related directly to specific product purchases, we will recognize these as a reduction of cost of sales when the earnings process is complete, the related service is performed and the amounts realized. Historically, adjustments to our estimates related to vendor consideration have not been significant.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
     Goodwill and intangible assets represent the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired. Certain assumptions and estimates are employed in determining the fair value of assets acquired, including goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as determining the allocation of goodwill to the appropriate reporting unit.
     In addition, annually in our fourth quarter or more frequently as needed, we assess the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles by determining whether the fair values of the applicable reporting units exceed the carrying values of these assets. The reporting units used in assessing goodwill impairment are our eight operating segments as described in Note 19, "Business Segment Information," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 99.1. The components within each of our eight operating segments have similar economic characteristics and therefore are aggregated into eight reporting units.
     We arrive at our estimates of fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow and earnings multiple models. The results from each of these models are then weighted and combined into a single estimate of fair value for each of our eight operating segments. We use a 60% weighting for our discounted cash flow valuation and 40% for the earnings multiple models giving greater emphasis to our discounted cash flow model because the forecasted operating results that serve as a basis for the analysis incorporate management's outlook and anticipated changes for the businesses. The primary assumptions used in these various models include estimated earnings multiples of comparable acquisitions in the industry including control premiums, earnings multiples on acquisitions completed by Sysco in the past, future cash flow estimates of the reporting units, which are dependent on internal forecasts and projected growth rates, and weighted average cost of capital, along with working capital and capital expenditure requirements. When possible, we use observable market inputs in our models to arrive at the fair values of our reporting units. We update our projections used in our discounted cash flow model based on historical performance and changing business conditions for each of our reporting units.
     Our estimates of fair value contain uncertainties requiring management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Actual results could differ from these assumptions and projections, resulting in the company revising its assumptions and, if required, recognizing an impairment loss. There were no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles recorded as a result of assessment in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. Our past estimates of fair value for fiscal 2010 and 2009 have not been materially different when revised to include subsequent years' actual results. Sysco has not made any material changes in its impairment assessment methodology
 
during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe the estimates used in the analysis are reasonably likely to change materially in the future but we will continue to assess the estimates in the future based on the expectations of the reporting units. In the fiscal 2011 analysis our estimates of fair value did not require additional analysis; however, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for the following reporting units if our estimates of fair value were decreased by the following amounts. First, our reporting unit that distributes to international customers would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been 26% lower. Second, our European Broadline company would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been 27% lower. Third, our lodging industry products reporting unit would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been 29% lower. Lastly, our specialty produce operations would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been 34% lower. At July 2, 2011, these four reporting units had goodwill aggregating $498.3 million. For the remainder of our reporting units which at July 2, 2011 had goodwill aggregating $1.1 billion, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for a reporting unit if the estimated fair value for any of these reporting units had declined by greater than 50%.
     Certain reporting units (European Broadline, specialty produce, custom-cut meat, lodging industry products and international distribution operations) have a greater proportion of goodwill recorded to estimated fair value as compared to the United States Broadline, Canadian Broadline or SYGMA reporting units. This is primarily due to these businesses having been recently acquired, and as a result there has been less history of organic growth than in the United States Broadline, Canadian Broadline and SYGMA reporting units. In addition, these businesses also have lower levels of cash flow than the United States Broadline reporting units. As such, these reporting units have a greater risk of future impairment if their operations were to suffer a significant downturn.
Share-Based Compensation
     We provide compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under several share-based payment arrangements including various employee stock incentive plans, the Employees' Stock Purchase Plan, the Management Incentive Plan and various non-employee director plans.
     As of July 2, 2011, there was $61.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.62 years.
     The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Sysco's stock, implied volatilities from traded options on Sysco's stock and other factors. We utilize historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model; separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. Expected dividend yield is estimated based on the historical pattern of dividends and the average stock price for the year preceding the option grant. The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
     The fair value of each restricted stock unit award granted with a dividend equivalent is based on the company's stock price as of the date of grant. For restricted stock units granted without dividend equivalents, the fair value is reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period.
     The fair value of the stock issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan is calculated as the difference between the stock price and the employee purchase price.
     The fair value of restricted stock granted to employees is based on the stock price on grant date. The application of a discount to the fair value of a restricted stock grant is dependent upon whether or not each individual grant contains a post-vesting restriction.
     The compensation cost related to these share-based awards is recognized over the requisite service period. The requisite service period is generally the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The compensation cost related to stock issuances resulting from employee purchases of stock under the Employees' Stock Purchase Plan is recognized during the quarter in which the employee payroll withholdings are made.
     Certain of our option awards are generally subject to graded vesting over a service period. In those cases, we will recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. In other cases, certain of our option awards provide for graded vesting over a service period but include a performance-based provision allowing for the vesting to accelerate. In these cases, if it is probable that the performance condition will be met, we recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the shorter performance period; otherwise, we recognize compensation cost over the probable longer service period.
     In addition, certain of our share-based awards provide that if the award holder retires at certain age and years of service thresholds, the options continue to vest as if the award holder continued to be an employee or director. In these cases, for
 
awards granted prior to July 2, 2005 (our adoption date for the fair value recognition provisions in current stock compensation accounting standards), we will recognize the compensation cost for such awards over the remaining service period and accelerate any remaining unrecognized compensation cost when the employee retires. For awards granted subsequent to July 3, 2005, we will recognize compensation cost for such awards over the period from the date of grant to the date the employee first becomes eligible to retire with his options continuing to vest after retirement.
     Our option grants include options that qualify as incentive stock options for income tax purposes. In the period the compensation cost related to incentive stock options is recorded, a corresponding tax benefit is not recorded as it is assumed that we will not receive a tax deduction related to such incentive stock options. We may be eligible for tax deductions in subsequent periods to the extent that there is a disqualifying disposition of the incentive stock option. In such cases, we would record a tax benefit related to the tax deduction in an amount not to exceed the corresponding cumulative compensation cost recorded in the financial statements on the particular options multiplied by the statutory tax rate.
Forward-Looking Statements
     Certain statements made herein that look forward in time or express management's expectations or beliefs with respect to the occurrence of future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements about Sysco's ability to increase its sales and market share and grow earnings, the continuing impact of economic conditions on consumer confidence and our business, sales and expense trends, including expectations regarding pay-related expense and pension costs, anticipated multi-employer pension related liabilities and contributions to various multi-employer pension plans, expectations regarding potential payments of unrecognized tax benefits and interest, expectations regarding share repurchases, expected trends in fuel pricing, usage costs and surcharges, our expectation regarding the provision for losses on accounts receivable, expected implementation, costs and benefits of the ERP system, estimated expenses and capital expenditures related to our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2012, our plan to continue to explore and identify opportunities to grow in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business, the impact of ongoing legal proceedings, the loss of SYGMA's largest customer not having a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole, compliance with laws and government regulations not having a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, anticipated acquisitions and capital expenditures and the sources of financing for them, continued competitive advantages and positive results from strategic initiatives, anticipated company-sponsored pension plan liabilities, our expectations regarding cash flow from operations, the availability and adequacy of insurance to cover liabilities, the impact of future adoption of accounting pronouncements, predictions regarding the impact of changes in estimates used in impairment analyses, the anticipated impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and Sysco's ability to meet future cash requirements and remain profitable.
     These statements are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially due in part to the risk factors discussed at Item 1.A. in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere. In addition, the success of Sysco's strategic initiatives could be affected by conditions in the economy and the industry and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses, including fuel costs. Expected trends related to fuel costs and usage are impacted by fluctuations in the economy generally and numerous factors affecting the oil industry that are beyond our control. Our efforts to lower our cost of goods sold may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including actions by our competitors and/or customers. We have experienced delays in the implementation of our Business Transformation Project and the expected costs of our Business Transformation Project may be greater or less than currently expected, as we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages, or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process. As implementation of the ERP system and the Business Transformation Project begins, there may be changes in design or timing that impact near-term expense and cause us to revise the project calendar and budget, and additional hiring and training of employees and consultants may be required, which could also impact project expense and timing. Company-sponsored pension plan liabilities are impacted by a number of factors including the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits, the assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the expected rate of return on plan assets. The amount of shares repurchased in a given period is subject to a number of factors, including available cash and our general working capital needs at the time. Our plans with respect to growth in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business are subject to the company's other strategic initiatives and plans and economic conditions generally. Legal proceedings are impacted by events, circumstances and individuals beyond the control of Sysco. The need for additional borrowing or other capital is impacted by factors that include capital expenditures or acquisitions in excess of those currently anticipated, stock repurchases at historical levels, or other unexpected cash requirements. Predictions regarding the future adoption of accounting pronouncements involve estimates without the benefit of precedent, and if our estimates turn out to be materially incorrect, our assessment of the impact of the pronouncement could prove incorrect, as well. The anticipated impact of compliance with laws and regulations also involves the risk that estimates may turn out to be materially incorrect, and laws and regulations, as well as methods of enforcement, are subject to change.

EXHIBIT 99.2
     All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the information is set forth in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 
     The management of Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. Sysco's internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.
     Sysco's management assessed the effectiveness of Sysco's internal control over financial reporting as of July 2, 2011. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Based on this assessment, management concluded that, as of July 2, 2011, Sysco's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework.
     Ernst & Young LLP has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of Sysco's internal control over financial reporting as of July 2, 2011.
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders Sysco Corporation
     We have audited Sysco Corporation (a Delaware Corporation) and its subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of July 2, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Sysco Corporation's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
     We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     In our opinion, Sysco Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 2, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.
     We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010 and the related consolidated results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 2, 2011 of Sysco Corporation and subsidiaries and our report dated August 30, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Houston, Texas August 30, 2011
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders Sysco Corporation
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Sysco Corporation (a Delaware Corporation) and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, and the related consolidated results of operations, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 2, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
     We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company at July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 2, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
     We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of July 2, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 30, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Houston, Texas August 30, 2011, except for Note 1, Note 19, Note 20 and Note 21, and the consolidated results of operations as to which the date is November 8, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
1. SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Business and Consolidation
     Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and divisions, (Sysco or the company), is engaged in the marketing and distribution of a wide range of food and related products primarily to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry. These services are performed for approximately 400,000 customers from 177 distribution facilities located throughout the United States, Canada and Ireland.
     Sysco's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011, a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010 and a 52-week year ending June 27, 2009 for 2009.
th
     The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of Sysco and its consolidated subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and account balances have been eliminated.
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses. Actual results could differ from the estimates used.
     Sysco's management has changed the way it evaluates the performance of its operating segment results. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2012, each segment's operating income no longer includes certain centrally incurred costs for corporate overhead and shared services. Previously, these centrally incurred costs were charged to the segments based upon the relative level of service used by each operating segment. Management now evaluates the performance of each of its operating segments based on its respective operating income results, which excludes the allocation of certain centrally incurred costs. This results in higher operating income at an operating segment level and higher corporate expenses.
     Also in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, Sysco changed the consolidated results of operations for the classification of certain centrally incurred purchasing costs to be recognized within operating expenses. Prior to fiscal 2012, these costs were netted against cost of sales and reflected as a reduction to gross profit.
     As a result of these changes, Note 1, Note 19, Note 20 and Note 21 have been revised to show the new basis of operating segment results. The consolidated results of operations and Note 22 have been reclassified to demonstrate the changed classification of centrally incurred purchasing costs.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
     For cash flow purposes, cash includes cash equivalents such as time deposits, certificates of deposit, short-term investments and all highly liquid instruments with original maturities of three months or less, which are recorded at fair value.
Accounts Receivable
     Accounts receivable consist primarily of trade receivables from customers and receivables from suppliers for marketing or incentive programs. Sysco determines the past due status of trade receivables based on contractual terms with each customer. Sysco evaluates the collectability of accounts receivable and determines the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts based on a combination of factors. The company utilizes specific criteria to determine uncollectible receivables to be written off including whether a customer has filed for or been placed in bankruptcy, has had accounts referred to outside parties for collection or has had accounts past due over specified periods. Allowances are recorded for all other receivables based on an analysis of historical trends of write-offs and recoveries. In addition, in circumstances where the company is aware of a specific customer's inability to meet its financial obligation to Sysco, a specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the receivable to the net amount reasonably expected to be collected.
Inventories
     Inventories consisting primarily of finished goods include food and related products and lodging products held for resale and are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market. Elements of costs include the purchase price of the product and freight charges to deliver the product to the company's warehouses and are net of certain cash or non-cash consideration received from vendors (see "Vendor Consideration").
 
Plant and Equipment
     Capital additions, improvements and major replacements are classified as plant and equipment and are carried at cost. Depreciation is recorded using the straight-line method, which reduces the book value of each asset in equal amounts over its estimated useful life, and is included within operating expenses in the consolidated results of operations. Maintenance, repairs and minor replacements are charged to earnings when they are incurred. Upon the disposition of an asset, its accumulated depreciation is deducted from the original cost, and any gain or loss is reflected in current earnings.
     Certain internal and external costs related to the acquisition and development of internal use software being built within our Business Transformation Project are capitalized within plant and equipment during the application development stages of the project. This project is primarily in the development stage as of July 2, 2011 and no material depreciation has occurred.
     Applicable interest charges incurred during the construction of new facilities and development of software for internal use are capitalized as one of the elements of cost and are amortized over the assets' estimated useful lives. Interest capitalized for the past three fiscal years was $13.9 million in fiscal 2011, $10.0 million in fiscal 2010 and $3.5 million in fiscal 2009.
Long-Lived Assets
     Management reviews long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Cash flows expected to be generated by the related assets are estimated over the asset's useful life based on updated projections on an undiscounted basis. If the evaluation indicates that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable, the potential impairment is measured at fair value.
Goodwill and Intangibles
     Goodwill and intangibles represent the excess of cost over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired. Goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized. Goodwill is assigned to the reporting units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of a business combination. The recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles is assessed annually, or more frequently as needed when events or changes have occurred that would suggest an impairment of carrying value, by determining whether the fair values of the applicable reporting units exceed their carrying values. The reporting units used to assess goodwill impairment are the company's eight operating segments as described in Note 19, "Business Segment Information." The components within each of the eight operating segments have similar economic characteristics and therefore are aggregated into eight reporting units. The evaluation of fair value requires the use of projections, estimates and assumptions as to the future performance of the operations in performing a discounted cash flow analysis, as well as assumptions regarding sales and earnings multiples that would be applied in comparable acquisitions.
     Intangibles with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, which generally range from three to ten years. Management reviews finite-lived intangibles for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Cash flows expected to be generated by the finite-lived intangibles are estimated over the intangible asset's useful life based on updated projections on an undiscounted basis. If the evaluation indicates that the carrying value of the finite-lived intangible asset may not be recoverable, the potential impairment is measured at fair value.
Restricted Cash
     Sysco is required by its insurers to collateralize a part of the self-insured portion of its workers' compensation and liability claims. Sysco has chosen to satisfy these collateral requirements by depositing funds in insurance trusts or by issuing letters of credit. All amounts in restricted cash at July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010 represented funds deposited in insurance trusts.
Derivative Financial Instruments
     All derivatives are recognized as assets or liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Gains or losses on derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are recognized immediately in the consolidated results of operations, along with the offsetting gain or loss related to the underlying hedged item.
     Gains or losses on derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recorded as a separate component of shareholders' equity at their settlement, whereby gains or losses are reclassified to the Consolidated Results of Operations in conjunction with the recognition of the underlying hedged item.
     In the normal course of business, Sysco enters into forward purchase agreements for the procurement of fuel and electricity. Certain of these agreements meet the definition of a derivative. However, the company elected to use the normal purchase and sale exemption available under derivatives accounting literature; therefore, these agreements are not recorded at fair value.
 
Investments in Corporate-Owned Life Insurance
     Investments in corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policies are recorded at their cash surrender values as of each balance sheet date. Changes in the cash surrender value during the period are recorded as a gain or loss within operating expenses. The company does not record deferred tax balances related to cash surrender value gains or losses for the policies that Sysco has the intent to hold these policies to maturity. Deferred tax balances are recorded for those policies that Sysco intends to redeem prior to maturity. The total amounts related to the company's investments in COLI policies included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets were $231.3 million and $203.2 million at July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively.
Treasury Stock
     The company records treasury stock purchases at cost. Shares removed from treasury are valued at cost using the average cost method.
Foreign Currency Translation
     The assets and liabilities of all foreign subsidiaries are translated at current exchange rates. Related translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Revenue Recognition
     The company recognizes revenue from the sale of a product when it is considered to be realized or realizable and earned. The company determines these requirements to be met at the point at which the product is delivered to the customer. The company grants certain customers sales incentives such as rebates or discounts and treats these as a reduction of sales at the time the sale is recognized. Sales tax collected from customers is not included in revenue but rather recorded as a liability due to the respective taxing authorities. Purchases and sales of inventory with the same counterparty that are entered into in contemplation of one another are considered to be a single nonmonetary transaction. As such, the company records the net effect of such transactions in the consolidated results of operations within sales.
Vendor Consideration
     Sysco recognizes consideration received from vendors when the services performed in connection with the monies received are completed and when the related product has been sold by Sysco as a reduction to cost of sales. There are several types of cash consideration received from vendors. In many instances, the vendor consideration is in the form of a specified amount per case or per pound. In these instances, Sysco will recognize the vendor consideration as a reduction of cost of sales when the product is sold. In the situations in which the vendor consideration is not related directly to specific product purchases, Sysco will recognize these as a reduction of cost of sales when the earnings process is complete, the related service is performed and the amounts are realized.
Shipping and Handling Costs
     Shipping and handling costs include costs associated with the selection of products and delivery to customers. Included in operating expenses are shipping and handling costs of approximately $2,222.1 million in fiscal 2011, $2,103.3 million in fiscal 2010, and $2,136.8 million in fiscal 2009.
Insurance Program
     Sysco maintains a self-insurance program covering portions of workers' compensation, general and vehicle liability and property insurance costs. The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers. The company also maintains a fully self-insured group medical program. Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.
Share-Based Compensation
     Sysco recognizes expense for its share-based compensation based on the fair value of the awards that are granted. The fair value of stock options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Option pricing methods require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards are based on the company's stock price on the date of grant. Measured compensation cost is recognized ratably over the vesting period of the related share-based compensation award. Cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for those options (excess tax benefits) are classified as financing cash flows on the consolidated cash flows statements.
 
Income Taxes
     Sysco recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured pursuant to tax laws using rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount more likely than not to be realized.
     Sysco recognizes a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that has greater than a 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. To the extent interest and penalties may be assessed by taxing authorities on any underpayment of income tax, estimated amounts required by the accounting guidance related to uncertain tax positions have been accrued and are classified as a component of income taxes in the consolidated results of operations.
     The determination of the company's provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. The company's provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state, as well as various foreign jurisdictions. Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals or adjustments of accruals for tax contingencies or valuation allowances, and the company's change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate.
Acquisitions
     Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and the financial statements include the results of the acquired operations from the respective dates of acquisition.
     The purchase price of the acquired entities is allocated to the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the estimated fair value at the dates of acquisition, with any excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired, including intangibles, recognized as goodwill. The balances included in the consolidated balance sheets related to recent acquisitions are based upon preliminary information and are subject to change when final asset and liability valuations are obtained. Subsequent changes to the preliminary balances are reflected retrospectively, if material. Material changes to the preliminary allocations are not anticipated by management.
2. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING
Fair Value Measurements
     In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Statement No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements", which was subsequently codified within Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820, "Fair Value Measurements." This standard established a common definition for fair value under generally accepted accounting principles, established a framework for measuring fair value and expanded disclosure requirements about such fair value measurements. As of June 29, 2008, Sysco adopted the provisions of this fair value measurement guidance for financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis. The adoption of the fair value measurement provisions for financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis did not have a material impact on the company's financial statements. As of June 28, 2009, Sysco adopted the provisions of this fair value measurements guidance for non-recurring, non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value. Sysco's only non-recurring, non-financial asset fair value measurements are those used in its annual test of recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles, in which it determines whether estimated fair values of the applicable reporting units exceed their carrying values. The fair value measurements guidance was applied beginning in fiscal 2010 to this fair value estimation.
Disclosure About Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
     In March 2008, the FASB issued FASB Statement No. 161, "Disclosure about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133," which was subsequently codified within ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging". Effective for Sysco in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, this standard requires enhanced disclosures about an entity's derivative and hedging activities and thereby improves the transparency of financial reporting. Sysco has provided the required disclosures for this standard in Note 8, "Derivative Financial Instruments."
 
Business Combinations
     In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), "Business Combinations", which was subsequently codified as ASC 805, "Business Combinations." This standard establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in a business combination. This standard also establishes recognition and measurement principles for the goodwill acquired in a business combination and disclosure requirements to enable financial statement users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. In April 2009, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 141(R)-1, "Accounting for Assets and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise From Contingencies". This standard amended the previously issued business combinations guidance to address application issues raised by preparers, auditors, and members of the legal profession on initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting, and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. Sysco adopted the provisions of these standards on a prospective basis for business combinations beginning in fiscal 2010.
Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities
     In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. EITF 03-06-1, "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities", which was subsequently codified within ASC 260, "Earnings Per Share." This standard addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing earnings per share under the two-class method. This standard was effective for Sysco beginning in fiscal 2010 and interim periods within that year. All prior-period earnings per share data presented in filings subsequent to adoption must be adjusted retrospectively to conform to the provisions of this standard. Early application of this standard was not permitted. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements.
Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value
     In August 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2009-05, "Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value". This update provides additional guidance, including illustrative examples, clarifying the measurement of liabilities at fair value. This update is effective for the first reporting period beginning after its issuance. The company adopted the provisions of this update in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. The adoption of this update did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements.
Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements
     In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2010-06, "Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements." This update requires some new disclosures and clarifies some existing disclosure requirements about fair value measurements codified within ASC 820, "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures." The majority of the provisions of this update, including those applicable to Sysco, were effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009. Early application of the provisions of this update was permitted. The company adopted the applicable provisions of this update in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. The adoption of this update did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statement disclosures.
Subsequent Events
     In February 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update 2010-09, "Amendments to Certain Recognition and Disclosure Requirements." This update amends ASC 855, "Subsequent Events" to remove the requirement for SEC filers to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. In addition, the update clarifies the reissuance disclosure provision related to subsequent events. The update is effective immediately for financial statements that are issued or revised. The company adopted the provisions of this update in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Because this update affects the disclosure and not the accounting treatment for subsequent events, the adoption of this provision did not have a material impact on the company's consolidated financial statements.
Employers' Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets
     In December 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 132(R)-1, "Employers' Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets", which was subsequently codified within ASC 715, "Compensation  Retirement Benefits". This standard requires additional disclosures about assets held in an employer's defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan and became effective for Sysco in fiscal 2010. Sysco has provided the required disclosures for this standard in Note 12, "Employee Benefit Plans."
 
3. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs
     In May 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update 2011-04, "Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs." This update amends ASC 820, "Fair Value Measurement" to improve the comparability of fair value measurements presented and disclosed in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. In addition, the update explains how to measure fair value, but does not require additional fair value measurements and is not intended to establish valuation standards or affect valuation practices outside of financial reporting. This update is effective for interim reporting periods ending after December 15, 2011, which is the third quarter of fiscal 2012 for Sysco. The amendments in this update are to be applied prospectively and early application of this standard is not permitted. Sysco is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of ASU 2011-04 will have on its consolidated financial statements.
Presentation of Comprehensive Income
     In June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update 2011-05, "Presentation of Comprehensive Income." This update amends ASC 220, "Comprehensive Income" to eliminate the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity. The amendments require that all nonowner changes in stockholders' equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendments in this update do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, which will be fiscal 2013 for Sysco. The amendments in this update should be applied retrospectively and early application is permitted. Sysco is currently evaluating which presentation option it will utilize for comprehensive income in its consolidated financial statements.
4. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
     Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (i.e. an exit price). The accounting guidance includes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:
     Sysco's policy is to invest in only high-quality investments. Cash equivalents primarily include time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, high-quality money market funds and all highly liquid instruments with original maturities of three months or less. Short-term investments consist of commercial paper with original maturities of greater than three months but less than one year. These investments are considered available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value. As of July 3, 2010, the difference between the fair value of the short-term investments and the original cost was not material. There were no short-term investments as of July 2, 2011. Restricted cash consists of investments in high-quality money market funds.
     The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
 
     The following tables present the company's assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010:
     The carrying values of accounts receivable and accounts payable approximated their respective fair values due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. The fair value of Sysco's total debt is estimated based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issue or on the current rates offered to the company for debt of the same remaining maturities. The fair value of total debt approximated $2,919.4 million and $2,774.9 million as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively. The carrying value of total debt was $2,668.5 million and $2,480.6 million as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively.
5. ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS
     A summary of the activity in the allowance for doubtful accounts appears below:
6. PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
     A summary of plant and equipment, including the related accumulated depreciation, appears below:
 
     The capitalized direct costs for the internal use software portion of the company's Business Transformation Project are included within "computer hardware and software" in the table above in the amount of $356.2 million and $181.5 million as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively.
     Depreciation expense, including capital leases, for the past three years was $374.0 million in 2011, $361.7 million in 2010 and $361.1 million in 2009.
7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES
     The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill and the amount allocated by reportable segment for the years presented are as follows:
     Amortized intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2011 were $19.2 million with a weighted-average amortization period of eight years. By intangible asset category, the amortized intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2011 were customer relationships of $15.6 million with a weighted-average mortization period of eight years, non-compete agreements of $3.1 million with a weighted-average amortization period of five years and amortized trademarks of $0.5 million with a weighted-average amortization period of five years. The following table presents details of the company's amortized intangible assets:
a
     Intangible assets that have been fully amortized have been removed in the schedule above in the period full amortization is reached. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consisted of trademarks of $13.0 million and $12.0 million as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively.
     Amortization expense for the past three years was $21.9 million in 2011, $20.9 million in 2010 and $15.7 million in 2009. The estimated future amortization expense for the next five fiscal years on intangible assets outstanding as of July 2, 2011 is shown below:
 
8. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
     Sysco manages its debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps from time to time to achieve this position. The company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
     In September 2009, the company entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $200.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 to floating rate debt. In October 2009, the company entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $250.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 to floating rate debt. Both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and increasing floating interest rate exposure. These transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.
     The location and the fair value of derivative instruments in the consolidated balance sheet as of each fiscal year-end are as follows:
     The location and effect of derivative instruments and related hedged items on the consolidated results of operations for each fiscal year presented on a pre-tax basis are as follows:
     Hedge ineffectiveness represents the difference between the changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments and the changes in fair value of the fixed rate debt attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded directly in earnings within interest expense and was immaterial for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. The interest rate swaps do not contain a credit-risk-related contingent feature.
9. SELF-INSURED LIABILITIES
     Sysco maintains a self-insurance program covering portions of workers' compensation, general and vehicle liability and property insurance costs. The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers. The company also maintains a fully self-insured group medical program. A summary of the activity in self-insured liabilities appears below:
 
10. DEBT AND OTHER FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
     Sysco's debt consists of the following:
     The principal payments required to be made during the next five fiscal years on debt outstanding as of July 2, 2011 are shown below:
Short-term Borrowings
     As of July 2, 2011, Sysco had uncommitted bank lines of credit, which provided for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $95.0 million. As of July 3, 2010, Sysco had uncommitted bank lines of credit, which provided for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $88.0 million. There were no borrowings outstanding under these lines of credit as of July 2, 2011 or July 3, 2010, respectively.
     As of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, the company's Irish subsidiary, Pallas Foods Limited, had a 10.0 million (Euro) committed facility for unsecured borrowings for working capital. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility as of July 2, 2011 or July 3, 2010.
     On June 30, 2011, a Canadian subsidiary of Sysco entered into a short-term demand loan facility for the purpose of facilitating a distribution from the Canadian subsidiary to Sysco, and Sysco concurrently entered into an agreement with the bank to guarantee the loan. As of July 2, 2011, the amount outstanding under the facility was $182.0 million. The interest rate under the facility was 2.0% and payable on the due date. The loan was repaid in full on July 4, 2011.
Commercial Paper and Revolving Credit Facility
     Sysco has a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing the company to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300.0 million.
     Sysco and one of its subsidiaries, Sysco International, ULC., have a revolving credit facility supporting the company's U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs. The facility in the amount of $1,000.0 million expires on November 4, 2012, but is subject to extension.
 
     During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, aggregate outstanding commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings ranged from approximately zero to $330.3 million, zero to $1.8 million, and zero to $165.0 million, respectively. There were no commercial paper issuances outstanding as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively.
Fixed Rate Debt
     In February 2009, Sysco deregistered the securities remaining unsold under its then existing shelf registration statement that was filed with the SEC in February 2008 for the issuance of debt securities. In February 2009, Sysco filed with the SEC an automatically effective well-known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of debt securities that may be issued from time to time.
     In March 2009, Sysco issued 5.375% senior notes totaling $250.0 million due March 17, 2019 (the 2019 notes) and 6.625% senior notes totaling $250.0 million due March 17, 2039 (the 2039 notes) under its February 2009 shelf registration. The 2019 and 2039 notes, which were priced at 99.321% and 98.061% of par, respectively, are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision which allows Sysco to retire the notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the note holders are not penalized by early redemption. Proceeds from the notes will be utilized over a period of time for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions, refinancing of debt, working capital, share repurchases and capital expenditures.
     The 4.20% senior notes due February 12, 2013, 4.60% senior notes due March 15, 2014, the 5.25% senior notes due February 12, 2018, the 5.375% senior notes due September 21, 2035 and the 6.5% debentures due August 1, 2028 are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision that allows Sysco to retire the debentures and notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the debenture and note holders are not penalized by the early redemption.
     The 7.16% debentures due April 15, 2027 are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and are no longer redeemable prior to maturity.
     The 6.10% senior notes due June 1, 2012, issued by Sysco International, Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sysco now known as Sysco International, ULC, are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Sysco Corporation, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement, and include a redemption provision which allows Sysco International, ULC. to retire the notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the note holders are not penalized by the early redemption.
     Sysco's Industrial Revenue Bonds have varying structures. Final maturities range from four to 15 years and certain of the bonds provide Sysco the right to redeem the bonds at various dates. These redemption provisions generally provide the bondholder a premium in the early redemption years, declining to par value as the bonds approach maturity.
Total Debt
     Total debt as of July 2, 2011 was $2,668.5 million of which approximately 75% was at fixed rates with a weighted average of 5.9% and an average life of 15 years, and the remainder was at floating rates with a weighted average of 2.1% and an average life of one year. Certain loan agreements contain typical debt covenants to protect note holders, including provisions to maintain the company's long-term debt to total capital ratio below a specified level. Sysco is currently in compliance with all debt covenants.
Other
     As of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010 letters of credit outstanding were $23.0 million and $28.4 million, respectively.
 
11. LEASES
     Sysco has obligations under capital and operating leases for certain distribution facilities, vehicles and computers. Total rental expense under operating leases was $79.3 million, $80.7 million, and $83.7 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Contingent rentals, subleases and assets and obligations under capital leases are not significant.
     Aggregate minimum lease payments by fiscal year under existing non-capitalized long-term leases are as follows:
12. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
     Sysco has defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans for its employees. Also, the company contributes to various multi-employer plans under collective bargaining agreements and provides certain health care benefits to eligible retirees and their dependents.
     Sysco maintains a qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) that pays benefits to employees at retirement, using formulas based on a participant's years of service and compensation.
     The company's defined contribution 401(k) plan provides that under certain circumstances the company may make matching contributions of up to 50% of the first 6% of a participant's compensation. Sysco's expense related to this plan was $19.8 million in fiscal 2011, $22.8 million in fiscal 2010, and $30.2 million in fiscal 2009.
     Sysco's contributions to multi-employer pension plans, which include payments for voluntary withdrawals, were $32.8 million, $51.5 million, and $48.0 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Payments for voluntary withdrawals included in contributions were approximately zero, $17.4 million and $15.0 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See further discussion of Sysco's participation in multi-employer pension plans in Note 18, "Commitments and Contingencies."
     In addition to receiving benefits upon retirement under the company's Retirement Plan, participants in the Management Incentive Plan (see Management Incentive Compensationin Note 15, "Share-Based Compensation") will receive benefits under a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP). This plan is a nonqualified, unfunded supplementary retirement plan.
"
"
 
Funded Status
     Accumulated pension assets measured against the obligation for pension benefits represents the funded status of a given plan. The funded status of Sysco's company-sponsored defined benefit plans is presented in the table below. The caption "Pension Benefits" in the tables below includes both the Retirement Plan and the SERP.
     In order to meet a portion of its obligations under the SERP, Sysco maintains life insurance policies on the lives of the participants with carrying values of $170.0 million as of July 2, 2011 and $149.5 million as of July 3, 2010. These policies are not included as plan assets or in the funded status amounts in the tables above and below. Sysco is the sole owner and beneficiary of such policies. The projected benefit obligation for the SERP of $402.0 million and $363.5 million as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively, was included in Other long-term liabilities on the balance sheet.
     The amounts recognized on Sysco's consolidated balance sheets related to its company-sponsored defined benefit plans are as follows:
     Accumulated other comprehensive loss (income) as of July 2, 2011 consists of the following amounts that had not, as of that date, been recognized in net benefit cost:
 
     Accumulated other comprehensive loss (income) as of July 3, 2010 consists of the following amounts that had not, as of that date, been recognized in net benefit cost:
     The accumulated benefit obligation, which does not consider any salary increases, for the company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans was $2,325.2 million and $2,051.1 million as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively.
     Information for plans with accumulated benefit obligation/aggregate benefit obligation in excess of fair value of plan assets is as follows:
 
Components of Net Benefit Costs and Other Comprehensive Income
     The components of net company-sponsored pension costs for each fiscal year are as follows:
     The components of other postretirement benefit costs for each fiscal year are as follows:
     Net company-sponsored pension costs increased $60.3 million in fiscal 2011 due primarily to a decrease in discount rates used to calculate our projected benefit obligation and related pension expense, partially offset by reduced amortization of expense from actuarial gains from higher returns on assets of Sysco's Retirement Plan during fiscal 2010. Net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2012 are expected to decrease by approximately $27.3 million over fiscal 2011 due primarily to higher returns on assets of Sysco's Retirement Plan during fiscal 2011.
 
     Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) related to company-sponsored pension plans for each fiscal year are as follows:
     Other changes in benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive (loss) income related to other postretirement plans for each fiscal year are as follows:
     Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss (income) as of July 2, 2011 that are expected to be recognized as components of net company-sponsored benefit cost during fiscal 2012 are:
Employer Contributions
     The company made cash contributions to its company-sponsored pension plans of $161.7 million and $297.9 million in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. The contributions in fiscal 2011 of $140.0 million to the Retirement Plan would normally have been made in fiscal 2012; there were no minimum required contributions for the calendar 2010 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. The contributions in fiscal 2010 of $280.0 million to the Retirement Plan included the minimum required contribution for the calendar 2009 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements, as well as $140.0 million of contributions that would normally have been made in fiscal 2011. Additional contributions to the Retirement Plan are not currently anticipated in fiscal 2012, however we will evaluate our funding position at the end of fiscal 2012 and select the timing for a contribution at that time. The company's contributions to the SERP and other post-retirement plans are made in the amounts needed to fund current year benefit payments. The estimated fiscal 2012 contributions to fund benefit payments for the SERP and other postretirement plans are $23.1 million and $0.3 million, respectively.
 
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
     Estimated future benefit payments for vested participants, based on actuarial assumptions, are as follows:
Assumptions
     Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of year-end were:
     For determining the benefit obligations as of July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, the SERP calculations utilized an age-graded salary growth assumption.
     Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net company-sponsored pension costs and other postretirement benefit costs for each fiscal year were:
     For determining the net pension costs related to the SERP for fiscal 2011, the SERP calculations utilized an age-graded salary growth assumption. The calculation for fiscal 2010 utilized an age-graded salary growth assumption with reductions taken for determining fiscal 2010 pay due to base salary freezes in effect for fiscal 2010. The calculation for fiscal 2009 assumed various levels of base salary increase and decrease for determining pay for fiscal 2009 depending upon the participant's position with the company and a 7% salary growth assumption for all participants for fiscal 2010 and thereafter.
     A healthcare cost trend rate is not used in the calculations of postretirement benefit obligations because Sysco subsidizes the cost of postretirement medical coverage by a fixed dollar amount, with the retiree responsible for the cost of coverage in excess of the subsidy, including all future cost increases.
     For guidance in determining the discount rate, Sysco calculates the implied rate of return on a hypothetical portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximates the estimated payouts of the company-sponsored pension plans. The discount rate assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate. The discount rate to be used for the calculation of fiscal 2012 net company-sponsored benefit costs for the Retirement Plan is 5.94%. The discount rate to be used for the calculation of fiscal 2012 net company-sponsored benefit costs for the SERP is 5.93%. The discount rate to be used for the calculation of fiscal 2012 net company-sponsored benefit costs for the Other Postretirement Plans is 5.94%.
     The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption is net return on assets assumption, representing gross return on assets less plan expenses. The expected return is derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset class returns, reflecting a combination of rigorous historical performance analysis and the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, the historical returns of the major stock markets and returns on alternative investments. The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate. The expected long-term rate of return to be used in the calculation of fiscal 2012 net company-sponsored benefit costs for the Retirement Plan is 7.75%.
 
Plan Assets
Investment Strategy
     The company's overall strategic investment objectives for the Retirement Plan are to preserve capital for future benefit payments and to balance risk and return commensurate with ongoing changes in the valuation of plan liabilities. In order to accomplish these objectives, the company oversees the Retirement Plan's investment objectives and policy design, decides proper plan asset class strategies and structures, monitors the performance of plan investment managers and investment funds and determines the proper investment allocation of pension plan contributions and withdrawals. The company has created an investment structure for the Retirement Plan that takes into account the nature of the Retirement Plan's liabilities. This structure ensures the Retirement Plan's investment are diversified within each asset class, in addition to being diversified across asset classes with the intent to build asset class portfolios that are structured without strategic bias for or against any subcategories within each asset class. The company has also created a set of investment guidelines for the Retirement Plan's investment managers to specify prohibited transactions, including borrowing of money except for real estate portfolios or private equity portfolios where leverage is a key component of the investment strategy and permitted in the investments' governing documents, the purchase of securities on margin unless fully collateralized by cash or cash equivalents or short sales, pledging, mortgaging or hypothecating of any securities except for loans of securities that are fully collateralized, market timing transactions and the direct purchase of the securities of Sysco or the investment manager. The purchase or sale of derivatives for speculation or leverage is also prohibited; however, investment managers are allowed to use derivative securities so long as they do not increase the risk profile or leverage of the manager's portfolio.
     The company's target and actual investment allocation as of July 2, 2011 is as follows:
     Sysco's investment strategy is implemented through a combination of balanced and specialist investment managers, passive investment funds and actively-managed investment funds. U.S. equity consists of both large-cap and small-to-mid-cap securities. Core fixed income investments include intermediate range U.S. government and agency securities, corporate bonds from diversified industries, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, other debt securities and derivative securities. Long duration fixed income investments include U.S. government and agency securities, corporate bonds from diversified industries, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, other debt securities and derivative securities. High yield fixed income consists of below investment grade corporate debt securities and may include derivative securities. Alternative investments may include private equity, private real estate, timberland, and commodities investments. Investment funds are selected based on each fund's stated investment strategy to align with Sysco's overall target mix of investments. Actual asset allocation is regularly reviewed and periodically rebalanced to the target allocation when considered appropriate. As of July 2, 2011, actual asset allocation varied from the stated target in certain categories, as alternative investment funding, primarily in private equity funds require contributions over a multi-year period. Until such capital is required, the company has chosen to invest these amounts in U.S. equities.
     As discussed above, the Retirement Plan's investments in equity, fixed income and alternative investments provide a range of returns and also expose the plan to investment risk. However, the investment policies put in place by the company require diversification of plan assets across issuers, industries and countries. As such, the Retirement Plan does not have significant concentrations of risk in plan assets.
Fair Value of Plan Assets
     Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (i.e. an exit price). See Note 3, "Fair Value Measurements," for a description of the fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities measured at fair value.
 
     Cash and cash equivalents: Valued at amortized cost, which approximates fair value. Cash and cash equivalents is included as a Level 2 measurement in the table below.
     Equity securities: Valued at the closing price reported on the exchange market. If a stock is not listed on a public exchange, such as an American Depository Receipt or some preferred stocks, the stock is valued using an evaluated bid price based on a compilation of observable market information. Inputs used include yields, the underlying security "best price", adjustments for corporate actions and exchange prices of underlying and common stock of the same issuer. Equity securities valued at the closing price reported on the exchange market are classified as a Level 1 measurement in the table below; all other equity securities are included as a Level 2 measurement.
     Fixed income securities: Valued using evaluated bid prices based on a compilation of observable market information or a broker quote in a non-active market. Inputs used vary by type of security, but include spreads, yields, rate benchmarks, rate of prepayment, cash flows, rating changes and collateral performance and type. All fixed income securities are included as a Level 2 measurement in the table below.
     Investment funds: Valued at the net asset value (NAV) provided by the manager of each fund. The NAV is calculated as the underlying net assets owned by the fund, divided by the number of shares outstanding. The NAV is based on the fair value of the underlying securities within the fund. The real estate fund is valued at the NAV of shares held by the Retirement Plan, which is based on the valuations of the underlying real estate investments held by the fund. Each real estate investment is valued on the basis of a discounted cash flow approach. Inputs used include future rental receipts, expenses and residual values from a market participant view of the highest and best use of the real estate as rental property. All investment funds, with the exception of the real estate fund and private equity funds, are included as a Level 2 measurement in the table below. The real estate fund and private equity funds are included as Level 3 measurements.
     Derivatives: Valuation method varies by type of derivative security.
 
     The following table presents the fair value of the Retirement Plan's assets by major asset category as of July 2, 2011:
 
 
     The following table presents the fair value of the Retirement Plan's assets by major asset category as of July 3, 2010:
 
     The following table sets forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Retirement Plan's Level 3 assets for each fiscal year:
 
13. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
     Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for each respective year. Diluted earnings per share has been computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during those respective years adjusted for the dilutive effect of stock options outstanding using the treasury stock method.
     A reconciliation of the numerators and the denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations for the periods presented follows:
     The number of options that were not included in the diluted earnings per share calculation because the effect would have been anti-dilutive was approximately 50,700,000, 58,200,000 and 63,000,000 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
     Dividends declared were $604.5 million, $585.7 million and $557.5 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Included in dividends declared for each year were dividends declared but not yet paid at year-end of approximately $155.0 million, $148.0 million and $142.0 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
14. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
     Comprehensive income is net earnings plus certain other items that are recorded directly to shareholders' equity, such as foreign currency translation adjustments, amounts related to cash flow hedging arrangements and certain amounts related to pension and other postretirement plans. The amortization of the cash flow hedge noted in the tables below relates to a cash flow hedge of a forecasted debt issuance which was settled in September 2005 and is being amortized over the life of the related debt. Comprehensive income was $1,372.3 million, $977.7 million and $846.7 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
     A summary of the components of other comprehensive (loss) income and the related tax effects for each of the years presented is as follows:
 
 
     The following table provides a summary of the changes in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the years presented:
15. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
     Sysco provides compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under several share-based payment arrangements including various employee stock option plans, the Employees' Stock Purchase Plan, the Management Incentive Plan and various non-employee director plans.
Stock Incentive Plans
     In November 2009, Sysco's 2007 Stock Incentive Plan was amended and provides for the issuance of up to 55,000,000 shares of Sysco common stock for share-based awards to officers and other employees of the company. Of the 55,000,000 authorized shares, the full 55,000,000 shares may be issued as options or stock appreciation rights and up to 10,000,000 shares may be issued as restricted stock, restricted stock units or other types of stock-based awards. To date, Sysco has issued options, restricted stock and restricted stock units under this plan. Vesting requirements for awards under this plan will vary by individual grant and may include either time-based vesting or time-based vesting subject to acceleration based on performance criteria for fiscal periods of at least one year. The contractual life of all options granted under this plan will be no greater than seven years. As of July 2, 2011, there were 24,814,016 remaining shares authorized and available for grant in total under the amended 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, of which the full 24,814,016 shares may be issued as options or stock appreciation rights, or as a combination of up to 8,667,189 shares that may be issued as restricted stock, restricted stock units or other types of stock-based awards with the remainder available for issuance as options or stock appreciation rights.
 
     Sysco has also granted employee options under several previous employee stock option plans for which previously granted options remain outstanding as of July 2, 2011. No new options will be issued under any of the prior plans, as future grants to employees will be made through the amended 2007 Stock Incentive Plan or subsequently adopted plans. Vesting requirements for awards under these plans vary by individual grant and include either time-based vesting or time-based vesting subject to acceleration based on performance criteria. The contractual life of all options granted under these plans through July 3, 2004 is 10 years; options granted after July 3, 2004 have a contractual life of seven years.
     In November 2009, Sysco's 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan was adopted and provides for the issuance of up to 750,000 shares of Sysco common stock for share-based awards to non-employee directors. The authorized shares may be granted as restricted stock, restricted stock units, elected shares or additional shares. In addition, options and unvested common shares also remained outstanding as of July 2, 2011 under previous non-employee director stock plans. No further grants will be made under these previous plans, as all future grants to non-employee directors will be made through the 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan or subsequently adopted plans. Vesting requirements for awards under these plans vary by individual grant and include either time-based vesting or vesting based on performance criteria. The contractual life of all options granted under these plans through July 3, 2004 is 10 years; options granted after July 3, 2004 have a contractual life of seven years. As of July 2, 2011, there were 652,097 remaining shares authorized and available for grant in total under the 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan.
Stock Options
     Certain of Sysco's option awards are subject to graded vesting over a service period. In those cases, Sysco recognizes compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. In other cases, certain of Sysco's option awards provide for graded vesting over a service period but include a performance-based provision allowing for accelerated vesting. In these cases, if it is probable that the performance condition will be met, Sysco recognizes compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the shorter performance period; otherwise, it will recognize compensation cost over the longer service period.
     In addition, certain of Sysco's options provide that the options continue to vest as if the optionee continued to be an employee or director if the optionee meets certain age and years of service thresholds upon retirement. In these cases, for awards granted through July 2, 2005, Sysco will recognize the compensation cost for such awards over the service period and accelerate any remaining unrecognized compensation cost when the employee retires. Due to the adoption of the fair value recognition provisions of the stock compensation accounting guidance, for awards granted subsequent to July 2, 2005, Sysco will recognize compensation cost for such awards over the period from the grant date to the date the employee or director first becomes eligible to retire with the options continuing to vest after retirement. If Sysco had recognized compensation cost for such awards over the period from the grant date to the date the employee or the director first became eligible to retire with the options continuing to vest after retirement for all periods presented, recognized compensation cost would not have been materially different for fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010. Recognized compensation cost would have been $3.5 million lower for fiscal 2009.
     The fair value of each option award is estimated as of the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted average assumptions for the periods indicated are noted in the following table. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Sysco's stock, implied volatilities from traded options on Sysco's stock and other factors. Sysco utilizes historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model; separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. Expected dividend yield is estimated based on the historical pattern of dividends and the average stock price for the year preceding the option grant. The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
     The following weighted-average assumptions were used for each fiscal year presented:
 
     The following summary presents information regarding outstanding options as of July 2, 2011 and changes during the fiscal year then ended with regard to options under all stock incentive plans:
     The total number of employee options granted was 7,190,250, 8,494,200 and 8,089,750 in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. During fiscal 2011, 1,423,000 options were granted to 11 executive officers and 5,767,250 options were granted to approximately 1,500 other key employees. During fiscal 2010, 1,451,500 options were granted to 12 executive officers and 7,042,700 options were granted to approximately 1,600 other key employees. During fiscal 2009, 1,395,000 options were granted to 12 executive officers and 6,694,750 options were granted to approximately 1,700 other key employees.
     The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $3.96, $4.53 and $5.88, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $45.5 million, $16.3 million and $24.4 million, respectively.
Restricted Stock Units
     During fiscal 2011 and 2010, 656,000 and 652,300 restricted stock units, respectively, were granted to employees that will vest ratably over a three-year period. The majority of these restricted stock units were granted with dividend equivalents. The fair value of each restricted stock unit award granted with a dividend equivalent is based on the company's stock price as of the date of grant. For restricted stock unit awards granted without dividend equivalents, the fair value was reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period. The weighted average grant-date fair value per share of restricted stock units granted during the fiscal 2011 and 2010 was $28.72 and $27.24, respectively.
Restricted Stock
     In fiscal 2009, 75,822 shares of restricted stock were granted to an executive officer. The fair value of these shares was $23.74 per share, which was based on the stock price on the grant date. These shares will vest ratably over a three-year period. In fiscal 2010, this executive officer announced his retirement, and 37,911 of the shares were forfeited according to the terms of the agreement. The remaining shares have vested according to the terms of the agreement as amended in connection with the executive officer's retirement.
Non-Employee Director Awards
     The 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan, as well as previous plans, provides for the issuance of restricted awards to current non-employee directors. During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, 60,973, 58,310 and 65,631 shares, respectively, of restricted awards were granted to non-employee directors. The awards granted in fiscal 2011 vest over a one-year period, and the awards granted in fiscal 2010 and 2009 vest over a three-year period. Beginning in fiscal 2011, the non-employee directors may elect to receive these awards in restricted stock shares that will vest at the end of the award's stated vesting period or as deferred units which convert into shares of Sysco common stock upon a date selected by the non-employee director that is subsequent to the award's stated vesting date. The fair value of the restricted awards is based on the company's stock price as of the date of grant. The weighted average grant-date fair value of the shares granted during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $28.87, $27.44 and $24.99, respectively.
     Under the 2009 Non-Employee Directors Stock Plan, non-employee directors may elect to receive up to 100% of their annual directors' fees in Sysco common stock on either an annual or deferred basis. Previous plans allowed for the election to receive up to 50% of annual directors' fees in Sysco common stock. Sysco provides a matching grant of 50% of the number of shares received for the stock election subject to certain limitations. As a result of such elections, a total of 27,979, 23,111 and 21,966 shares with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $29.26, $24.42 and $27.49 per share were issued in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in the form of fully vested common stock or deferred units.
 
Summary of Nonvested Awards
     The following summary presents information regarding outstanding nonvested awards as of July 2, 2011 and changes during the fiscal year then ended with regard to these awards under all stock incentive plans. Award types represented include: restricted stock units granted to employees, restricted stock granted to employees and restricted awards granted to non-employee directors.
Employees' Stock Purchase Plan
     Sysco has an Employees' Stock Purchase Plan that permits employees to invest in Sysco common stock by means of periodic payroll deductions at discount of 15% from the closing price on the last business day of each calendar quarter. In November 2010, the Employees' Stock Purchase Plan was amended to reserve an additional 5,000,000 shares of Sysco common stock for issuance under the plan. Including the additional 5,000,000 shares reserved in fiscal 2011, the total number of shares which may be sold pursuant to the plan may not exceed 79,000,000 shares, of which 6,902,496 remained available as of July 2, 2011.
     During fiscal 2011, 1,655,100 shares of Sysco common stock were purchased by the participants as compared to 1,827,386 shares purchased in fiscal 2010 and 2,031,695 shares purchased in fiscal 2009. In July 2011, 377,730 shares were purchased by participants.
     The weighted average fair value of employee stock purchase rights issued pursuant to the Employees' Stock Purchase Plan was $4.28, $3.87 and $3.85 per share during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The fair value of the stock purchase rights was calculated as the difference between the stock price at date of issuance and the employee purchase price.
Management Incentive Compensation
     Sysco's Management Incentive Plan compensates key management personnel for specific performance achievements. With respect to bonuses for fiscal 2008 and earlier years, the bonuses earned and expensed under this plan were paid in the following fiscal year in both cash and stock or deferred for payment in future years at the election of each participant. The stock awards under this plan immediately vested upon issuance; however, participants were restricted from selling, transferring, giving or otherwise conveying the shares for a period of two years from the date of issuance of such shares. The fair value of the stock issued under the Management Incentive Plan was based on the stock price less a 12% discount for post-vesting restrictions. The discount for post-vesting restrictions was estimated based on restricted stock studies and by calculating the cost of a hypothetical protective put option over the restriction period. In May 2008, the Management Incentive Plan was amended to remove the stock component of the bonus structure from all future bonuses granted. A total of 672,087 shares at a fair value of $28.22 were issued pursuant to this plan in fiscal 2009 for bonuses earned in the fiscal 2008, the final year the bonus included a stock component.
All Share-Based Payment Arrangements
     The total share-based compensation cost that has been recognized in results of operations was $59.2 million, $66.4 million and $56.0 million for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and is included within operating expenses in the consolidated results of operations. The total income tax benefit recognized in results of operations for share-based compensation arrangements was $18.2 million, $13.9 million and $9.9 million for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
     As of July 2, 2011, there was $61.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.62 years.
     Cash received from option exercises and purchases of shares under the Employees' Stock Purchase Plan was $332.7 million, $94.8 million and $111.8 million during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled $15.9 million, $5.4 million and $7.4 million during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
16. INCOME TAXES
Income Tax Provisions
     The income tax provision for each fiscal year consists of the following:
     The current and deferred components of the income tax provisions for each fiscal year are as follows:
     The deferred tax provisions result from the effects of net changes during the year in deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
Internal Revenue Service Settlement
     Sysco's affiliate, Baugh Supply Chain Cooperative (BSCC), was a cooperative taxed under subchapter T of the United States Internal Revenue Code, the operation of which has resulted in a deferral of tax payments. The IRS, in connection with its audits of the company's 2003 through 2006 federal income tax returns, proposed adjustments that would have accelerated amounts that the company had previously deferred and would have resulted in the payment of interest on those deferred amounts. Sysco reached a settlement with the IRS in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 to cease paying U.S. federal taxes related to BSCC on a deferred basis, pay the amounts that were recorded within deferred taxes related to BSCC over a three-year period and make a one-time payment of $41.0 million, of which approximately $39.0 million was non-deductible. The settlement addressed the BSCC deferred tax issue as it related to the IRS audit of the company's 2003 through 2006 federal income tax returns, and settled the matter for all subsequent periods, including the 2007 and 2008 federal income tax returns already under audit. As a result of the settlement, the company agreed to pay the amounts owed in the following schedule:
     As noted in the table above, payments related to the settlement were $212.0 million and $528.0 million in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. Remaining amounts to be paid in 2012 will be paid in connection with the company's quarterly tax payments, two of which fall in the second quarter, one in the third quarter and one in the fourth quarter. The company believes it has access to sufficient cash on hand, cash flows from operations and current access to capital to make payments on all of the amounts noted above. The company had previously accrued interest for a portion of the exposure pertaining to the IRS proposed adjustments and as a result of the settlement with the IRS, Sysco recorded an income tax benefit of approximately $29.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
     Sysco's deferred taxes were impacted by the timing of these installment payments. Sysco reclassified amounts due within one year from deferred taxes to accrued income taxes at the beginning of each of fiscal 2011 and 2010. Additionally, beginning in fiscal 2009, the company is not deferring taxes for federal purposes according to its agreement with the IRS.
 
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
     Significant components of Sysco's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
     The company had state net operating tax loss carryforwards as of July 2, 2011 and state and Canadian net operating tax loss carryforwards as of July 3, 2010. The net operating tax loss carryforwards outstanding as of July 2, 2011 expire in fiscal years 2012 through 2031. There were no valuation allowances recorded for the state tax loss carryforwards as of July 2, 2011 because management believes it is more likely than not that these benefits will be realized based on utilization forecasts. Valuation allowances of $19.8 million were recorded for the state tax loss carryforwards as of July 3, 2010, as management believed that it was more likely than not that a portion of the benefits of these state tax loss carryforwards would not be realized.
Effective Tax Rates
     Reconciliations of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rates for each fiscal year are as follows:
     The effective tax rate of 36.96% for fiscal 2011 was favorably impacted primarily by two items. First, the company recorded a tax benefit of approximately $17.0 million for the reversal of valuation allowances previously recorded on state net operating loss carryforwards. Second, the company adjusted the carrying values of the company's COLI policies to their cash surrender values. The gain of $28.2 million recorded in fiscal 2011 was primarily non-taxable for income tax purposes, and had the impact of decreasing income tax expense for the period by $11.1 million. Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was the recording of $9.3 million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax positions.
 
     The effective tax rate of 36.20% for fiscal 2010 was favorably impacted primarily by two items. First, as discussed above, the company recorded an income tax benefit of approximately $29.0 million resulting from the one-time reversal of previously accrued interest related to the settlement with the IRS. Second, the gain of $21.6 million recorded to adjust the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values in fiscal 2010 was non-taxable for income tax purposes, and had the impact of decreasing income tax expense for the period by $8.3 million.
     The effective tax rate of 40.37% for fiscal 2009 was unfavorably impacted primarily by two factors. First, the company recorded tax adjustments related to federal and state uncertain tax positions of $31.0 million. Second, the loss of $43.8 million recorded to adjust the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values in fiscal 2009 was non-deductible for income tax purposes, and had the impact of increasing income tax expense for the period by $16.8 million. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2009 was favorably impacted by the reversal of valuation allowances of $7.8 million previously recorded on Canadian net operating loss deferred tax assets.
Uncertain Tax Positions
     A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, is as follows:
     As of July 2, 2011, $15.9 million of the gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits was netted within prepaid income taxes relating to a payment that occurred during fiscal 2011; however, the liability is considered outstanding until the matters have been settled with the respective jurisdiction. As of July 2, 2011, the gross amount of liability for accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits was $33.2 million, of which $8.7 million was netted within prepaid income taxes relating to a payment that occurred during fiscal 2011; however, the liability is considered outstanding until the matters have been settled with the respective jurisdiction. The expense recorded for interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in fiscal 2011 was $7.2 million.
     As of July 3, 2010, $15.9 million of the gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits was netted within prepaid income taxes as payment was expected to occur during fiscal 2011. As of July 3, 2010, the gross amount of liability for accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits was $40.6 million, of which $8.7 million was netted within prepaid income taxes as payment was expected to occur during fiscal 2011. The expense recorded for interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in fiscal 2010 was $12.0 million.
     If Sysco were to recognize all unrecognized tax benefits recorded as of July 2, 2011, approximately $40.1 million of the $72.1 million reserve would reduce the effective tax rate. It is reasonably possible that the amount of the unrecognized tax benefits with respect to certain of the company's unrecognized tax positions will increase or decrease in the next twelve months either because Sysco's positions are sustained on audit or because the company agrees to their disallowance. Items that may cause changes to unrecognized tax benefits primarily include the consideration of various filing requirements in various states and the allocation of income and expense between tax jurisdictions. In addition, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits recognized within the next twelve months may decrease due to the expiration of the statute of limitations for certain years in various jurisdictions; however, it is possible that a jurisdiction may open an audit on one of these years prior to the statute of limitations expiring. At this time, an estimate of the range of the reasonably possible change cannot be made.
     The IRS is auditing Sysco's 2009 and 2010 federal income tax returns. As of July 2, 2011, Sysco's tax returns in the majority of the state and local jurisdictions and Canada are no longer subject to audit for the years before 2006. However, some jurisdictions have audits open prior to 2006, with the earliest dating back to 2002. Certain tax jurisdictions require partial to full payment on audit assessments in order to proceed to the appeals process. Although the outcome of tax audits is generally uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax, including interest and penalties, have been accrued for any adjustments that may result from those open years.
 
Other
     Undistributed income of certain consolidated foreign subsidiaries at July 2, 2011 amounted to $544.0 million for which no deferred U.S. income tax provision has been recorded because Sysco intends to permanently reinvest such income in those foreign operations. An estimate of any U.S. taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may be applicable upon actual or deemed repatriation is not practical.
17. ACQUISITIONS
     During fiscal 2011, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $101.1 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2011 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2011, Sysco acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations in central California; Los Angeles, California; Ontario, Canada; Lincoln, Nebraska and Trenton, New Jersey. The fiscal 2011 acquisitions were immaterial, individually and in the aggregate, to the consolidated financial statements.
     Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration typically payable over periods up to five years only in the event that certain outstanding contingencies are resolved. As of July 2, 2011, aggregate contingent consideration amounts outstanding relating to acquisitions was $56.6 million, of which $46.0 million could result in the recording of additional goodwill.
18. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Legal Proceedings
     Sysco is engaged in various legal proceedings which have arisen but have not been fully adjudicated. Management does not believe that these proceedings will have a material adverse effect upon the consolidated financial position or results of operations of the company. However, the final results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty and if the company failed to prevail in one or more of these legal matters, the company's consolidated financial position or results of operations could be materially adversely affected in future periods.
Multi-Employer Pension Plans
     Sysco contributes to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. Approximately 10% of Sysco's current employees are participants in such multi-employer plans. In fiscal 2011, total contributions to these plans were approximately $32.8 million.
     Sysco does not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other employers contributing to the plan. Based upon the information available from plan administrators, management believes that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. In addition, pension-related legislation, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. As a result, Sysco expects its contributions to these plans to increase in the future.
     Under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan's termination, Sysco's voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require Sysco to make payments to the plan for Sysco's proportionate share of the multi-employer plan's unfunded vested liabilities. Generally, Sysco does not have the greatest share of liability among the participants in any of the plans in which it participates. Based on the information available from plan administrators, which has valuation dates ranging from January 31, 2009 to December 31, 2009, Sysco estimates its share of withdrawal liability on most of the multi-employer plans in which it participates could have been as much as $200.0 million as of July 2, 2011, based on a voluntary withdrawal. This estimate excludes plans for which Sysco has recorded withdrawal liabilities. The majority of the plans Sysco participates in have a valuation date of calendar year-end. As such, the majority of the estimated withdrawal liability results from plans for which the valuation date was December 31, 2009; therefore, the company's estimated liability reflects the asset losses incurred by the financial markets as of that date. Due to the lack of current information, management believes Sysco's current share of the withdrawal liability could materially differ from this estimate. In addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the IRS may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund.
     In the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the union members of one of the company's subsidiaries voted to withdraw from the union's multi-employer pension plan and join Sysco's company-sponsored Retirement Plan. This action triggered a partial withdrawal from the multi-employer pension plan. As a result, during the third quarter of fiscal 2011, Sysco recorded a withdrawal liability provision of approximately $36.1 million related to this plan. Sysco has experienced other instances triggering voluntary withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans. Total withdrawal liability provisions recorded include $41.5 million in fiscal 2011, $2.9 million in fiscal 2010 and $9.6 million in fiscal 2009. As of July 2, 2011, Sysco had approximately $42.4 million in liabilities recorded related to certain multi-employer defined benefit plans for which Sysco's voluntary withdrawal had already occurred, which includes the
 
liability recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2011. Recorded withdrawal liabilities are estimated at the time of withdrawal based on the most recently available valuation and participant data for the respective plans; amounts are adjusted up to the period of payment to reflect any changes to these estimates. If any of these plans were to undergo a mass withdrawal, as defined by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, within a two year time frame from the point of our withdrawal, Sysco could have additional liability. The company does not currently believe any mass withdrawals are probable to occur in the applicable two year time frame relating to the plans from which Sysco has voluntarily withdrawn.
     During fiscal 2008, the company obtained information that a multi-employer pension plan it participated in failed to satisfy minimum funding requirements for certain periods and concluded that it was probable that additional funding would be required as well as the payment of excise tax. As a result, during fiscal 2008, Sysco recorded a liability of approximately $16.5 million related to its share of the minimum funding requirements and related excise tax for these periods. During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, Sysco effectively withdrew from this multi-employer pension plan in an effort to secure benefits for Sysco's employees that were participants in the plan and to manage the company's exposure to this under-funded plan. Sysco agreed to pay $15.0 million to the plan, which included the minimum funding requirements. In connection with this withdrawal agreement, Sysco merged participants from this plan into its company-sponsored Retirement Plan and assumed $26.7 million in liabilities. The payment to the plan was made in the second quarter of fiscal 2009.
Fuel Commitments
     Sysco routinely enters into forward purchase commitments for a portion of its projected diesel fuel requirements. As of July 2, 2011, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $85.6 million through June 2012.
Other Commitments
     Sysco has committed to product purchases for resale in order to leverage the company's purchasing power. A majority of these agreements expire within one year; however, certain agreements have terms through fiscal 2013. These agreements commit the company to a minimum volume at various pricing terms, including fixed pricing, variable pricing or a combination thereof. Minimum amounts committed to as of July 2, 2011 totaled approximately $949.3 million. Minimum amounts committed to by year are as follows: $858.0 million in fiscal 2012 and $91.3 million in fiscal 2013.
     Sysco has committed with a third party service provider to provide hardware and hardware hosting services. The services are to be provided over a ten year period beginning in fiscal 2005 and ending in fiscal 2015. The total cost of the services over that period is expected to be approximately $553.4 million. This amount may be reduced by Sysco utilizing less than estimated resources and can be increased by Sysco utilizing more than estimated resources and the adjustments for inflation provided for in the agreements. Sysco may also cancel a portion or all of the services provided subject to termination fees which decrease over time. If Sysco were to terminate all of the services in fiscal 2012, the estimated termination fee incurred in fiscal 2012 would be approximately $13.6 million.
19. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
     The company has aggregated its operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined in the accounting literature related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise. The Broadline reportable segment is an aggregation of the company's United States, Canadian and European Broadline segments. Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to its customers. SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations. "Other" financial information is attributable to the company's other operating segments, including the company's specialty produce and lodging industry segments and a company that distributes to international customers.
     Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2012, operating segment results no longer include certain centrally incurred costs for corporate overhead and shared services due to a change in how management evaluates the performance of each of the operating segments. Previously, these centrally incurred costs were charged to the segments based upon the relative level of service used by each operating segment. Management now evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results, which excludes the allocation of certain centrally incurred costs. This results in higher operating income at an operating segment level and higher corporate expenses. Segment reporting for the comparable prior year period has been revised to conform to the new basis of determining segment operating income without the allocation of certain centrally incurred costs. Corporate expenses generally include all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco's shared service center. These also include all share-based compensation costs and expenses related to the company's Business Transformation Project.
     Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the company's custom-cut meat operations were reorganized to function as part of the United States Broadline segment. As a result, the custom-cut meat operations are included in the Broadline reportable segment in the segment reporting presented below. Previously, these operations were an independent segment and were presented with the
 
"Other" financial information relating to non-reportable segments. Segment reporting for the comparable prior year periods has been revised to conform to the new classification of the custom-cut meat operations as part of the Broadline reportable segment.
     The following table sets forth the financial information for Sysco's business segments:
 
     The sales mix for the principal product categories for each fiscal year is as follows:
     Information concerning geographic areas is as follows:
 
 
20. SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR INFORMATION  PARENT GUARANTEE
     Sysco International, ULC. is an unlimited liability company organized under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sysco. In May 2002, Sysco International, Co., now known as Sysco International ULC, issued, in a private offering, $200.0 million of 6.10% notes due in 2012 (see Note 10, "Debt"). In December 2002, these notes were exchanged for substantially identical notes in an exchange offer registered under the Securities Act of 1933. These notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Sysco. Sysco International, ULC. is a holding company with no significant sources of income or assets, other than its equity interests in its subsidiaries and interest income from loans made to its subsidiaries. The proceeds from the issuance of the 6.10% notes were used to repay commercial paper issued to fund the fiscal 2002 acquisition of a Canadian broadline foodservice operation.
     The following condensed consolidating financial statements present separately the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the parent guarantor (Sysco), the subsidiary issuer (Sysco International) and all other non-guarantor subsidiaries of Sysco (Other Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries) on a combined basis and eliminating entries.
 
 
 
21. SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR INFORMATION  SUBSIDIARY GUARANTEES
     On January 19, 2011, the wholly-owned U.S. Broadline subsidiaries of Sysco Corporation entered into full and unconditional guarantees of all outstanding senior notes and debentures of Sysco Corporation. As of July 2, 2011, Sysco had a total of approximately $2,225.0 million in senior notes and debentures outstanding that are covered by this guarantee.
     The following condensed consolidating financial statements present separately the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the parent issuer (Sysco Corporation), the guarantors (U.S. Broadline subsidiaries) and all other non-guarantor subsidiaries of Sysco (Other Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries) on a combined basis with eliminating entries.
 
 
 
22. QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
     Financial information for each quarter in the years ended July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010 is set forth below:
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
Quarterly Segment Operating Income for the period ending July 2, 2011 (Unaudited)
     The schedule below presents operating income by segment using the accounting policies that are the same as those disclosed by Sysco within the consolidated financial statements provided in Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K, and the information set forth below should be read in conjunction with Note 19 of such financial statements, which sets forth more detailed information about our segments and the expenses included in corporate expenses.
     Beginning with the third quarter of fiscal 2011, U.S. Meat operations are included in the Broadline segment. The schedule below reflects this change for the 13-week periods ended October 2, 2010 and January 1, 2011.








