FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20111116080034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8  OTHER EVENTS
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
Approval of New Share Repurchase Program
On November 15, 2011, the Board of Directors of Sysco approved a 20-million-share repurchase program. The approved program is Sysco's seventeenth share repurchase program since fiscal 1992. Sysco's previously approved 20-million-share repurchase program from August 2010 has approximately 6.2 million shares remaining. These remaining shares will be repurchased prior to the initiation of the new program. Under the new repurchase program, shares will be acquired in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions at the Company's discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors, and in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. The Company may use 10b5-1 plans from time to time in connection with its repurchases. Sysco's current intent is to manage the share repurchase program in order to keep the number of diluted shares outstanding relatively constant by offsetting benefit plan share and option issuances.
Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding future decisions related to share repurchases and Sysco's goal of keeping the number of diluted shares outstanding relatively constant. These statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on management's current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially. The amount of shares repurchased in a given period and the timing of any repurchases are subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, the trading price of Sysco common stock, available cash and our general working capital needs at the time. Additional risks that could cause the events addressed in these forward looking statements not to occur as expected are detailed in the press release filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Sysco's business is also subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those risk factors detailed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 2, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
ITEM 9.01 EXHIBITS.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced that the Board of Directors has approved a four percent increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $0.27 per share from the current $0.26 per share. The new dividend is payable on January 27, 2012, to common shareholders of record at the close of business on January 6, 2012.
HOUSTON, November 16, 2011 
"The dividend increase announced today underscores Sysco's long-standing commitment to return value to its shareholders," said Bill DeLaney, Sysco's president and chief executive officer. "Sysco has paid a quarterly cash dividend every quarter since its founding as a public company in 1970 and has increased its dividend 43 times in that period."
Additionally, Sysco's Board of Directors has approved a 20-million-share repurchase program. The approved program is intended to help the company achieve its goal of keeping the number of diluted shares outstanding relatively constant and is Sysco's seventeenth share repurchase program since fiscal 1992. The company's previously approved 20-million-share repurchase program from August 2010 has approximately 5.3 million shares remaining. These remaining shares will be repurchased prior to the initiation of the new program.
About Sysco
Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 177 distribution facilities serving approximately 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2011 that ended July 2, 2011 the company generated record sales of more than $39 billion. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at and for investor relations news follow us at .
www.sysco.com
www.twitter.com/SyscoStock
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made herein are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements regarding the approval by Sysco's Board of Directors of a 20-million-share repurchase program. Announcement of this program is in no way a promise or guarantee that actual stock repurchases will
approximate this amount, and actual repurchases could be significantly less or greater than 20 million shares. The repurchase of these shares may not occur as and when expected, if at all, and, together with the Company's business, statements regarding the share repurchase program are subject to various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include that, even though Sysco is authorized to purchase up to 20 million shares of its common stock, Sysco may choose to use its available cash for other business, including the Business Transformation Project. Future events could cause Sysco to contract or expand this program. Sysco may choose to pursue strategic business opportunities, investments and acquisitions that may require a disproportionate amount of cash in comparison to the cash that is allocated to the stock repurchase program. Also, variances in Sysco's stock price may cause stock repurchases to become a less attractive use of capital in the near term. Further, material business developments that could arise from time to time could prohibit the Company from buying shares in the public market until such developments are publicly disclosed. Sysco's decisions regarding the use of its cash and other assets remain subject to change based on the changing dynamics of our Company and the economy in general, and Sysco may consider expanding its stock repurchase program if it believes that an expansion is a desirable use of available cash. For a discussion of additional factors impacting Sysco's business, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 2, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


