FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20120206100156.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On February 6, 2012, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") held its second quarter fiscal 2012 earnings conference call and posted slides on its website at under Investor Relations in conjunction with the call. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in the slides (the "Slides"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
www.sysco.com
Except for the historical information contained in the Slides, the statements made by Sysco are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Slides. Forward-looking statements in the Slides are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Slides. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information in this Item 7.01 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this report, including the Slides attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 



