FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20120813090142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
On August 13, 2012, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated August 13, 2012 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed on or around August 28, 2012 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.
The information in this Item 2.02 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
SECTION 9FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week fourth quarter, and 52-week fiscal year 2012, ending June 30, 2012.
HOUSTON, August 13, 2012
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Full Year Fiscal 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Market conditions remained challenging throughout the year due to increasing product costs and an uneven economic recovery. Nevertheless, we successfully supported our customers and grew our share of market," said Bill DeLaney, Sysco's president and chief executive officer. "We are making meaningful progress on our business transformation initiatives and believe the benefits will both improve our financial performance over time and further enhance our leadership position in the industry."
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2012 Summary
Sales for the fourth quarter were $11.0 billion, an increase of 5.9% compared to sales in the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as measured by the estimated change in Sysco's product costs, was 3.3%. Inflation in the fourth quarter was mainly driven by increases in the poultry, meat and canned/dry goods categories. Sales from acquisitions (within the last 12 months) increased sales by 0.6%, and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates for the fourth quarter decreased sales by 0.5%. Case volume for the company's Broadline and SYGMA operations combined grew 3.4% during the quarter including acquisitions, and 3.3% excluding acquisitions.
Gross profit for the fourth quarter was $2.0 billion, an increase of 2.9%, compared to the prior year. Operating expenses in the fourth quarter increased $103 million, or 7.4%, compared to operating expenses in the prior year period. This was due in part to a $38 million increase in gross business transformation expenses, a $20 million increase in payroll expense, and a $6 million increase in fuel expense. The increase also included certain items in the fourth quarter totaling $23 million which were primarily related to an MEPP withdrawal thus creating an unfavorable year-over-year variance.
Adjusted operating expenses were $1.4 billion, an increase of 3.3% from the same period last year.
Operating income was $515 million in the fourth quarter, decreasing $45 million, or 8.1% compared to operating income in the prior year. Adjusted operating income was $608 million, an increase of 2.2% from the same period last year.
Net earnings for the fourth quarter were $309 million, a decrease of $27 million, or 8.0%, compared to net earnings in the prior year. Diluted EPS in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 was $0.53 which was a decrease of 7.0% compared to last year's fourth quarter. Excluding certain items, diluted EPS was $0.55, a decrease of 1.8% compared to the prior year period. Further adjusting for business transformation expenses and the impact of COLI, adjusted diluted EPS was $0.62, which was an increase of 3.3% compared to the prior year period.
Fiscal 2012 Summary
Sales for fiscal 2012 were $42.4 billion, an increase of 7.8% compared to sales in the same period last year. Food cost inflation for the period was 5.5%. Inflation for the fiscal year period was broad based, driven mainly by increased prices in the meat, canned/dry and frozen categories. Inflation declined steadily throughout the year from a high of 7.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. In addition, sales from acquisitions (within the last 12 months) increased sales by 0.7%.The impact of foreign exchange rates was not meaningful to the change in sales for fiscal 2012. Case volume for the company's Broadline and SYGMA operations combined grew 3.0% during fiscal year 2012 including acquisitions, and 2.5% excluding acquisitions.
 
Gross profit for fiscal 2012 was $7.7 billion, an increase of 3.8%, compared to the prior year. Operating expenses increased $323 million, or 5.9%, compared to operating expenses in the prior year period. This was due mainly to a $147 million increase in payroll expense, a $91 million increase in gross business transformation expenses and a $40 million increase in fuel expense. These increases were partially offset by a $27 million decline in corporate sponsored pension plan expense and a $20 million decline in charges related to MEPP withdrawals in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011.
Adjusted operating expenses were $5.6 billion an increase of 4.1% from the prior year.
Operating income was $1.9 billion in fiscal year 2012, which was a decrease of 2.1%, compared to operating income in the prior year. Adjusted operating income was $2.1 billion an increase of 3.0% from the prior year.
Net earnings for the fiscal year 2012 were $1.1 billion, a decrease of $30 million, or 2.6%, compared to net earnings in the prior year period. Diluted EPS in fiscal 2012 was $1.90, which was a 3.1% decrease, compared to last year's diluted EPS of $1.96. Excluding certain items, diluted EPS was $1.93, a decrease of 2.5%. Further adjusting for business transformation expenses and the impact of COLI, adjusted diluted EPS was $2.13, an increase of 4.4% compared to the prior year period.
Cash Flow and Capital Spending
Cash flow from operations was $1.4 billion for the fiscal 2012, a 29% increase compared to $1.1 billion in the prior year period. Capital expenditures totaled $152 million for the fourth quarter, and $785 million in the fiscal year. This includes spending related to the company's business transformation project of $23 million for the fourth quarter and $146 million for fiscal 2012. The primary areas for investment included facility replacements and expansions, replacements to Sysco's fleet, and technology.
Free cash flow increased to $620 million in Fiscal 2012 from $455 million in Fiscal 2011, an increase of 36%.
Conference Call & Webcast
Sysco's fourth quarter fiscal 2012 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, August 13, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern.
For purposes of public disclosure, Sysco plans to use the investor relations portion of its website as a primary channel for publishing key information to its investors, some of which may contain material and previously non-public information. As a result, a live webcast of the call, a copy of this press release and a slide presentation, will be available online at in the Investors section. We encourage investors to consult that section of our website regularly for important information about us.
www.sysco.com
About Sysco
Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 185 distribution facilities serving over 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2012
 
that ended June 30, 2012 the company generated record sales of over $42 billion. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at . For investor relations news follow us at or download the new Sysco IR App, available on the iTunes App Store and the Google Play Market.
www.sysco.com
www.twitter.com/SyscoStock
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements made in this press release that look forward in time or that express management's beliefs, expectations or hopes are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements reflect the views of management at the time such statements are made and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, estimates, and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These statements include those regarding our business transformation initiatives and our belief regarding the benefits of these initiatives with respect to our financial performance over time and our leadership position in the industry. The success of our business transformation initiatives is subject to the general risks associated with our business, including the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise, inflation risks, the impact of fuel prices, and labor issues. Additionally, certain agricultural areas of the United States experienced severe drought in the summer of 2012, and we may experience increased input costs for a large portion of the products we sell for up to a one year period as a result. Risks and uncertainties also include risks impacting the economy generally, including the risk that the current economic downturn will continue, or that consumer confidence in the economy may not increase and decreases in consumer spending, particularly on food prepared outside the home, may not reverse. Also, there are risks related to our Business Transformation Project, including that the expected costs of our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2013 may be greater or less than currently expected because we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including the incurrence of expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated; the risk that our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation and deployment process; and the risk of adverse effects if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or result in the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate. In fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, we took additional time to test and improve the underlying ERP system prior to larger scale development, and these actions caused a delay in the project; we may experience further delays and/or cost overages as we deploy the system on a larger scale. Other aspects of our business transformation initiatives, including our category management initiative and our cost transformation initiative, may fail to provide the expected benefits in a timely fashion, if at all. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including risks related to the implementation of our Business Transformation Project and our regional distribution centers, the timing and successful completions of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending. Fuel expense may vary from projections based on fluctuations in fuel costs, which are impacted by general economic conditions beyond our control. In the past, increased fuel prices have significantly increased our costs and reduced consumers' demand for meals served away from home. For a discussion of additional factors impacting Sysco's business, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 2, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed on or around August 29, 2012 for the year ended June 30, 2012. Sysco does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)
 
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.
 
Data excludes U.S. Meat operations
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
Non-GAAP Reconciliation (Unaudited)
Impact of Certain Items and Underlying Business
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
Sysco's results of operations are impacted by certain items which include charges from the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans, restructuring charges and recognized tax benefits. Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove these certain items provides an important perspective with respect to our results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that removes these items which are difficult to predict and are often unanticipated, and which, as a result are difficult to include in analyst's financial models and our investors' expectations with any degree of specificity. Sysco believes the adjusted totals facilitate comparison on a year-over year basis.
Sysco's results of operations are further impacted by costs from our multi-year Business Transformation Project and gains from our COLI policies. Near the end of fiscal 2011, we reallocated all of our investments in our COLI policies into low-risk, fixed-income securities and therefore we do not expect significant volatility in operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share in future periods related to these policies. We experienced significant gains in these policies during fiscal 2011 with the exception of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. Management believes that further adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove the impact of the Business Transformation Project expenses and COLI gains provides an important perspective with respect to underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company's underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over year basis.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. These financial measures should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company's results of operations for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. As a result, in the tables that follow, each period presented is adjusted to remove the certain items noted above. Each period has been further adjusted to remove expenses related to the Business Transformation Project and gains recorded on the adjustments to the carrying value of COLI policies.
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
Non-GAAP Reconciliation (Unaudited)
Impact of Certain Items and Underlying Business
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
 
 


