FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20121105090300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
On November 5, 2012, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter ended September 29, 2012 of the fiscal year ending June 29, 2013. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated November 5, 2012 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information in this Item 2.02 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
SECTION 9  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
Not applicable.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
Not applicable.
(c) Shell Company Transactions.
Not applicable.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week first fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2012.
HOUSTON, November 5, 2012 
First Quarter Fiscal 2013 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
"Solid sales growth and effective overall operating expense management contributed to increased adjusted EPS in our underlying business for the quarter. Volume gains drove our top line growth as food cost inflation moderated from the historically high levels experienced in recent quarters," said Bill DeLaney, Sysco's president and chief executive officer. "Regarding our multiyear business transformation initiative, we recently achieved a significant milestone by successfully and simultaneously deploying for the first time our new technology platform in two operating companies."
First Quarter Fiscal 2013 Summary
Sales for the first quarter were $11.1 billion, an increase of 4.7% compared to sales in the same period last year. Food cost inflation was 2.2%, as measured by the estimated change in Sysco's product costs, driven mainly by inflation in the meat and poultry categories, partially offset by deflation in the dairy category. In
 
 
addition, sales from acquisitions (within the last 12 months) increased sales by 0.5%, and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates for the first quarter decreased sales by 0.3%. Case volume for the company's Broadline and SYGMA operations combined grew 2.9% during the quarter, including acquisitions, and 2.6%, excluding acquisitions.
Gross profit for the first quarter was $2.0 billion, an increase of 2.9%, compared to the prior year. Operating expenses in the first quarter increased $87 million, or 6.0%, compared to operating expenses in the prior year period. This was due mainly to a $41 million increase in gross business transformation expenses and a $30 million increase in payroll expense. Excluding certain items and business transformation expenses, adjusted operating expenses increased 3.2%.
Operating income was $479 million in the first quarter, decreasing $31 million, or 6.0% compared to operating income in the prior year. Excluding certain items and business transformation expenses, adjusted operating income increased 2.0%.
Net earnings for the first quarter were $287 million, a decrease of $16 million, or 5.3%, compared to the prior year. Diluted EPS in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 was $0.49, which was 3.9% lower compared to last year's first quarter. Excluding certain items and business transformation expenses, adjusted diluted EPS was $0.58, which was an increase of 3.6% compared to the prior year.
Cash Flow and Capital Spending
Cash flow from operations was $213 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2013, compared to $255 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. The decline was primarily related to increased tax payments. Capital expenditures totaled $156 million for the first quarter. The primary areas for investment included facility replacements and expansions, replacements to Sysco's fleet, and technology.
Free cash flow doubled in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 to $58 million compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
Conference Call & Webcast
Sysco's first quarter fiscal 2013 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, November 5, 2012, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern. A live webcast of the call, a copy of this press release and a slide presentation, will be available online at in the Investors section.
www.sysco.com
About Sysco
Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 185 distribution facilities serving over 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2012 that ended June 30, 2012, the company generated record sales of over $42 billion. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at . For investor relations news follow us at or download the new Sysco IR App, available on the and the .
www.sysco.com
www.twitter.com/SyscoStock
iTunes App Store
Google Play Market
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements made in this press release or in our earnings call for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 that look forward in time or that express management's beliefs, expectations or hopes are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements reflect the views of management at the time such statements are made and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, estimates, and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. The success of our business transformation initiatives is subject to the general risks associated with our business, including the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise, inflation risks, the impact of fuel prices, and labor issues. Additionally, certain agricultural areas of the United States experienced severe drought in the summer of 2012, and we may experience increased input costs for a large portion of the products we sell for up to a one year period as a result. Risks and uncertainties also include risks impacting the economy generally, including the risk that the current economic downturn will continue, or that consumer confidence in the economy may not increase and decreases in consumer spending, particularly on food prepared outside the home, may not reverse. Also, there are risks related to our Business Transformation Project, including that the expected costs of our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2013 may be greater or less than currently expected because we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including the incurrence of expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated; the risk that our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation and deployment process; and the risk of adverse effects if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or result in the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate. In fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, we took additional time to test and improve the underlying ERP system prior to larger scale development, and these actions caused a delay in the project; we may experience further delays and/or cost overages as we deploy the system on a larger scale. Planned conversions in the coming quarters and the potential acceleration of the rate of conversions is dependent upon the success of current conversions and plans are subject to change at any time based on management's subjective evaluation of our overall business needs. Other aspects of our business transformation initiatives, including our category management initiative and our cost transformation initiative, may fail to provide the expected benefits in a timely fashion, if at all. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including risks related to the implementation of our Business Transformation Project and our regional distribution centers, the timing and successful completions of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending. Current projections regarding industry growth may change and growth in the industry is subject to factors beyond our control. Our expectations regarding sales from acquisitions and the timing of acquisitions and related benefits may not occur as expected, if at all. Acquisitions may not close, or may be delayed, because of factors beyond our control, including the need for regulatory approvals. We may not be successful in completing potential acquisitions that are currently in the pipeline and, as such, may not realize the expected benefits from these potential acquisitions. Fuel expense may vary from projections based on fluctuations in fuel costs, which are impacted by general economic conditions beyond our control. In the past, increased fuel prices have significantly increased our costs and reduced consumers' demand for meals served away from home. For a discussion of additional factors impacting Sysco's business, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Company's subsequent filings with the SEC. Sysco does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)
 
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.
 
Data excludes U.S. Meat operations
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
Non-GAAP Reconciliation (Unaudited)
Impact of Certain Items and Underlying Business
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
Sysco's results of operations are impacted by certain items which include charges from the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans, severance charges and charges from facility closures. Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove these certain items provides an important perspective with respect to our results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that removes these items which are difficult to predict and are often unanticipated, and which, as a result are difficult to include in analyst's financial models and our investors' expectations with any degree of specificity. Sysco believes the adjusted totals facilitate comparison on a year-over year basis.
Sysco's results of operations are further impacted by costs from our multi-year Business Transformation Project. Management believes that further adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove the impact of the Business Transformation Project expenses provides an important perspective with respect to underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company's underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over year basis.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. These financial measures should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company's results of operations for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. As a result, in the tables that follow, each period presented is adjusted to remove the certain items noted above. Each period has been further adjusted to remove expenses related to the Business Transformation Project.
 
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
Non-GAAP Reconciliation (Unaudited)
Free Cash Flow
(In Thousands)
Free cash flow represents net cash provided from operating activities less purchases of plant and equipment. Sysco considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of buildings, fleet, equipment and technology, which may potentially be used to pay for, among other things, strategic uses of cash including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions. We do not mean to imply that free cash flow is necessarily available for discretionary expenditures, however, as it may be neccessary that we use it to make mandatory debt service or other payments. Free cash flow should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company's liquidity for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. In the table that follows, free cash flow for each period presented is reconciled to net cash provided by operating activities.
 
 


