FILE:SYY/SYY-8K-20120508173058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 7, 2012, Sysco Corporation ("Sysco") issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter ended March 31, 2012 of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. Sysco hereby incorporates by reference herein the information set forth in its press release dated May 7, 2012 (the "Press Release"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Except for the historical information contained in this report, the statements made by Sysco are forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. All such statements are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Sysco's future financial performance could differ significantly from the expectations of management and from results expressed or implied in the Press Release. Forward-looking statements in the Press Release are subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in the Press Release. For further information on other risk factors, please refer to the "Risk Factors" contained in Sysco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The information in this Item 2.02 is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 2.02 of this report, including the Press Release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Sysco under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
Not applicable.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sysco Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sysco Corporation (NYSE: SYY) today announced financial results for its 13-week third fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2012.
HOUSTON, May 7, 2012 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Year-To-Date Fiscal 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
"I am pleased with our volume growth trends as we grew our business throughout the quarter by remaining focused on supporting the success of our customers," said Bill DeLaney, Sysco's president and chief executive officer. "Adjusted earnings growth fell short of our expectations, however, and our leadership team is fully committed to improving upon this aspect of our performance as we complete our fourth quarter and approach the beginning of the new fiscal year."
1
"Adjusted" financial results are non-GAAP financial measures. See Non-GAAP Reconciliations on page 9 for more information.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Summary
Sales for the third quarter were $10.5 billion, an increase of 7.6% compared to sales in the same period last year. Food cost inflation, as measured by the estimated change in Sysco's product costs, was 5.5%. While the company's overall rate of inflation has recently eased somewhat, inflation remains at a high level, with double-digit price increases in the meat and poultry categories. Sales from acquisitions (within the last 12 months) increased sales by 0.7%, and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates for the third quarter decreased sales by 0.2%. Case volume for the company's Broadline and SYGMA operations combined grew 2.9% during the quarter including acquisitions, and 2.3% excluding acquisitions.
Gross profit for the third quarter was $1.9 billion, an increase of 2.1%, compared to the prior year. Operating expenses in the third quarter increased $28 million, or 2.0%, compared to operating expenses in the prior year period. This was due mainly to a $29 million increase in payroll expense, a $24 million increase in gross business transformation expenses and a $10 million increase in fuel expense. These increases were partially offset by a $36 million charge in the prior year quarter related to the withdrawal of an operating company from a multi-employer pension plan (MEPP), which created a favorable year-over-year variance. Adjusted operating expenses increased 2.6%.
Operating income was $439 million in the third quarter, increasing $11 million, or 2.7% compared to operating income in the prior year. Adjusted operating income increased 0.9%.
Net earnings for the third quarter were $260 million, an increase of $1 million, or 0.4%, compared to net earnings in the prior year. Diluted EPS in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 was $0.44 which was flat compared to last year's third quarter. Adjusted EPS was $0.49, an increase of 2.1% compared to the prior year period.
Year-To-Date Fiscal 2012 Summary
Sales for the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2012 were $31.3 billion, an increase of 8.4% compared to sales in the same period last year. Food cost inflation for the period was 6.3%. Inflation continued to be broad-based, but was impacted most significantly by increased prices for meat and canned/dry products. In addition, sales from acquisitions (within the last 12 months) increased sales by 0.7%, and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates for the first 39 weeks increased sales by 0.1%. Case volume for the company's Broadline and SYGMA operations combined grew 2.7% during the first 39 weeks including acquisitions, and 2.1% excluding acquisitions.
Gross profit for the first 39 weeks was $5.7 billion, an increase of 4.1%, compared to the prior year. Operating expenses in the first 39 weeks increased $220 million, or 5.4%, compared to operating expenses in the prior year period. This was due mainly to a $127 million increase in payroll expense, a $52 million increase in gross business transformation expenses and a $34 million increase in fuel expense. Adjusted operating expenses increased 4.5%.
 
Operating income was $1.4 billion in the first 39 weeks, increasing $4 million, or 0.3% compared to operating income in the prior year. Adjusted operating income increased 3.2%.
Net earnings for the first 39 weeks were $812 million, a decrease of $3 million, or 0.4%, compared to net earnings in the prior year period. Diluted EPS in the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2012 was $1.38 compared to last year's diluted EPS of $1.39. Adjusted EPS for the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2012 was $1.50, an increase of 4.2% compared to adjusted EPS of $1.44 in the prior year period.
Cash Flow and Capital Spending
Cash flow from operations was $908 million for the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2012 compared to $666 million in the prior year period. Capital expenditures totaled $199 million for the third quarter, and $633 million in the first 39 weeks of the fiscal year. This includes spending related to the company's business transformation project of $39 million for the third quarter and $118 million for the first 39 weeks of fiscal 2012. The primary areas for investment included facility replacements and expansions, replacements to Sysco's fleet, and technology.
Conference Call & Webcast
Sysco's third quarter fiscal 2012 earnings conference call will be held on Monday, May 7, 2012 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern.
For purposes of public disclosure, Sysco plans to use the investor relations portion of its website as the primary channel for publishing key information to its investors, some of which may contain material and previously non-public information. As a result, a live webcast of the call, a copy of this press release and a slide presentation, will be available online at www.sysco.com in the Investors section.
About Sysco
Sysco is the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other customers who prepare meals away from home. Its family of products also includes equipment and supplies for the foodservice and hospitality industries. The company operates 177 distribution facilities serving approximately 400,000 customers. For the fiscal year 2011 that ended July 2, 2011 the company generated record sales of more than $39 billion. For more information about Sysco visit the company's Internet home page at and for investor relations news follow us at .
www.sysco.com
www.twitter.com/SyscoStock
Business Risks
General risks associated with our business include the risk of interruption of supplies due to lack of long-term contracts, severe weather, work stoppages or otherwise, inflation risks, the impact of fuel prices, and labor issues. Risks and uncertainties also include risks impacting the economy generally, including the risk that the current economic downturn will continue, or that consumer confidence in the economy may not increase and decreases in consumer spending, particularly on food prepared outside the home, may not reverse. Also, there are risks related to our Business Transformation Project, including that the expected costs of our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2012 may be greater or less than
 
currently expected because we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including the incurrence of expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated; the risk that our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process; and the risk of adverse effects if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or result in the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate. In fiscal 2011, we took additional time to test the underlying ERP system and are taking additional time in fiscal 2012 to improve the underlying systems prior to larger scale development, and these actions have caused a delay in the project; until we reach the point where the underlying system functions as intended, our development timeline is uncertain. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including risks related to the implementation of our Business Transformation Project and our regional distribution centers, the timing and successful completions of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending. Fuel expense may vary from projections based on fluctuations in fuel costs, which are impacted by general economic conditions beyond our control. In the past, increased fuel prices have significantly increased our costs and reduced consumers' demand for meals served away from home. For a discussion of additional factors impacting Sysco's business, see the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended July 2, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands, Except for Share Data)
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
COMPARATIVE SEGMENT DATA (Unaudited)
(In Thousands)
 
Comparative Supplemental Statistical Information Related to Sales (Unaudited)
Comparative Sysco Brand Sales and Marketing Associate-Served Sales data are summarized below.
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
Non-GAAP Reconciliation (Unaudited)
Impact of Business Transformation Expenses, Multiemployer Pension Plan Expenses, COLI and Tax Benefits
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
Sysco's results of operations are impacted by costs from our multi-year Business Transformation Project, significant charges from the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plan and recognized tax benefits. Additionally, near the end of fiscal 2011, we reallocated all of our investments in our COLI policies into low-risk, fixed-income securities and therefore we do not expect significant volatility in operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share in future periods related to these policies. We experienced significant gains in these policies during fiscal 2011. Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove the impact of the Business Transformation Project expenses, multiemployer pension plan charges, COLI gains and tax benefits provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company's underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over year basis.
The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. These financial measures should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company's results of operations for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. As a result, in the tables that follow, each period presented is adjusted to remove expenses related to the Business Transformation Project, significant charges incurred from the withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan, gains recorded on the adjustments to the carrying value of COLI policies and to remove the impact of tax benefits in fiscal 2011.
 
 
 
 
Sysco Corporation and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
Non-GAAP Reconciliation (Unaudited)
Impact of Business Transformation Expenses, Multiemployer Pension Plan Expenses, COLI and Tax Benefitscontinued
(In Thousands, Except for Share and Per Share Data)
 
 
 


