Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the "Forward Looking Statements," our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes that follow and the "Consolidated Five Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" and the "Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Certain key terms and abbreviations are defined in the Glossary of Selected Terminology. Overview We are engaged in providing financial planning, products and services that are designed to be utilized as solutions for our clients cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection and estate and wealth transfer needs. As of December 31, 2008, we had a network of more than 12,400 financial advisors and registered representatives ("affiliated financial advisors"). In addition to serving clients through our affiliated financial advisors, our asset management, annuity, and auto and home protection products are distributed through third party advisors and affinity relationships. We deliver solutions to our clients through an approach focused on building long term personal relationships between our advisors and clients. We offer financial planning and advice that are responsive to our clients evolving needs and helps them achieve their identified financial goals by recommending actions and a range of product "solutions" consisting of investment, annuities, insurance, banking and other financial products that help them attain over time a return or form of protection while accepting what they determine to be an appropriate range and level of risk. The financial product solutions we offer through our affiliated advisors include both our own products and services and products of other companies. Our financial planning and advisory process is designed to provide comprehensive advice, when appropriate, to address our clients cash and liquidity, asset accumulation, income, protection, and estate and wealth transfer needs. We believe that our focus on personal relationships, together with our strengths in financial planning and product development, allows us to better address our clients financial needs, including the financial needs of our primary target market segment, the mass affluent and affluent, which we define as households with investable assets of more than $100,000. This focus also puts us in a strong position to capitalize on significant demographic and market trends, which we believe will continue to drive increased demand for our financial planning and other financial services. Deep client advisor relationships are central to the ability of our business model to succeed through market cycles, including the extreme market conditions that persisted through 2008. We have four main operating segments: Advice & Wealth Management, Asset Management, Annuities and Protection, as well as our Corporate & Other segment. Our four main operating segments are aligned with the financial solutions we offer to address our clients needs. The products and services we provide retail clients and, to a lesser extent, institutional clients, are the primary source of our revenues and net income. Revenues and net income are significantly impacted by investment performance and the total value and composition of assets we manage and administer for our retail and institutional clients as well as the distribution fees we receive from other companies. These factors, in turn, are largely determined by overall investment market performance and the depth and breadth of our individual client relationships. Equity market, credit market and interest rate fluctuations can have a significant impact on our results of operations, primarily due to the effects they have on the asset management and other asset based fees we earn, the "spread" income generated on our annuities, banking and deposit products and universal life ("UL") insurance products, the value of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") and deferred sales inducement costs ("DSIC") assets associated with variable annuity and variable UL products, the values of liabilities for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities and the values of derivatives held to hedge these benefits. For additional information regarding our sensitivity to equity risk and interest rate risk, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." It is managements priority to increase shareholder value over a multi year horizon by achieving our on average, over time financial targets. Our financial targets are: Net revenue growth of 6% to 8%, Earnings per diluted share growth of 12% to 15%, and Return on equity of 12% to 15%. Our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 were $7.0 billion, a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 19%, from the prior year period. This revenue decline primarily reflects the unprecedented impacts of the credit market events that occurred during the last few weeks of September and the fourth quarter of 2008. The majority of the impacts from the credit market events have been reflected in net investment income, which decreased $1.2 billion, or 59%, from the prior year period. The credit market events and weak equity markets also negatively impacted management and financial advice fees and distribution fees. 41 Table of Contents Our consolidated net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $38 million, a decline of $852 million from our consolidated net income of $814 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $0.17, compared to earnings per diluted share of $3.39 for the prior year period. We continue to establish Ameriprise Financial as a financial services leader as we focus on meeting the financial needs of the mass affluent and affluent, as evidenced by our continued leadership in financial planning and our strong corporate foundation. Our franchisee advisor and client retention remain strong at 92% and 94%, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. Branded financial plan net cash sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased 4% compared to the year ago period. Our owned, managed and administered ("OMA") assets declined to $372.1 billion at December 31, 2008, a net decrease of 22% from December 31, 2007, reflecting the 38% decline in the S&P 500 Index from the prior year period, partially offset by the addition of $36.9 billion in assets from the completion of our acquisitions during the fourth quarter of 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed the all cash acquisitions of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc., subsequently renamed Ameriprise Advisor Services, Inc. ("AASI"), J. & W. Seligman & Co., Incorporated ("Seligman") and Brecek & Young Advisors, Inc. to expand our retail distribution and asset management businesses. The cost of the acquisitions was $787 million, which included the purchase price and transaction costs. We recorded the assets and liabilities acquired at fair value and allocated the remaining costs to goodwill and intangible assets. Integration charges of $19 million were included in general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2008. Goodwill Impairment Testing In addition to our annual impairment evaluation for goodwill as of July 1, we evaluated goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of 2008 due to the unprecedented credit and equity market events. We concluded our goodwill was not impaired. Share Repurchase Program During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we purchased 12.7 million shares and 15.9 million shares, respectively, for an aggregate cost of $614 million and $948 million, respectively. In April 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the expenditure of up to $1.5 billion for the repurchase of our common stock through April 2010. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.3 billion remaining under this share repurchase authorization. In light of the current market environment, we have temporarily suspended our stock repurchase program. We may resume activity under our stock repurchase program and begin repurchasing shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time without notice. We reserve the right to suspend any such repurchases and to resume later repurchasing at any time, and expressly disclaim any obligation to maintain or lift any such suspension. Separation from American Express On February 1, 2005, the American Express Board of Directors announced its intention to pursue the disposition of 100% of its shareholdings in our company (the "Separation") through a tax free distribution to American Express shareholders. Effective as of the close of business on September 30, 2005, American Express completed the Separation of our company and the distribution of our common shares to American Express shareholders (the "Distribution"). Prior to the Distribution, we had been a wholly owned subsidiary of American Express. Our separation from American Express resulted in specifically identifiable impacts to our 2007 and 2006 consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We incurred a total of $890 million of non recurring separation costs as part of our separation from American Express. These costs were primarily associated with establishing the Ameriprise Financial brand, separating and reestablishing our technology platforms and advisor and employee retention programs. Our separation from American Express was completed in 2007. Critical Accounting Policies The accounting and reporting policies that we use affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of our accounting and reporting policies are critical to an understanding of our results of operations and financial condition and, in some cases, the application of these policies can be significantly affected by the estimates, judgments and assumptions made by management during the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The accounting and reporting policies we have identified as fundamental to a full understanding of our results of operations and financial condition are described below. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about our accounting policies. Valuation of Investments The most significant component of our investments is our Available for Sale securities, which we generally carry at fair value within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of our Available for Sale securities at December 31, 2008 was primarily obtained from third party pricing sources. We record unrealized securities gains (losses) in accumulated other 42 Table of Contents comprehensive income (loss), net of income tax provision (benefit) and net of adjustments in other asset and liability balances, such as DAC, to reflect the expected impact on their carrying values had the unrealized securities gains (losses) been realized as of the respective balance sheet dates. At December 31, 2008, we had net unrealized pretax losses on Available for Sale securities of $1.8 billion. We recognize gains and losses in results of operations upon disposition of the securities. We also recognize losses in results of operations when management determines that a decline in value is other than temporary. A write down for impairment can be recognized for both credit related events and for change in fair value due to changes in interest rates. Once a security is written down to fair value through net income, any subsequent recovery in value cannot be recognized in net income until the principal is returned. The determination of other than temporary impairment requires the exercise of judgment regarding the amount and timing of recovery. Factors we consider in determining whether declines in the fair value of fixed maturity securities are other than temporary include: 1) the extent to which the market value is below amortized cost; 2) our ability and intent to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time for it to recover to an amount at least equal to its carrying value; 3) the duration of time in which there has been a significant decline in value; 4) fundamental analysis of the liquidity, business prospects and overall financial condition of the issuer; and 5) market events that could impact credit ratings, economic and business climate, litigation and government actions, and similar external business factors. For structured investments (e.g., mortgage backed securities), the Company also considers factors such as overall deal structure and our position within the structure, quality of underlying collateral, delinquencies and defaults, loss severities, recoveries, prepayments, cumulative loss projections and discounted cash flows in assessing potential other than temporary impairment of these investments. Based upon these factors, securities that have indicators of potential other than temporary impairment are subject to detailed review by management. In response to the market dislocation in the fourth quarter of 2008 and expectations of continued dislocation in 2009, management increased the discount rate, expected loss and severity rates used to value non agency residential mortgage backed securities and increased the expected default rates for high yield corporate credits. Securities for which declines are considered temporary continue to be carefully monitored by management. As of December 31, 2008, we had $2.1 billion in gross unrealized losses that related to $14.2 billion of Available for Sale securities, of which $5.9 billion have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. These investment securities had an overall ratio of 87% of fair value to amortized cost at December 31, 2008. As part of our ongoing monitoring process, management determined that a majority of the gross unrealized losses on these securities were attributable to changes in interest rates and credit spreads across asset classes. Additionally, because we have the ability as well as the intent to hold these securities for a time sufficient to recover our amortized cost, we concluded that none of these securities were other than temporarily impaired at December 31, 2008. Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs For our annuity and life, disability income and long term care insurance products, our DAC and DSIC balances at any reporting date are supported by projections that show management expects there to be adequate premiums or estimated gross profits after that date to amortize the remaining DAC and DSIC balances. These projections are inherently uncertain because they require management to make assumptions about financial markets, anticipated mortality and morbidity levels and policyholder behavior over periods extending well into the future. Projection periods used for our annuity products are typically 10 to 25 years, while projection periods for our life, disability income and long term care insurance products are often 50 years or longer. Management regularly monitors financial market conditions and actual policyholder behavior experience and compares them to its assumptions. For annuity and universal life insurance products, the assumptions made in projecting future results and calculating the DAC balance and DAC amortization expense are managements best estimates. Management is required to update these assumptions whenever it appears that, based on actual experience or other evidence, earlier estimates should be revised. When assumptions are changed, the percentage of estimated gross profits used to amortize DAC might also change. A change in the required amortization percentage is applied retrospectively; an increase in amortization percentage will result in a decrease in the DAC balance and an increase in DAC amortization expense, while a decrease in amortization percentage will result in an increase in the DAC balance and a decrease in DAC amortization expense. The impact on results of operations of changing assumptions can be either positive or negative in any particular period and is reflected in the period in which such changes are made. For products with associated DSIC, the same policy applies in calculating the DSIC balance and periodic DSIC amortization. For other life, disability income and long term care insurance products, the assumptions made in calculating our DAC balance and DAC amortization expense are consistent with those used in determining the liabilities and, therefore, are intended to provide for adverse deviations in experience and are revised only if management concludes experience will be so adverse that DAC are not recoverable. If management concludes that DAC are not recoverable, DAC are reduced to the amount that is recoverable based on best estimate assumptions and there is a corresponding expense recorded in our consolidated results of operations. For annuity and life, disability income and long term care insurance products, key assumptions underlying these long term projections include interest rates (both earning rates on invested assets and rates credited to contractholder and policyholder 43 Table of Contents accounts), equity market performance, mortality and morbidity rates and the rates at which policyholders are expected to surrender their contracts, make withdrawals from their contracts and make additional deposits to their contracts. Assumptions about earned and credited interest rates are the primary factors used to project interest margins, while assumptions about equity and bond market performance are the primary factors used to project client asset value growth rates, and assumptions about surrenders, withdrawals and deposits comprise projected persistency rates. Management must also make assumptions to project maintenance expenses associated with servicing our annuity and insurance businesses during the DAC amortization period. The client asset value growth rates are the rates at which variable annuity and variable universal life insurance contract values invested in separate accounts are assumed to appreciate in the future. The rates used vary by equity and fixed income investments. Management reviews and, where appropriate, adjusts its assumptions with respect to client asset value growth rates on a regular basis. We typically use a mean reversion process as a guideline in setting near term equity asset growth rates based on a long term view of financial market performance as well as recent actual performance. The suggested near term growth rate is reviewed to ensure consistency with managements assessment of anticipated equity market performance. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we decided to constrain near term equity growth rates below the level suggested by mean reversion. This constraint is based on our analysis of historical equity returns following downturns in the market. Our long term client asset value growth rates are based on assumed gross annual returns of 9% for equities and 6.5% for fixed income securities. If we increased or decreased our assumptions related to these growth rates by 100 basis points, the impact on the DAC and DSIC balances would be an increase or decrease of approximately $30 million. We monitor other principal DAC and DSIC amortization assumptions, such as persistency, mortality, morbidity, interest margin and maintenance expense levels each quarter and, when assessed independently, each could impact our DAC and DSIC balances. The analysis of DAC and DSIC balances and the corresponding amortization is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and assumptions described previously. Unless management identifies a significant deviation over the course of the quarterly monitoring, management reviews and updates these DAC and DSIC amortization assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results. We adopted American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement of Position ("SOP") 05 1, "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts" ("SOP 05 1") on January 1, 2007. See Note 2 and Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the effect of our adoption of SOP 05 1 and our accounting policies for the amortization and capitalization of DAC. In periods prior to 2007, our policy had been to treat certain internal replacement transactions as continuations and to continue amortization of DAC associated with the existing contract against revenues from the new contract. For details regarding the balances of and changes in DAC for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 see Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits and Policy Claims and Other Policyholders Funds Fixed Annuities and Variable Annuity Guarantees Future policy benefits and policy claims and other policyholders funds related to fixed annuities and variable annuity guarantees include liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable deferred annuities, guaranteed benefits associated with variable annuities, equity indexed annuities and fixed annuities in a payout status. Liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable deferred annuities are equal to accumulation values, which are the cumulative gross deposits and credited interest less withdrawals and various charges. The majority of the variable annuity contracts offered by us contain guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") provisions. When market values of the customers accounts decline, the death benefit payable on a contract with a GMDB may exceed the contract accumulation value. The Company also offers variable annuities with death benefit provisions that gross up the amount payable by a certain percentage of contract earnings which are referred to as gain gross up benefits. In addition, the Company offers contracts with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") and guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit ("GMAB") provisions and, until May 2007, the Company offered contracts containing guaranteed minimum income benefit ("GMIB") provisions. As a result of the recent market decline, the amount by which guarantees exceed the accumulation value has increased significantly. In determining the liabilities for variable annuity death benefits, GMIB and the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB, we project these benefits and contract assessments using actuarial models to simulate various equity market scenarios. Significant assumptions made in projecting future benefits and assessments relate to customer asset value growth rates, mortality, persistency and investment margins and are consistent with those used for DAC asset valuation for the same contracts. As with DAC, management will review, and where appropriate, adjust its assumptions each quarter. Unless 44 Table of Contents management identifies a material deviation over the course of quarterly monitoring, management will review and update these assumptions annually in the third quarter of each year. In response to the market dislocation in the fourth quarter of 2008 and expectations of continued dislocation in 2009, management lowered future variable annuity and variable universal life profit expectations based on continued depreciation in contract values and historical equity market return patterns. The variable annuity death benefit liability is determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits in excess of the projected contract accumulation value and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments (e.g., mortality and expense fees, contractual administrative charges and similar fees). If elected by the contract owner and after a stipulated waiting period from contract issuance, a GMIB guarantees a minimum lifetime annuity based on a specified rate of contract accumulation value growth and predetermined annuity purchase rates. The GMIB liability is determined each period by estimating the expected value of annuitization benefits in excess of the projected contract accumulation value at the date of annuitization and recognizing the excess over the estimated meaningful life based on expected assessments. The embedded derivatives related to GMAB and the non life contingent benefits associated with GMWB provisions are recorded at fair value. See Note 18 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the fair value measurement of embedded derivatives. The liability for the life contingent benefits associated with GMWB provisions is determined in the same way as the liability for variable annuity death benefits. The changes in both the fair values of the GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the liability for life contingent benefits are reflected in benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. Liabilities for equity indexed annuities are equal to the accumulation of host contract values covering guaranteed benefits and the market value of embedded equity options. Liabilities for fixed annuities in a benefit or payout status are based on future estimated payments using established industry mortality tables and interest rates, ranging from 4.6% to 9.5% at December 31, 2008, depending on year of issue, with an average rate of approximately 5.8%. Life, Disability Income and Long Term Care Insurance Future policy benefits and policy claims and other policyholders funds related to life, disability income and long term care insurance include liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable universal life policies, liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported claims, estimates of benefits payable on claims incurred but not yet reported and estimates of benefits that will become payable on term life, whole life, disability income and long term care policies as claims are incurred in the future. Liabilities for fixed account values on fixed and variable universal life insurance are equal to accumulation values. Accumulation values are the cumulative gross deposits and credited interest less various contractual expense and mortality charges and less amounts withdrawn by policyholders. Liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported life insurance claims are equal to the death benefits payable under the policies. Liabilities for unpaid amounts on reported disability income and long term care claims include any periodic or other benefit amounts due and accrued, along with estimates of the present value of obligations for continuing benefit payments. These amounts are calculated based on claim continuance tables which estimate the likelihood an individual will continue to be eligible for benefits. Present values are calculated at interest rates established when claims are incurred. Anticipated claim continuance rates are based on established industry tables, adjusted as appropriate for the Companys experience. Interest rates used with disability income claims ranged from 3.0% to 8.0% at December 31, 2008, with an average rate of 4.8%. Interest rates used with long term care claims ranged from 4.0% to 7.0% at December 31, 2008, with an average rate of 4.1%. Liabilities for estimated benefits payable on claims that have been incurred but not yet reported are based on periodic analysis of the actual time lag between when a claim occurs and when it is reported. Liabilities for estimates of benefits that will become payable on future claims on term life, whole life, disability income and long term care policies are based on the net level premium method, using anticipated premium payments, mortality and morbidity rates, policy persistency and interest rates earned on assets supporting the liability. Anticipated mortality and morbidity rates are based on established industry mortality and morbidity tables, with modifications based on the Companys experience. Anticipated premium payments and persistency rates vary by policy form, issue age, policy duration and certain other pricing factors. Anticipated interest rates for term and whole life ranged from 4.0% to 10.0% at December 31, 2008, depending on policy form, issue year and policy duration. Anticipated interest rates for disability income vary by plan and were 7.5% and 6.0% at policy issue grading to 5.0% over five years and 4.5% over 20 years, respectively. Anticipated discount rates for long term care vary by plan and were 5.8% at December 31, 2008 and range from 5.9% to 6.3% over 40 years. Where applicable, benefit amounts expected to be recoverable from reinsurance companies who share in the risk are separately recorded as reinsurance recoverable within receivables. 45 Table of Contents Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to various market risks. All derivatives are recorded at fair value. The fair value of our derivative instruments is determined using either market quotes or valuation models that are based upon the net present value of estimated future cash flows and incorporate current market observable inputs to the extent available. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on its intended use and the resulting hedge designation, if any. We primarily use derivatives as economic hedges that are not designated as accounting hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We occasionally designate derivatives as (1) hedges of changes in the fair value of assets, liabilities, or firm commitments ("fair value hedges"), (2) hedges of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ("cash flow hedges"), or (3) hedges of foreign currency exposures of net investments in foreign operations ("net investment hedges in foreign operations"). For derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in current period earnings. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging variable annuity living benefits, equity indexed annuities and stock market certificates are included within benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, interest credited to fixed accounts and banking and deposit interest expense, respectively. The changes in fair value of all other derivatives are a component of net investment income. Our derivatives primarily provide economic hedges to equity market and interest rate exposures. Examples include structured derivatives, options, futures, equity and interest rate swaps and swaptions that economically hedge the equity and interest rate exposure of derivatives embedded in certain annuity and certificate liabilities, as well as exposure to price risk arising from proprietary mutual fund seed money investments. For derivative instruments that qualify as fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivatives, as well as of the corresponding hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments, are recognized in current earnings. If a fair value hedge designation is removed or the hedge is terminated prior to maturity, previous adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item are recognized into earnings over the remaining life of the hedged item. For derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portions of the gain or loss on the derivative instruments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings when the hedged item or transaction impacts earnings. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported currently in earnings. If a hedge designation is removed or a hedge is terminated prior to maturity, the amount previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) may be recognized into earnings over the period that the hedged item impacts earnings. For any hedge relationships that are discontinued because the forecasted transaction is not expected to occur according to the original strategy, any related amounts previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are recognized in earnings immediately. For derivative instruments that qualify as net investment hedges in foreign operations, the effective portions of the change in fair value of the derivatives are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as part of the foreign currency translation adjustment. Any ineffective portions of net investment hedges in foreign operations are recognized in earnings during the period of change. For further details on the types of derivatives we use and how we account for them, see Note 2 and Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Tax Accounting Income taxes, as reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements, represent the net amount of income taxes that we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions in connection with our operations. We provide for income taxes based on amounts that we believe we will ultimately owe taking into account the recognition and measurement for uncertain tax positions. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates and judgments regarding the tax treatment of certain items. In the event that the ultimate tax treatment of items differs from our estimates, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the provision for income taxes, our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect certain amounts related to deferred tax assets and liabilities, which result from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities measured for financial statement purposes versus the assets and liabilities measured for tax return purposes. Among our deferred tax assets is a significant deferred tax asset relating to capital losses that have been recognized for financial statement purposes but not yet for tax return purposes. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, capital losses generally must be used against capital gain income within five years of the year in which the capital losses are recognized for tax purposes. Our life insurance subsidiaries will not be able to file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with the other members of our affiliated group until 2010, which will result in net operating and capital losses, credits and other tax attributes generated by one group not being available to offset income earned or taxes owed by the other group during the period of non consolidation. This lack of consolidation could affect our ability to fully realize certain of our deferred tax assets, including the capital losses. 46 Table of Contents We are required to establish a valuation allowance for any portion of our deferred tax assets that management believes will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining if a valuation allowance should be established, and the amount of such allowance if required. Factors used in making this determination include estimates relating to the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains. Consideration is given to, among other things in making this determination, a) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, b) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, c) taxable income in prior carryback years, and d) tax planning strategies. It is likely that management will need to identify and implement appropriate planning strategies to ensure our ability to realize our deferred tax asset and avoid the establishment of a valuation allowance with respect to such assets. In the opinion of management, it is currently more likely than not that we will realize the benefit of our deferred tax assets, including our capital loss deferred tax asset; therefore, no such valuation allowance has been established. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information regarding recent accounting pronouncements and their expected impact on our future consolidated results of operations or financial condition, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Sources of Revenues and Expenses Management and Financial Advice Fees Management and financial advice fees relate primarily to fees earned from managing mutual funds, separate account and wrap account assets, institutional investments including structured investments, as well as fees earned from providing financial advice and administrative services (including transfer agent, administration and custodial fees earned from providing services to retail mutual funds). Management and financial advice fees also include mortality and expense risk fees earned on separate account assets. Our management and risk fees are generally computed as a contractual rate applied to the underlying asset values and are generally accrued daily and collected monthly. Many of our mutual funds have a performance incentive adjustment ("PIA"). The PIA increases or decreases the level of management fees received based on the specific funds relative performance as measured against a designated external index. We recognize PIA fee revenue on a 12 month rolling performance basis. Employee benefit plan and institutional investment management and administration services fees are negotiated and are also generally based on underlying asset values. We may receive performance based incentive fees from structured investments and hedge funds that we manage, which are recognized as revenue at the end of the performance period. Fees from financial planning and advice services are recognized when the financial plan is delivered. Distribution Fees Distribution fees primarily include point of sale fees (such as mutual fund front end sales loads) and asset based fees (such as 12b 1 distribution and shareholder service fees) that are generally based on a contractual percentage of assets and recognized when earned. Distribution fees also include amounts received under marketing support arrangements for sales of mutual funds and other companies products, such as through our wrap accounts, as well as surrender charges on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities. Net Investment Income Net investment income primarily includes interest income on fixed maturity securities classified as Available for Sale, commercial mortgage loans, policy loans, consumer loans, other investments and cash and cash equivalents; the changes in fair value of trading securities, including seed money, and certain derivatives; the pro rata share of net income or loss on equity method investments; and realized gains and losses on the sale of securities and charges for investments determined to be other than temporarily impaired. Interest income is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which makes an adjustment of the yield for security premiums and discounts on all performing fixed maturity securities classified as Available for Sale, excluding structured securities, and commercial mortgage loans so that the related security or loan recognizes a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance throughout its term. For beneficial interests in structured securities, the excess cash flows attributable to a beneficial interest over the initial investment are recognized as interest income over the life of the beneficial interest using the effective yield method. Realized gains and losses on securities, other than trading securities and equity method investments, are recognized using the specific identification method on a trade date basis. 47  Table of Contents Premiums Premiums include premiums on property casualty insurance, traditional life and health (disability income and long term care) insurance and immediate annuities with a life contingent feature. Premiums on auto and home insurance are net of reinsurance premiums and are recognized ratably over the coverage period. Premiums on traditional life and health insurance are net of reinsurance ceded and are recognized as revenue when due. Other Revenues Other revenues include certain charges assessed on fixed and variable universal life insurance and annuities, which consist of cost of insurance charges, net of reinsurance premiums for universal life insurance products, variable annuity guaranteed benefit rider charges and administration charges against contractholder accounts or balances. Premiums paid by fixed and variable universal life policyholders and annuity contractholders are considered deposits and are not included in revenue. Other revenues also include revenues related to certain limited partnerships that were consolidated beginning in 2006. Banking and Deposit Interest Expense Banking and deposit interest expense primarily includes interest expense related to banking deposits and investment certificates. Additionally, banking and deposit interest expense includes interest on non recourse debt of a structured entity while it was consolidated, as well as interest expense related to debt of certain consolidated limited partnerships. The changes in fair value of investment certificate embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging stock market certificates are included within banking and deposit interest expense. Distribution Expenses Distribution expenses primarily include compensation paid to the Companys financial advisors, registered representatives, third party distributors and wholesalers, net of amounts capitalized and amortized as part of DAC. The amounts capitalized and amortized are based on actual distribution costs. The majority of these costs, such as advisor and wholesaler compensation, vary directly with the level of sales. Distribution expenses also include marketing support and other distribution and administration related payments made to affiliated and unaffiliated distributors of products provided by the Companys affiliates. The majority of these expenses vary with the level of sales, or assets held, by these distributors or are fixed costs. Distribution expenses also include wholesaling costs. Interest Credited to Fixed Accounts Interest credited to fixed accounts represents amounts earned by contractholders and policyholders on fixed account values associated with fixed and variable universal life and annuity contracts. The mark to market adjustment on equity indexed annuity embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging equity indexed annuities are included within interest credited to fixed accounts. Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses consist of amounts paid and changes in liabilities held for anticipated future benefit payments under insurance policies and annuity contracts, along with costs to process and pay such amounts. Amounts are net of benefit payments recovered or expected to be recovered under reinsurance contracts. Benefits under variable annuity guarantees include the change in fair value of GMWB and GMAB embedded derivatives and the derivatives hedging these benefits. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses also include amortization of DSIC. Amortization of DAC Direct sales commissions and other costs deferred as DAC are amortized over time. For annuity and universal life contracts, DAC are amortized based on projections of estimated gross profits over amortization periods equal to the approximate life of the business. For other insurance products, DAC are generally amortized as a percentage of premiums over amortization periods equal to the premium paying period. For certain mutual fund products, DAC are generally amortized over fixed periods on a straight line basis adjusted for redemptions. See Deferred Acquisition Costs and Deferred Sales Inducement Costs under Critical Accounting Policies for further information on DAC. Interest and Debt Expense Interest and debt expense primarily includes interest on corporate debt, the impact of interest rate hedging activities and amortization of debt issuance costs. 48 Table of Contents Separation Costs Separation costs include expenses related to our separation from American Express. These costs were primarily associated with establishing the Ameriprise Financial brand, separating and reestablishing our technology platforms and advisor and employee retention programs. Our separation from American Express was completed in 2007. General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense includes compensation, share based awards and other benefits for employees (other than employees directly related to distribution, including financial advisors), professional and consultant fees, information technology, facilities and equipment, advertising and promotion, legal and regulatory, minority interest and corporate related expenses. Minority interest is related to certain consolidated limited partnerships, which primarily consist of the portion of net income (loss) of these partnerships not owned by us. Our Segments Our five segments are Advice & Wealth Management, Asset Management, Annuities, Protection and Corporate & Other. See Note 26 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our segments. Owned, Managed and Administered Assets Owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we do not provide investment management services and do not recognize management fees, such as investments in non proprietary funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries, as well as restricted and segregated cash and receivables. Managed assets include managed external client assets and managed owned assets. Managed external client assets include client assets for which we provide investment management services, such as the assets of the RiverSource family of mutual funds and Seligman family of mutual funds, assets of institutional clients and client assets held in wrap accounts. Managed external client assets also include assets managed by sub advisors selected by us. Managed external client assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Managed owned assets include certain assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets for which we provide investment management services and recognize management fees in our Asset Management segment, such as the assets of the general account and RiverSource Variable Product funds held in the separate accounts of our life insurance subsidiaries. Administered assets include assets for which we provide administrative services such as client assets invested in other companies products that we offer outside of our wrap accounts. These assets include those held in clients brokerage accounts. We do not exercise management discretion over these assets and do not earn a management fee. These assets are not reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We earn management fees on our owned separate account assets based on the market value of assets held in the separate accounts. We record the income associated with our owned investments, including net realized gains and losses associated with these investments and other than temporary impairments on these investments, as net investment income. For managed assets, we receive management fees based on the value of these assets. We generally report these fees as management and financial advice fees. We may also receive distribution fees based on the value of these assets. We generally record fees received from administered assets as distribution fees. Fluctuations in our owned, managed and administered assets impact our revenues. Our owned, managed and administered assets are impacted by net flows of client assets, market movements and foreign exchange rates. Owned assets are also affected by changes in our capital structure. In 2008, RiverSource managed assets had $12.9 billion in net outflows compared to net outflows of $6.2 billion during 2007 and market depreciation of $28.8 billion in 2008 compared to market appreciation of $5.7 billion in 2007. These negative impacts to RiverSource managed assets were partially offset by a $12.8 billion increase in managed assets due to the acquisition of Seligman in the fourth quarter of 2008. Threadneedle managed assets had $15.8 billion in net outflows in 2008 compared to net outflows of $21.1 billion in 2007 and market depreciation of $19.8 billion in 2008 compared to market appreciation of $7.5 billion in 2007. The negative impact on Threadneedle managed assets due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates was $28.6 billion in 2008 compared to a positive impact of $2.0 billion in 2007. Our wrap accounts had net inflows of $3.7 billion in 2008 compared to net inflows of $11.7 billion in 2007 and market depreciation of $26.8 billion in 2008 and market appreciation of $5.8 billion in 2007. The net decline in wrap account assets was partially offset by a $2.1 billion increase due to the acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. In 2008, RiverSource variable annuities had net inflows of $2.7 billion, but variable annuity contract accumulation values decreased $13.9 billion, net of market driven declines in separate account asset values. These changes in variable annuities affected both RiverSource managed owned assets and owned assets. Our fixed annuities had total net outflows of $0.7 billion in 2008 compared to net outflows of $2.9 billion in the prior year, which impacted our RiverSource managed owned assets. Administered assets increased $4.5 billion compared to the prior year due to an increase of 49 Table of Contents $22.0 billion related to the acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2008, partially offset by market depreciation. The following table presents detail regarding our owned, managed and administered assets: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in billions, except percentages) Owned Assets $ 31.7 $ 39.6 (20 )% Managed Assets(1): RiverSource 127.9 156.3 (18 ) Threadneedle 74.2 134.4 (45 ) Wrap account assets 72.8 93.9 (22 ) Eliminations(2) (10.0 ) (15.4 ) (35 ) Total Managed Assets 264.9 369.2 (28 ) Administered Assets 75.5 71.0 6 Total Owned, Managed and Administered Assets $ 372.1 $ 479.8 (22 )% (1)Includes managed external client assets and managed owned assets. (2)Includes eliminations for RiverSource mutual fund assets included in wrap account assets and RiverSource assets sub advised by Threadneedle. Consolidated Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 The following table presents our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 2,899 $ 3,238 $ (339 ) (10 )% Distribution fees 1,565 1,762 (197 ) (11 ) Net investment income 828 2,018 (1,190 ) (59 ) Premiums 1,091 1,063 28 3 Other revenues 766 724 42 6 Total revenues 7,149 8,805 (1,656 ) (19 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 179 249 (70 ) (28 ) Total net revenues 6,970 8,556 (1,586 ) (19 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 1,948 2,057 (109 ) (5 ) Interest credited to fixed accounts 790 847 (57 ) (7 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,125 1,179 (54 ) (5 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 933 551 382 69 Interest and debt expense 109 112 (3 ) (3 ) Separation costs 236 (236 ) NM General and administrative expense 2,436 2,558 (122 ) (5 ) Total expenses 7,341 7,540 (199 ) (3 ) Pretax income (loss) (371 ) 1,016 (1,387 ) NM Income tax provision (benefit) (333 ) 202 (535 ) NM Net income (loss) $ (38 ) $ 814 $ (852 ) NM NM Not Meaningful. 50 Table of Contents In the second quarter of 2008, we reclassified the changes in fair value of certain derivatives from net investment income to various expense lines where the changes in fair value of the related embedded derivatives reside. The changes in fair value of derivatives hedging variable annuity living benefits, equity indexed annuities and stock market certificates were reclassified to benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, interest credited to fixed accounts and banking and deposit interest expense, respectively. Prior period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Overall Consolidated net loss for 2008 was $38 million, down $852 million from consolidated net income of $814 million for 2007. The loss in 2008 was primarily attributable to negative economic, credit and equity market trends that accelerated in the third and fourth quarters of 2008. The S&P 500 Index ended 2008 at 903 compared to 1,468 at the end of 2007, a drop of 565 points, or 38%. Credit spreads widened in the fourth quarter of 2008 as reflected in the 114 basis point increase in the Barclays U.S. Corporate Investment Grade Index and the 642 basis point increase in the Barclays High Yield Index. Short term interest rates declined in the fourth quarter of 2008 as the Fed Funds rate was reduced to 0 25 basis points. Pretax net realized investment losses on Available for Sale securities were $757 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, which primarily related to other than temporary impairments of various financial services securities, high yield corporate credits and residential mortgage backed securities, compared to pretax net realized investment gains on Available for Sale securities of $44 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. In response to the accelerated market deterioration in the fourth quarter of 2008, management increased the discount rate, expected loss and severity rates used to value non agency residential mortgage backed securities and increased the expected default rates for high yield corporate credits, which resulted in $420 million in pretax net realized investment losses. Consolidated net loss for 2008 included $192 million in integration and restructuring charges and support costs related to the RiverSource 2a 7 money market funds and unaffiliated money market funds. Included in consolidated net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 were $236 million of pretax non recurring separation costs. Results for the year ended December 31, 2008 also included an increase in DAC and DSIC amortization due to the market dislocation in 2008, as well as an increase in GMDB and GMIB benefits due to lower equity markets. These negative impacts were partially offset by a benefit resulting from our annual review of valuation assumptions for products of RiverSource Life companies in the third quarter of 2008 and our conversion to a new industry standard valuation system that provides enhanced modeling capabilities. The annual review of valuation assumptions resulted in a decrease in expenses resulting primarily from updating mortality and expense assumptions for certain life insurance products and from updating fund mix and contractholder behavior assumptions for variable annuities with guaranteed benefits. The valuation system conversion also resulted in an increase in revenue primarily from improved modeling of the expected value of existing reinsurance agreements and a decrease in expense from modeling annuity amortization periods at the individual policy level. Our annual review of valuation assumptions in the third quarter of 2007 resulted in a net $30 million increase in expense from updating product persistency assumptions, partially offset by decreases in expense from updating other assumptions. The total pretax impacts on revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 attributable to the annual review of valuation assumptions for products of RiverSource Life companies, the valuation system conversion and the impact of markets on DAC and DSIC amortization, variable annuity living benefit riders, net of hedges and GMDB and GMIB benefits were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Premiums Other Revenues Distribution Expenses Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Annuities $ $ $ 1 $ 26 $ (330 ) $ (303 ) Protection 2 95 44 (145 ) (4 ) Total $ 2 $ 95 $ 1 $ 70 $ (475 ) $ (307 ) 51  Table of Contents The total pretax impacts on our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007 attributable to the review of valuation assumptions for products of RiverSource Life companies and the impact of markets on DAC and DSIC amortization and variable annuity living benefit riders, net of hedges were as follows: Segment Pretax Benefit (Charge) Premiums Other Revenues Distribution Expenses Benefits, Claims, Losses and Settlement Expenses Amortization of DAC Total (in millions) Annuities $ $ $ $ (38 ) $ 27 $ (11 ) Protection (2 ) (9 ) (20 ) (31 ) Total $ $ (2 ) $ $ (47 ) $ 7 $ (42 ) Net revenues Our decrease in net revenues is primarily attributable to the decline in equity markets and related credit market events. Management and financial advice fees decreased $339 million, or 10%, to $2.9 billion in 2008 compared to $3.2 billion in 2007. Total client assets as of December 31, 2008 were $241.4 billion compared to $293.9 billion as of December 31, 2007, a decrease of $52.5 billion, or 18%. Wrap account assets decreased $21.1 billion, or 22%, due to weak equity markets in 2008, partially offset by inflows and an increase in assets of $2.0 billion related to our acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2008. Market depreciation on wrap account assets was $26.8 billion during 2008 compared to market appreciation of $5.8 billion during 2007. Net inflows in wrap accounts decreased to $3.7 billion in 2008 from $11.7 billion in 2007. Total managed assets decreased $104.3 billion, or 28%, primarily due to market depreciation and net outflows in RiverSource and Threadneedle funds and a $28.6 billion decrease in Threadneedle managed assets in 2008 due to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by an increase in assets of $12.8 billion related to our acquisition of Seligman. Distribution fees decreased $197 million, or 11%, to $1.6 billion in 2008 compared to $1.8 billion in 2007 primarily due to the impact of market depreciation on asset based fees and decreased sales volume due to a shift in client behavior away from traditional investment activity. Net investment income decreased $1.2 billion, or 59%, to $828 million in 2008 compared to $2.0 billion in 2007. Included in net investment income for 2008 were $757 million of net realized investment losses on Available for Sale securities, primarily consisting of other than temporary impairments, compared to net realized investment gains on Available for Sale securities of $44 million in 2007. Also contributing to the decrease in net investment income was a loss of $88 million on trading securities in 2008 compared to a gain of $3 million in 2007 and a $224 million decrease in investment income earned on fixed maturity securities primarily from declining average balances in fixed annuities and increased holdings of cash and cash equivalents. Investment income on fixed maturities was $1.6 billion in 2008 compared to $1.8 billion in 2007. Premiums increased $28 million, or 3%, to $1.1 billion in 2008 primarily due to a 6% year over year increase in auto and home policy counts and a 9% increase in traditional life insurance in force. Traditional life insurance in force increased $6.6 billion to $77.4 billion in 2008 compared to $70.8 billion in 2007. Other revenues increased $42 million, or 6%, to $766 million in 2008 compared to $724 million in 2007 primarily due to a $95 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system for products of RiverSource Life companies in the third quarter of 2008. Also, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we extinguished $43 million of our junior subordinated notes ("junior notes") and recognized a gain of $19 million. Other revenues in 2008 included $36 million from the sale of certain operating assets. Other revenues in 2007 included $25 million of additional proceeds related to the sale of our defined contribution recordkeeping business in 2006 and $68 million from unwinding a variable interest entity. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $70 million to $179 million in 2008 compared to $249 million in 2007 due to lower crediting rates accrued on certificates. Expenses Total expenses decreased $199 million, or 3%, to $7.3 billion in 2008 compared to $7.5 billion in 2007. Included in 2007 total expenses were $236 million of separation costs. Excluding separation costs from 2007, total expenses increased $37 million, or 1%, compared to the prior year period. A $382 million increase in amortization of DAC was partially offset by decreases in all other expense lines. 52 Table of Contents Distribution expenses decreased $109 million, or 5%, to $1.9 billion in 2008 compared to $2.1 billion in 2007 primarily due to the impact of lower cash sales on advisor compensation as reflected by a decrease in net revenues per advisor from $315,000 in 2007 to $267,000 in 2008 and a $104.3 billion decrease in total managed assets. Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased $57 million, or 7%, to $790 million in 2008 compared to $847 million in 2007 primarily driven by declining fixed annuity balances. The balances had been decreasing steadily throughout 2008 until the fourth quarter when we experienced positive flows into fixed annuities. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased $54 million, or 5%, to $1.1 billion in 2008 compared to $1.2 billion in 2007. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2008 included a $90 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008 and a $92 million benefit related to the market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges. Partially offsetting these benefits was a $42 million expense related to the markets impact on DSIC, a $70 million expense related to the equity markets impact on variable annuity minimum death and income benefits and increases in life, long term care and auto and home insurance benefits. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2007 included $12 million of expense related to updating valuation assumptions, $39 million of expense related to the unfavorable market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges and an immaterial market impact on DSIC. Amortization of DAC increased $382 million, or 69%, to $933 million in 2008 compared to $551 million in 2007. Amortization of DAC in 2008 included a $292 million expense from the markets impact on DAC, an $82 million expense from updating valuation assumptions and conversion to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008 and a $101 million expense related to higher estimated gross profits to amortize as a result of the reserve decrease, net of hedges, for variable annuity guaranteed living benefits. The market impact on DAC included $220 million resulting from managements action in the fourth quarter of 2008 to lower future profit expectations based on continued depreciation in contract values and historical equity market return patterns. In the prior year, DAC amortization included expense of $16 million related to updating valuation assumptions and benefits of $6 million from the markets impact on DAC and $17 million related to the DAC effect of variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges. Separation costs in 2007 were primarily associated with separating and reestablishing our technology platforms. All separation costs were incurred as of December 31, 2007. General and administrative expense decreased $122 million, or 5%, to $2.4 billion in 2008 compared to $2.6 billion in 2007 as a result of expense management initiatives and lower compensation related expenses primarily from lower Threadneedle hedge fund performance fees. General and administrative expense in 2008 included a $77 million expense related to changes in fair value of Lehman Brothers securities that we purchased from various 2a 7 money market mutual funds managed by RiverSource Investments, a $36 million expense for the cost of guaranteeing specific client holdings in an unaffiliated money market mutual fund, a $19 million expense related to acquisition integration and $60 million in restructuring charges. General and administrative expense in 2007 included expenses related to professional and consultant fees representing increased spending on investment initiatives, increased hedge fund performance compensation and an increase in technology related costs. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate increased to 89.7% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to 19.9% for the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily due to a pretax loss in relation to a net tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to pretax income for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our effective tax rate for December 31, 2008 included $79 million in tax benefits related to changes in the status of current audits and closed audits, tax planning initiatives, and the finalization of prior year tax returns. Our effective tax rate for December 31, 2007 included a $16 million tax benefit related to the finalization of certain income tax audits and a $19 million tax benefit related to our plan to begin repatriating earnings of certain Threadneedle entities through dividends. On September 25, 2007, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2007 61 in which it announced that it intends to issue regulations with respect to certain computational aspects of the Dividends Received Deduction ("DRD") related to separate account assets held in connection with variable contracts of life insurance companies. Revenue Ruling 2007 61 suspended a revenue ruling issued in August 2007 that purported to change accepted industry and IRS interpretations of the statutes governing these computational questions. Any regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at which time insurance companies and other members of the public will have the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate timing and substance of any such regulations are unknown at this time, but they may result in the elimination of some or all of the separate account DRD tax benefit that the Company receives. Management believes that it is likely that any such regulations would apply prospectively only. 53 Table of Contents  Results of Operations by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 The following tables present summary financial information by segment and reconciliation to consolidated totals derived from Note 26 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 Percent Share of Total 2007 Percent Share of Total (in millions, except percentages) Total net revenues Advice & Wealth Management $ 3,121 45 % $ 3,813 45 % Asset Management 1,289 18 1,762 21 Annuities 1,618 23 2,206 26 Protection 1,997 29 1,985 23 Corporate & Other (1 ) 24 Eliminations (1,054 ) (15 ) (1,234 ) (15 ) Total net revenues $ 6,970 100 % $ 8,556 100 % Total expenses Advice & Wealth Management $ 3,270 44 % $ 3,528 47 % Asset Management 1,212 17 1,455 19 Annuities 1,905 26 1,783 23 Protection 1,645 22 1,500 20 Corporate & Other 363 5 508 7 Eliminations (1,054 ) (14 ) (1,234 ) (16 ) Total expenses $ 7,341 100 % $ 7,540 100 % Pretax income (loss) Advice & Wealth Management $ (149 ) 40 % $ 285 28 % Asset Management 77 (21 ) 307 30 Annuities (287 ) 77 423 42 Protection 352 (94 ) 485 48 Corporate & Other (364 ) 98 (484 ) (48 ) Pretax income (loss) $ (371 ) 100 % $ 1,016 100 % 54 Table of Contents Advice & Wealth Management Our Advice & Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients, through our financial advisors. Our affiliated advisors utilize a diversified selection of both proprietary and non proprietary products to help clients meet their financial needs. The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,339 $ 1,350 $ (11 ) (1 )% Distribution fees 1,912 2,218 (306 ) (14 ) Net investment income (32 ) 399 (431 ) NM Other revenues 80 76 4 5 Total revenues 3,299 4,043 (744 ) (18 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 178 230 (52 ) (23 ) Total net revenues 3,121 3,813 (692 ) (18 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 2,114 2,349 (235 ) (10 ) General and administrative expense 1,156 1,179 (23 ) (2 ) Total expenses 3,270 3,528 (258 ) (7 ) Pretax income (loss) $ (149 ) $ 285 $ (434 ) NM NM Not Meaningful. Our Advice & Wealth Management segment pretax loss was $149 million in 2008 compared to pretax income of $285 million in 2007. Net revenues Net revenues were $3.1 billion in 2008 compared to $3.8 billion in 2007, a decrease of $692 million, or 18%, primarily driven by decreases in net investment income from realized investment losses and lower distribution fees. Management and financial advice fees decreased $11 million, or 1%, to $1.3 billion in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a $21.1 billion decline in total wrap account assets as a result of the deterioration in the equity markets, as well as lower net inflows compared to the prior year period, partially offset by a $2.0 billion increase in wrap account assets related to our acquisition of H&R Block Financial Advisors, Inc. Net inflows in wrap accounts decreased to $3.7 billion in 2008 from net inflows of $11.7 billion in 2007. Distribution fees decreased $306 million, or 14%, from $2.2 billion in 2007 to $1.9 billion in 2008 primarily due to market depreciation and decreased sales volume due to a shift in client behavior away from traditional investment activity. Net investment income decreased $431 million from $399 million in 2007 to a loss of $32 million in 2008, primarily due to net realized investment losses of $333 million on Available for Sale securities in 2008, primarily from other than temporary impairments. Investment income from fixed maturity securities and other investments decreased $99 million primarily due to lower yields on our investment portfolio as we increased our liquidity position. Banking and deposit interest expense decreased $52 million, or 23%, to $178 million in 2008 compared to $230 million in 2007. This decrease is due to lower crediting rates accrued on certificates. Expenses Total expenses decreased $258 million, or 7%, from $3.5 billion in 2007 to $3.3 billion in 2008 primarily due to a $235 million decrease in distribution expenses resulting from the impact of lower asset levels and cash sales on advisor compensation as reflected by a decrease in net revenues per advisor from $315,000 in 2007 to $267,000 in 2008. General and administrative expense decreased $23 million, or 2%, from the prior year period primarily due to our expense reduction initiatives in 2008, partially offset by acquisition integration costs. 55  Table of Contents Asset Management Our Asset Management segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,077 $ 1,362 $ (285 ) (21 )% Distribution fees 247 322 (75 ) (23 ) Net investment income (13 ) 48 (61 ) NM Other revenues (15 ) 50 (65 ) NM Total revenues 1,296 1,782 (486 ) (27 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 7 20 (13 ) (65 ) Total net revenues 1,289 1,762 (473 ) (27 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 417 464 (47 ) (10 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 24 33 (9 ) (27 ) General and administrative expense 771 958 (187 ) (20 ) Total expenses 1,212 1,455 (243 ) (17 ) Pretax income $ 77 $ 307 $ (230 ) (75 )% NM Not Meaningful. Our Asset Management segment pretax income was $77 million in 2008, down $230 million, or 75%, from $307 million in 2007. Net revenues Net revenues decreased $473 million, or 27%, in 2008 to $1.3 billion compared to net revenues of $1.8 billion in 2007. Management and financial advice fees decreased $285 million, or 21%, to $1.1 billion compared to $1.4 billion in 2007 primarily due to a decrease in total managed assets excluding wrap account assets of $83.2 billion during 2008, negative market impacts and lower Threadneedle hedge fund performance fees. RiverSource managed assets were $127.9 billion in 2008 compared to $156.3 billion in 2007. The decrease in RiverSource managed assets of $28.4 billion was due to market depreciation of $28.8 billion and net outflows of $12.9 billion, partially offset by a $12.8 billion increase in managed assets due to the acquisition of Seligman in the fourth quarter of 2008. Threadneedle managed assets were $74.2 billion in 2008 compared to $134.4 billion in 2007. The decrease in Threadneedle managed assets of $60.2 billion was due to a decrease of $28.6 billion related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, net outflows of $15.8 billion and market depreciation of $19.8 billion. Distribution fees decreased $75 million, or 23%, to $247 million in 2008 compared to $322 million in 2007 primarily due to decreased mutual fund sales volume and lower 12b 1 fees driven by flows and negative market impacts. Net investment income decreased $61 million from $48 million in 2007 to a net investment loss of $13 million in 2008 primarily due to losses related to changes in fair value of seed money investments driven by the declining market, as well as the deconsolidation of a collateralized debt obligation ("CDO") in the fourth quarter of 2007, which is offset in banking and deposit interest expense. Other revenues decreased $65 million from $50 million in 2007 to a loss of $15 million in 2008 primarily due to decreases in revenue related to certain consolidated limited partnerships, which had a corresponding decrease in expense. Other revenues in 2008 included $36 million from the sale of certain operating assets. Other revenues in 2007 included $25 million of additional proceeds related to the sale of our defined contribution recordkeeping business in 2006, as well as an $8 million gain from the sale of certain Threadneedle limited partnerships. 56 Table of Contents Expenses Total expenses decreased $243 million, or 17%, primarily due to a $187 million decrease in general and administrative expense. The primary drivers of this decline were a decrease in expenses related to certain consolidated limited partnerships, which corresponds with the decline in other revenues discussed above and a decline resulting from expense management initiatives and lower incentive compensation accruals. Distribution expenses decreased $47 million related to decreased mutual fund sales volume. Annuities Our Annuities segment provides variable and fixed annuity products of RiverSource Life companies to our retail clients primarily through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and to the retail clients of unaffiliated advisors through third party distribution. The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 478 $ 510 $ (32 ) (6 )% Distribution fees 275 267 8 3 Net investment income 652 1,196 (544 ) (45 ) Premiums 85 95 (10 ) (11 ) Other revenues 128 138 (10 ) (7 ) Total revenues 1,618 2,206 (588 ) (27 ) Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 1,618 2,206 (588 ) (27 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 207 194 13 7 Interest credited to fixed accounts 646 706 (60 ) (8 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 269 329 (60 ) (18 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 576 318 258 81 General and administrative expense 207 236 (29 ) (12 ) Total expenses 1,905 1,783 122 7 Pretax income (loss) $ (287 ) $ 423 $ (710 ) NM NM Not Meaningful. Our Annuities segment pretax loss was $287 million in 2008, down $710 million from pretax income of $423 million in 2007. Net revenues Net revenues decreased $588 million to $1.6 billion in 2008, compared to $2.2 billion in 2007, primarily driven by a $544 million decrease in net investment income. Management and financial advice fees decreased $32 million to $478 million driven by lower net flows and market declines. Variable annuities had net inflows of $2.7 billion in 2008 compared to net inflows of $4.9 billion in 2007. Net investment income decreased $544 million, or 45%, to $652 million in 2008 compared to $1.2 billion in 2007 primarily due to net realized investment losses on Available for Sale securities of $350 million, which primarily consisted of other than temporary impairments, compared to net realized investment gains of $33 million in 2007. Also contributing to lower net investment income were lower yields on our investment portfolio as we increased our liquidity position. Investment income on fixed maturity securities decreased $159 million to $985 million compared to investment income of $1.1 billion in 2007. Premiums declined $10 million to $85 million in 2008 primarily due to lower sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies. Other revenues decreased $10 million to $128 million in 2008 primarily due to a gain of $49 million in 2007 related to the 57 Table of Contents deconsolidation of a CDO, partially offset by an increase in our guaranteed benefit rider fees on variable annuities driven by volume increases in 2008. Expenses Total expenses increased $122 million, or 7%, to $1.9 billion in 2008, primarily due to an increase in amortization of DAC partially offset by decreases in interest credited to fixed accounts, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses and general and administrative expense. Distribution expenses increased $13 million to $207 million in 2008 primarily due to capitalizing less deferrals due to a product mix shift, and therefore expensing more costs. Interest credited to fixed accounts decreased $60 million, or 8%, to $646 million in 2008 primarily driven by declining fixed annuity balances, which were $12.2 billion as of December 31, 2008 compared to $12.5 billion as of December 31, 2007. The balances had been decreasing steadily throughout 2008 until the fourth quarter when we experienced positive flows into fixed annuities. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses decreased $60 million, or 18%, to $269 million in 2008 compared to $329 million in 2007. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2008 included a $46 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008 and a benefit of $92 million related to the unfavorable market impact on variable annuity living benefits, net of hedges, partially offset by an expense of $42 million related to the markets impact on DSIC and a $70 million expense related to the equity markets impact on variable annuity minimum death and income benefits. Expenses related to changes in fair value of the variable annuity guaranteed living benefit riders, net of hedges were comprised of a $1.6 billion increase in hedge assets partially offset by a $1.5 billion increase in reserves. Prior year benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses included $36 million related to the unfavorable market impact on variable annuity guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges and $2 million from updating valuation assumptions and an immaterial market impact on DSIC. Amortization of DAC increased $258 million, or 81%, to $576 million in 2008 primarily due to the market and the effect on DAC amortization from hedged variable annuity products. In response to the accelerated market deterioration in the fourth quarter of 2008, management took action in the fourth quarter of 2008 to lower future variable annuity profit expectations based on continued depreciation in contract values and historical equity market return patterns. General and administrative expense decreased $29 million, or 12%, to $207 million in 2008 compared to $236 million in 2007 primarily due to expense control initiatives. 58 Table of Contents Protection Our Protection segment offers a variety of protection products to address the identified protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property casualty insurance. The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 56 $ 68 $ (12 ) (18 )% Distribution fees 106 102 4 4 Net investment income 252 361 (109 ) (30 ) Premiums 1,037 1,002 35 3 Other revenues 547 453 94 21 Total revenues 1,998 1,986 12 1 Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 Total net revenues 1,997 1,985 12 1 Expenses Distribution expenses 61 62 (1 ) (2 ) Interest credited to fixed accounts 144 141 3 2 Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 856 850 6 1 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 333 200 133 67 General and administrative expense 251 247 4 2 Total expenses 1,645 1,500 145 10 Pretax income $ 352 $ 485 $ (133 ) (27 )% Our Protection segment pretax income was $352 million for 2008, down $133 million, or 27%, from $485 million in 2007. Net revenues Net revenues increased $12 million, or 1%, from the prior year period. Management and financial advice fees decreased $12 million, or 18%, to $56 million primarily driven by lower equity markets. Net investment income decreased $109 million, or 30%, to $252 million in 2008 compared to $361 million in 2007 primarily due to net realized investment losses on Available for Sale securities of $92 million in 2008, primarily due to other than temporary impairments, compared to net realized investment gains of $7 million in 2007. Also contributing to lower net investment income were lower yields on our investment portfolio as we increased our liquidity position. Investment income on fixed maturity securities decreased $18 million to $307 million compared to investment income of $325 million in 2007. Premiums increased $35 million, or 3%, from the prior year period, primarily due to a 6% increase in Auto and Home policy counts and an increase of 9% in traditional life insurance in force. Traditional life insurance in force was $77.4 billion as of year end 2008, compared to $70.8 billion as of year end 2007. Other revenues increased $94 million, or 21%, to $547 million in 2008 primarily due to a $95 million benefit from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008. Expenses Total expenses increased $145 million, or 10%, to $1.6 billion for 2008 compared to $1.5 billion for 2007, primarily due to a $133 million increase in amortization of DAC. DAC amortization in 2008 included a $90 million expense from updating valuation assumptions and converting to a new valuation system in the third quarter of 2008, as well as the markets unfavorable impact on DAC. In response to the accelerated market deterioration in the fourth quarter of 2008, management took action to lower future variable universal life profit expectations based on continued depreciation in contract values and historical equity market return patterns. DAC amortization in 2007 included a $20 million expense from updating valuation assumptions and an immaterial market impact. 59 Table of Contents Corporate & Other The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ $ 1 $ (1 ) NM Net investment income (25 ) 22 (47 ) NM Other revenues 26 7 19 NM Total revenues 1 30 (29 ) (97 ) % Banking and deposit interest expense 2 6 (4 ) (67 ) Total net revenues (1 ) 24 (25 ) NM Expenses Distribution expenses 1 1 Interest and debt expense 109 112 (3 ) (3 ) Separation costs 236 (236 ) NM General and administrative expense 253 159 94 59 Total expenses 363 508 (145 ) (29 ) Pretax loss $ (364 ) $ (484 ) $ 120 25 % NM Not Meaningful. Our Corporate & Other segment pretax loss in 2008 was $364 million, an improvement of $120 million compared to a pretax loss of $484 million in 2007. The improvement was primarily due to a decrease in separation costs of $236 million, as the separation from American Express was completed in 2007. Other revenues increased $19 million primarily due to recognizing a gain from extinguishing $43 million of our junior notes in the fourth quarter of 2008. These positive impacts were offset by a $47 million decrease in net investment income and a $94 million increase in general and administrative expense. The decrease in net investment income was primarily due to lower investment income on fixed maturities and lower income on seed money investments and other investments. The increase in general and administrative expense was driven by a $77 million expense related to changes in fair value of Lehman Brothers securities that we purchased from various 2a 7 money market mutual funds managed by RiverSource Investments, expense of $36 million for the cost of guaranteeing specific client holdings in an unaffiliated money market mutual fund and $60 million in restructuring charges. Partially offsetting these increases in general and administrative expense were decreases related to our expense reduction initiatives and lower incentive compensation accruals. 60 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 The following table presents our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 3,238 $ 2,700 $ 538 20 % Distribution fees 1,762 1,569 193 12 Net investment income 2,018 2,225 (207 ) (9 ) Premiums 1,063 1,070 (7 ) (1 ) Other revenues 724 707 17 2 Total revenues 8,805 8,271 534 6 Banking and deposit interest expense 249 245 4 2 Total net revenues 8,556 8,026 530 7 Expenses Distribution expenses 2,057 1,728 329 19 Interest credited to fixed accounts 847 955 (108 ) (11 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 1,179 1,132 47 4 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 551 472 79 17 Interest and debt expense 112 101 11 11 Separation costs 236 361 (125 ) (35 ) General and administrative expense 2,558 2,480 78 3 Total expenses 7,540 7,229 311 4 Pretax income 1,016 797 219 27 Income tax provision 202 166 36 22 Net income $ 814 $ 631 $ 183 29 % In the second quarter of 2008, we reclassified the mark to market adjustment on certain derivatives from net investment income to various expense lines where the mark to market adjustment on the related embedded derivative resides. The mark to market adjustment on derivatives hedging variable annuity living benefits, equity indexed annuities and stock market certificates were reclassified to benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, interest credited to fixed accounts and banking and deposit interest expense, respectively. Prior period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Overall Consolidated net income for 2007 was $814 million, up $183 million from $631 million for 2006. This income growth reflected strong growth in fee based businesses driven by net inflows in wrap accounts and variable annuities, market appreciation and continued advisor productivity gains. Also contributing to our income growth was a decline of $125 million in our non recurring separation costs. These positives were partially offset by higher distribution expenses which reflect the higher levels of assets under management and overall business growth. Income in both 2007 and 2006 was impacted by non recurring separation costs of $236 million and $361 million, respectively ($154 million and $235 million, respectively, after tax). The impact of our annual third quarter detailed review of DAC and the related valuation assumptions ("DAC unlocking") was a net pretax expense of $30 million ($20 million after tax) in 2007, compared to a net benefit of $25 million ($16 million after tax) in 2006. Net revenues Our revenue growth in management and financial advice fees was primarily driven by the growth in our fee based businesses. Management and financial advice fees increased in 2007 to $3.2 billion, up $538 million, or 20%, from $2.7 billion in 2006. Wrap account assets grew 23% and variable annuity account assets increased 16% over the prior year driven by strong net inflows and market appreciation. Overall, managed assets increased 2% over the prior year period. 61 Table of Contents Distribution fees for 2007 were $1.8 billion, up $193 million, or 12%, from 2006 driven by strong advisor cash sales, up 3% from 2006, higher asset balances, an increase in the sale of direct investments, as clients had more products available to choose from and strong net inflows into wrap accounts. Distribution fees were also positively impacted by market appreciation. Net investment income for 2007 decreased $207 million from 2006, primarily driven by decreased volume in annuity fixed accounts and certificates, partially offset by net investment income related to Ameriprise Bank, FSB ("Ameriprise Bank") and a $22 million decrease in the allowance for loan losses on commercial mortgage loans. Included in net investment income are net realized investment gains on Available for Sale securities of $44 million and $51 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net realized investment gains in 2006 included a gain of $23 million related to recoveries on WorldCom securities. Premiums in 2007 decreased $7 million, or 1%, to $1.1 billion. This decrease was attributable to a decline in premiums related to immediate annuities with life contingencies, partially offset by increases in auto and home insurance premiums resulting from increased policy counts. Other revenues in 2007 increased $17 million, or 2%, to $724 million. This increase was due to the deconsolidation of a variable interest entity, resulting in $68 million in other revenues, and higher fees from variable annuity rider charges and cost of insurance charges for variable universal life ("VUL") and UL products. These increases were partially offset by decreases in other revenues related to certain consolidated limited partnerships and proceeds of $25 million in 2007, compared to $66 million in 2006, received from the sale of our defined contribution recordkeeping business. Banking and deposit interest expense in 2007 increased $4 million, or 2%. This increase was primarily due to the full year impact of Ameriprise Bank and higher rates of interest paid on certificates, partially offset by a decrease in certificate sales and balances. Expenses Total expenses reflect an increase in distribution expenses, benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses, the amortization of DAC, the impact of DAC unlocking and general and administrative expense. These increases were partially offset by decreases in separation costs and interest credited to fixed accounts. In 2007, we recorded net expense from DAC unlocking of $30 million, primarily comprised of $16 million in DAC amortization expense and a $14 million increase in benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses. In 2006, we recorded a net benefit from DAC unlocking of $25 million, primarily comprised of a $38 million benefit in DAC amortization expense, a $12 million increase in benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses and a $1 million decrease in contract and policy charges and other fees. The DAC unlocking net expense of $30 million in 2007 consisted of a $35 million increase in expense from updating product persistency assumptions, a $13 million decrease in expense from updating assumptions related to separate account fee levels and net variable annuity rider charges and an $8 million increase in expense from updating all other assumptions. The DAC unlocking net benefit in 2006 primarily reflected a $25 million benefit from modeling increased product persistency and a $15 million benefit from modeling improvements in mortality, offset by negative impacts of $8 million from modeling lower variable product fund fee revenue and $8 million from model changes related to variable life second to die insurance. Distribution expenses increased $329 million, or 19%. The increase primarily reflected higher commissions paid driven by overall business growth and increases in advisor productivity, as reflected by 18% growth in net revenue per advisor and higher assets under management. Interest credited to fixed accounts reflected a decrease related to annuities of $108 million primarily attributable to the continued decline in balances in fixed annuities and the fixed portion of variable annuities. Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses increased $47 million, or 4%. The cost of providing for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuity living benefits increased by $99 million, primarily due to changes in financial market factors. The increase in variable annuity living benefit costs was partially offset by a $6 million related change in DSIC, $23 million in lower VUL/UL claims and a $41 million decrease in benefit provisions for life contingent immediate annuities. The impact of DAC unlocking was an increase of $14 million in benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses in 2007, compared to $12 million in 2006. The increase in DAC amortization in 2007 reflected the impact of DAC unlocking related to amortization in each year. DAC unlocking resulted in an increase of $16 million in DAC amortization expense in 2007 compared to a decrease of $38 million in 2006. In addition, underlying increases to DAC amortization in 2007 were due to growth in business volumes and the recurring impact of adopting SOP 05 1, partially offset by a decrease in the amortization of DAC driven by the mark to market impact of variable annuity guaranteed living benefit riders. The increase in interest and debt expense in 2007 was due to the issuance of $500 million of our junior notes in May 2006. Separation costs incurred in 2007 were primarily associated with separating and reestablishing our technology platforms. In 2006, these costs were primarily associated with separating and reestablishing our technology platforms and establishing the Ameriprise Financial brand. All separation costs have been incurred as of December 31, 2007. 62 Table of Contents General and administrative expense in 2007 relative to 2006 increased 3%, or $78 million, to $2.6 billion as a result of increased expense related to professional and consultant fees representing increased spending on investment initiatives, expenses related to Ameriprise Bank, increased hedge fund performance compensation and an increase in technology related costs, partially offset by a decrease in expense in 2007 related to our defined contribution recordkeeping business which we sold in the second quarter of 2006. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate decreased to 19.9% in 2007 from 20.8% in 2006 primarily due to the impact of a $16 million tax benefit related to the finalization of certain income tax audits and a $19 million tax benefit relating to our plan to begin repatriating earnings of certain Threadneedle entities through dividends partially offset by lower levels of tax advantaged items relative to the level of pretax income. Results of Operations by Segment Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 The following tables present summary financial information by segment and reconciliation to consolidated totals derived from Note 26 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 Percent Share of Total 2006 Percent Share of Total (in millions, except percentages) Total net revenues Advice & Wealth Management $ 3,813 45 % $ 3,335 42 % Asset Management 1,762 21 1,751 22 Annuities 2,206 26 2,202 27 Protection 1,985 23 1,891 24 Corporate & Other 24 28 Eliminations (1,234 ) (15 ) (1,181 ) (15 ) Total net revenues $ 8,556 100 % $ 8,026 100 % Total expenses Advice & Wealth Management $ 3,528 47 % $ 3,139 43 % Asset Management 1,455 19 1,498 21 Annuities 1,783 24 1,738 24 Protection 1,500 20 1,457 20 Corporate & Other 508 7 578 8 Eliminations (1,234 ) (17 ) (1,181 ) (16 ) Total expenses $ 7,540 100 % $ 7,229 100 % Pretax income (loss) Advice & Wealth Management $ 285 28 % $ 196 25 % Asset Management 307 30 253 32 Annuities 423 42 464 58 Protection 485 48 434 54 Corporate & Other (484 ) (48 ) (550 ) (69 ) Pretax income $ 1,016 100 % $ 797 100 % 63  Table of Contents Advice & Wealth Management Our Advice & Wealth Management segment provides financial planning and advice, as well as full service brokerage and banking services, primarily to retail clients, through our financial advisors. Our affiliated advisors utilize a diversified selection of both proprietary and non proprietary products to help clients meet their financial needs. The following table presents the results of operations of our Advice & Wealth Management segment for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,350 $ 1,080 $ 270 25 % Distribution fees 2,218 2,034 184 9 Net investment income 399 377 22 6 Other revenues 76 62 14 23 Total revenues 4,043 3,553 490 14 Banking and deposit interest expense 230 218 12 6 Total net revenues 3,813 3,335 478 14 Expenses Distribution expenses 2,349 2,068 281 14 General and administrative expense 1,179 1,071 108 10 Total expenses 3,528 3,139 389 12 Pretax income $ 285 $ 196 $ 89 45 % Our Advice & Wealth Management segment reported pretax income of $285 million in 2007, up from $196 million in 2006. Net revenues Net revenues were $3.8 billion, an increase of $478 million, or 14%. Management and financial advice fees increased $270 million, or 25%, in 2007 as compared to 2006. The increase was led by net increases in wrap account assets of 23% from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007 and an increase in planning fees due to accelerated financial plan delivery standards. The growth in distribution fees of $184 million, or 9% from 2006, reflected an increase in cash sales and market appreciation. Net investment income increased $22 million, or 6%, in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase attributable to a full year of activity from Ameriprise Bank partially offset by lower average account balances in certificate products. Banking and deposit interest expense increased $12 million primarily due to a full year of activity of Ameriprise Bank and higher rates of interest paid on certificates partially offset by decreases in certificate sales and balances. Expenses Total expenses increased $389 million, or 12%. The increase in distribution expenses reflects higher commissions paid driven by increased sales volumes and higher assets under management. General and administrative expense increased due to higher staffing and vendor costs related to a full year of activity of Ameriprise Bank and increases in professional, consulting and technology fees, partially offset by a decline in legal and regulatory costs. 64 Table of Contents Asset Management Our Asset Management segment provides investment advice and investment products to retail and institutional clients. The following table presents the results of operations of our Asset Management segment for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1,362 $ 1,221 $ 141 12 % Distribution fees 322 336 (14 ) (4 ) Net investment income 48 63 (15 ) (24 ) Other revenues 50 157 (107 ) (68 ) Total revenues 1,782 1,777 5 Banking and deposit interest expense 20 26 (6 ) (23 ) Total net revenues 1,762 1,751 11 1 Expenses Distribution expenses 464 415 49 12 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 33 52 (19 ) (37 ) General and administrative expense 958 1,031 (73 ) (7 ) Total expenses 1,455 1,498 (43 ) (3 ) Pretax income $ 307 $ 253 $ 54 21 % Our Asset Management segment pretax income was $307 million in 2007, up $54 million, or 21%, from $253 million in 2006. Net revenues Net revenues increased $11 million, or 1%, in 2007 compared to 2006. Management and financial advice fees increased $141 million, or 12%, driven by market appreciation and positive flows in retail funds, the impact of market appreciation on Threadneedle assets, as well as an increase in Threadneedle hedge fund performance fees. Management and financial advice fees in 2006 included $27 million related to revenues from our defined contribution recordkeeping business that we sold in the second quarter of 2006. The expenses from the sale of our defined contribution recordkeeping business are primarily reflected in general and administrative expense in 2006. Distribution fees decreased slightly due to the continued trend of client movement into wrap accounts which have lower up front fees. Net investment income declined due to a decrease in interest income and a decline in the value of seed money investments. Other revenues declined due to a decrease in revenue related to certain consolidated limited partnerships and a decrease of $41 million for proceeds received from the sale of our defined contribution recordkeeping business in 2006. Expenses Total expenses decreased $43 million, or 3%. The increase in distribution expenses reflects higher distribution fees and marketing support costs driven by higher assets under management in RiverSource Funds. The decline in the amortization of DAC was driven by decreased B share sales resulting in fewer deferred commissions to be amortized. General and administrative expense, which primarily reflected allocated corporate and support function costs, increased as a result of Threadneedle hedge fund performance fee expense, professional fees and an increase in technology costs. These increases were more than offset by a decline in expense related to certain consolidated limited partnerships as well as a decrease in expense in 2007 related to our defined contribution recordkeeping business, which we sold in the second quarter of 2006. 65 Table of Contents Annuities Our Annuities segment provides variable and fixed annuity products of RiverSource Life companies to our retail clients primarily through our Advice & Wealth Management segment and to the retail clients of unaffiliated advisors through third party distribution. The following table presents the results of operations of our Annuities segment for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 510 $ 392 $ 118 30 % Distribution fees 267 213 54 25 Net investment income 1,196 1,409 (213 ) (15 ) Premiums 95 138 (43 ) (31 ) Other revenues 138 50 88 NM Total revenues 2,206 2,202 4 Banking and deposit interest expense Total net revenues 2,206 2,202 4 Expenses Distribution expenses 194 158 36 23 Interest credited to fixed accounts 706 810 (104 ) (13 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 329 280 49 18 Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 318 287 31 11 General and administrative expense 236 203 33 16 Total expenses 1,783 1,738 45 3 Pretax income $ 423 $ 464 $ (41 ) (9 )% NM Not Meaningful. Our Annuities segment pretax income was $423 million for 2007, down $41 million, or 9%, from $464 million for 2006. Net revenues Net revenues were $2.2 billion, an increase of $4 million in 2007 compared to 2006. Management and financial advice fees related to variable annuities increased in 2007, driven by positive flows and market appreciation. The increase in distribution fees was due primarily to an increase in marketing support payments driven by flows and market appreciation. These increases were partially offset by a decline in net investment income which was primarily attributable to declining average fixed account balances. The decline in premiums was attributable to lower volumes related to immediate annuities with life contingencies. The increase in other revenues was due to the deconsolidation of a variable interest entity, resulting in a gain of $49 million. Also contributing to the increase in other revenues was an increase in our guaranteed benefit rider fees on variable annuities, driven by volume increases. Expenses Total expenses increased $45 million, or 3%. The increase in distribution expenses reflected increased sales. The increase in amortization of DAC was due to growth in business volumes and the recurring impact of SOP 05 1, partially offset by a decrease in amortization driven by the mark to market impact of variable annuity guaranteed living benefit riders and the impact of DAC unlocking in 2007. General and administrative expense increased due to higher technology and overhead costs. The increases in expense were partially offset by a decrease in interest credited to fixed accounts, driven by declining accumulation values as well as decreases in life contingent immediate annuity benefit provisions. 66 Table of Contents Protection Our Protection segment offers a variety of protection products to address the identified protection and risk management needs of our retail clients including life, disability income and property casualty insurance. The following table presents the results of operations of our Protection segment for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 68 $ 56 $ 12 21 % Distribution fees 102 96 6 6 Net investment income 361 355 6 2 Premiums 1,002 954 48 5 Other revenues 453 431 22 5 Total revenues 1,986 1,892 94 5 Banking and deposit interest expense 1 1 Total net revenues 1,985 1,891 94 5 Expenses Distribution expenses 62 94 (32 ) (34 ) Interest credited to fixed accounts 141 145 (4 ) (3 ) Benefits, claims, losses and settlement expenses 850 852 (2 ) Amortization of deferred acquisition costs 200 133 67 50 General and administrative expense 247 233 14 6 Total expenses 1,500 1,457 43 3 Pretax income $ 485 $ 434 $ 51 12 % Our Protection segment pretax income was $485 million for 2007, up $51 million, or 12%, from $434 million in 2006. Net revenues Net revenues were $2.0 billion, an increase of $94 million, or 5%, from $1.9 billion in 2006. This increase was the result of an increase in auto and home premiums, driven by higher policy counts, an increase in management and financial advice fees, driven by an increase in fees from our VUL/UL products, and an increase in other revenues which was due primarily to the deconsolidation of a variable interest entity, resulting in a gain of $19 million. Expenses Total expenses were $1.5 billion, an increase of $43 million, or 3%, from 2006. The increase was due to an increase in the amortization of DAC, which was largely the result of DAC unlocking. DAC unlocking resulted in an increase of $20 million in amortization expense in 2007, compared to a decrease of $52 million in 2006. Additionally, in 2006, $28 million of additional DAC amortization was recognized as a result of a DAC adjustment related to auto and home insurance products. Also contributing to the increase in expense was an increase in general and administrative expense, which was due to increased technology and overhead costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in distribution expenses, which was due primarily to an increase in capitalized expense. 67 Table of Contents Corporate & Other The following table presents the results of operations of our Corporate & Other segment for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006: Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 Change (in millions, except percentages) Revenues Management and financial advice fees $ 1 $ $ 1 NM Net investment income 22 29 (7 ) (24 )% Other revenues 7 6 1 17 Total revenues 30 35 (5 ) (14 ) Banking and deposit interest expense 6 7 (1 ) (14 ) Total net revenues 24 28 (4 ) (14 ) Expenses Distribution expenses 1 1 NM Interest and debt expense 112 101 11 11 Separation costs 236 361 (125 ) (35 ) General and administrative expense 159 116 43 37 Total expenses 508 578 (70 ) (12 ) Pretax loss $ (484 ) $ (550 ) $ 66 12 % NM Not Meaningful. Our Corporate & Other pretax segment loss in 2007 was $484 million, an improvement of $66 million compared to a pretax segment loss of $550 million in 2006. The improvement was primarily due to a decrease in separation costs of $125 million, as the separation from American Express was completed in 2007. This improvement was offset partially by an increase in general and administrative expense which was the result of increased technology and overhead costs. Fair Value Measurements We report certain assets and liabilities at fair value; specifically, separate account assets, derivatives, embedded derivatives, properties held by our consolidated property funds, and most investments and cash equivalents. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS 157") defines fair value, provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value assumes the exchange of assets or liabilities occurs in orderly transactions. We include actual market prices, or observable inputs, in our fair value measurements to the extent available. Broker quotes are obtained when quotes from pricing services are not available. We validate prices obtained from third parties through a variety of means such as: price variance analysis, subsequent sales testing, stale price review, price comparison across pricing vendors and due diligence reviews of vendors. SFAS 157 does not require the use of market prices that are the result of a forced liquidation or distressed sale. Inactive Markets Through our own experience transacting in the marketplace and through discussions with our pricing vendors, we believe that the market for non agency residential mortgage backed securities is inactive. Indicators of inactive markets include: pricing services reliance on brokers or discounted cash flow analyses to provide prices, an increase in the disparity between prices provided by different pricing services for the same security, unreasonably large bid offer spreads and a significant decrease in the volume of trades relative to historical levels. In certain cases, this market inactivity has resulted in our applying valuation techniques that rely more on an income approach (discounted cash flows using market rates) than on a market approach (prices from pricing services). We consider market observable yields for other asset classes we consider to be of similar risk which includes nonperformance and liquidity for individual securities to set the discount rate for applying the income approach to certain non agency residential mortgage backed securities. The discount rates used for these securities at December 31, 2008 ranged from 13% to 22%. 68 Table of Contents At the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2008, $539 million of prime non agency residential mortgage backed securities were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy because management believes the market for these prime quality assets is now inactive. The loss recognized on these assets during the fourth quarter of 2008 was $72 million, of which $16 million was included in net investment income and $56 million was included in other comprehensive loss. Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Backed by Sub prime, Alt A or Prime Collateral Sub prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with weak credit profiles. Alt A mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers who have credit ratings above sub prime but may not conform to government sponsored standards. Prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers with good credit profiles. We have exposure to these types of loans predominantly through mortgage backed and asset backed securities. The slow down in the U.S. housing market, combined with relaxed underwriting standards by some originators, has recently led to higher delinquency and loss rates for some of these investments. Recent market conditions have increased the likelihood of other than temporary impairments for certain non agency residential mortgage backed securities. As a part of our risk management process, an internal rating system is used in conjunction with market data as the basis of analysis to assess the likelihood that we will not receive all contractual principal and interest payments for these investments. For the investments that are more at risk for impairment, we perform our own assessment of projected cash flows incorporating assumptions about default rates, prepayment speeds, loss severity, and geographic concentrations to determine if an other than temporary impairment should be recognized. Based on this analysis, other than non agency mortgage backed securities that had credit related impairments recorded in 2008, all contractual payments are expected to be received. The following table presents, as of December 31, 2008, our residential mortgage backed and asset backed securities backed by sub prime, Alt A or prime mortgage loans by credit rating and vintage year (in millions): AAA AA A BBB BB & Below Total Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Sub prime 2003 & prior $ 2 $ 1 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 2 $ 1 2004 17 14 7 3 11 6 35 23 2005 86 74 13 8 7 3 106 85 2006 78 69 28 18 14 14 120 101 2007 2 2 2 2 2008 10 8 10 8 Total Sub prime $ 193 $ 166 $ 48 $ 29 $ $ $ 18 $ 9 $ 16 $ 16 $ 275 $ 220 Alt A 2003 & prior $ 8 $ 7 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 8 $ 7 2004 96 74 15 11 111 85 2005 338 217 24 20 15 12 13 13 2 2 392 264 2006 111 104 29 29 26 26 35 34 8 8 209 201 2007 158 84 4 4 5 5 41 34 10 10 218 137 2008 Total Alt A $ 711 $ 486 $ 72 $ 64 $ 46 $ 43 $ 89 $ 81 $ 20 $ 20 $ 938 $ 694 Prime 2003 & prior $ 123 $ 101 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 123 $ 101 2004 160 131 37 21 2 2 199 154 2005 262 178 52 28 14 6 328 212 2006 5 4 6 2 11 6 2007 17 11 17 11 2008 19 31 19 31 Total Prime $ 569 $ 445 $ 95 $ 51 $ 31 $ 17 $ 2 $ 2 $ $ $ 697 $ 515 Grand Total $ 1,473 $ 1,097 $ 215 $ 144 $ 77 $ 60 $ 109 $ 92 $ 36 $ 36 $ 1,910 $ 1,429 Fair Value of Liabilities and Nonperformance Risk SFAS 157 also requires companies to measure the fair value of liabilities at the price that would be received to transfer the liability to a market participant (an exit price). Since there is not a market for our obligations of our variable annuity riders, we consider the assumptions participants in a hypothetical market would make to reflect an exit price. As a result, we adjust the valuation of variable annuity riders by updating certain contractholder assumptions, adding explicit margins to provide for profit, risk and expenses, and adjusting the rates used to discount expected cash flows to reflect a current market estimate of our nonperformance risk. The nonperformance risk adjustment is based on broker quotes for credit default swaps that are adjusted to estimate the risk of our life insurance company subsidiaries not fulfilling these liabilities. Consistent with general market conditions, this estimate resulted in a spread over the LIBOR swap curve as of December 31, 2008. As our estimate of this spread widens or tightens, the liability will decrease or increase. If this nonperformance credit spread moves to a zero 69 Table of Contents spread over the LIBOR swap curve, the reduction to net income would be approximately $235 million, net of DAC and DSIC amortization and income taxes, based on December 31, 2008 credit spreads. The nonperformance risk for our derivatives is managed and mitigated primarily through the use of master netting arrangements and collateral arrangements. As of December 31, 2008, any deterioration in our derivative counterparties credit would not materially impact our financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We maintained substantial liquidity during 2008. At December 31, 2008, we had $6.2 billion in cash and cash equivalents compared to $3.8 billion at December 31, 2007. Approximately $1.6 billion of the increase in cash and cash equivalents was from increases in collateral received from derivative counterparties as our living benefits hedge portfolio gained in value. Excluding the collateral balances, cash and cash equivalents were $4.4 billion and $3.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We have additional liquidity available through an unsecured revolving credit facility for $750 million that expires in September 2010. Under the terms of the underlying credit agreement, we can increase this facility to $1.0 billion. Available borrowings under this facility are reduced by any outstanding letters of credit. We have had no borrowings under this credit facility and had $2 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2008. We believe cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances and our availability of revolver borrowings will be sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs. The following table summarizes the ratings for Ameriprise Financial, Inc. ("Ameriprise Financial") and certain of its subsidiaries as of the date of this filing: A.M. Best Company Standard & Poors Rating Services Moodys Investors Service Fitch Ratings Ltd. Claims Paying Ratings RiverSource Life A+ AA Aa3 AA IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company A N/R N/R N/R Credit Ratings Ameriprise Financial, Inc. a A A3 A On January 29, 2009, Standard & Poors Ratings Services ("S&P") and Moodys Investors Service ("Moodys") affirmed the ratings of Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and RiverSource Life citing excellent capitalization and solid financial flexibility. At the same time, both S&P and Moodys revised their outlook on Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and RiverSource Life from stable to negative citing diminished earnings power resulting from the challenging equity and credit markets. On July 10, 2008, S&P raised its counterparty credit rating on Ameriprise Financial, Inc. to A from A and indicated its ratings outlook on our company as stable, citing our strong balance sheet and strong cash coverage of our stable life insurance and asset management operations, supported by an innovative financial advisory distribution channel. These positive factors are somewhat offset by sensitivity to equity market and debt market volatility and competitive pressure in our key segments. At the same time, S&P affirmed its AA counterparty credit and financial strength ratings on our life insurance subsidiaries, RiverSource Life and RiverSource Life of NY. Our capital transactions in 2008 and 2007 primarily related to the repurchase of our common stock, dividends paid to our shareholders and the repurchase of debt. Dividends from Subsidiaries Ameriprise Financial is primarily a parent holding company for the operations carried out by our wholly owned subsidiaries. Because of our holding company structure, our ability to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends on our common stock, substantially depends upon the receipt of dividends or return of capital from our subsidiaries, particularly our life insurance subsidiary, RiverSource Life, our face amount certificate subsidiary, Ameriprise Certificate Company ("ACC"), our retail introducing broker dealer subsidiary, Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc. ("AFSI"), our clearing broker dealer subsidiary, American Enterprise Investment Services, Inc. ("AEIS"), our auto and home insurance subsidiary, IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company ("IDS Property Casualty"), doing business as Ameriprise Auto & Home Insurance, Threadneedle, RiverSource Service Corporation and our investment advisory company, RiverSource Investments. The 70 Table of Contents payment of dividends by many of our subsidiaries is restricted and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements. Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements for our wholly owned subsidiaries subject to regulatory capital requirements were as follows: December 31, Actual Capital Regulatory Capital Requirements 2008 2007 2008 2007 (in millions) RiverSource Life(1)(2) $ 2,722 $ 3,017 $ 551 $ 442 RiverSource Life of NY(1)(2) 229 288 58 34 IDS Property Casualty(1)(3) 436 424 124 117 Ameriprise Insurance Company(1)(3) 47 49 2 2 ACC(4)(5) 243 210 264 201 Threadneedle(6) 227 232 140 149 Ameriprise Bank, FSB(7) 113 161 123 127 AFSI(3)(4) 132 102 # # Ameriprise Captive Insurance Company 20 16 9 7 Ameriprise Trust Company(3) 35 60 28 36 AEIS(3)(4) 74 56 4 5 Securities America, Inc.(3)(4) 17 13 # # RiverSource Distributors, Inc.(3)(4) 41 30 # # RiverSource Fund Distributors, Inc.(3)(4) 7 1 RiverSource Services, Inc.(3)(4) 1 # Ameriprise Advisor Services, Inc.(3)(4) 22 5 #Amounts are less than $1 million. (1)Actual capital is determined on a statutory basis. (2)Regulatory capital requirement is based on the statutory risk based capital filing. (3)Regulatory capital requirement is based on the applicable regulatory requirement, calculated as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. (4)Actual capital is determined on an adjusted GAAP basis. (5)ACC is required to hold capital in compliance with the Minnesota Department of Commerce and SEC capital requirements. As of December 31, 2008, ACCs capital dropped to 4.61% and 4.97% per the Minnesota Department of Commerce and SEC capital requirements, respectively. Ameriprise Financial promptly provided additional capital to ACC in January 2009 to bring capital back above the 5% requirement. Ameriprise Financial and ACC entered into a Capital Support Agreement on March 2, 2009, pursuant to which Ameriprise Financial agrees to commit such capital to ACC as is necessary to satisfy applicable minimum capital requirements, up to a maximum commitment of $115 million. (6)Actual capital and regulatory capital requirements are determined in accordance with U.K. regulatory legislation. The actual capital and the regulatory capital requirement for December 31, 2008 represent managements preliminary internal assessment of the risk based requirement specified by FSA regulations. The actual capital and regulatory capital requirement for December 31, 2007 represent expense based FSA requirements in force at that time. (7)Ameriprise Bank is required to hold capital in compliance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) policy regarding de novo depository institutions, which requires a Tier 1 (core) capital ratio of not less than 8% during its first three years of operations. As of December 31, 2008, Ameriprise Banks Tier 1 core capital dropped to 7.36%. Ameriprise Financial promptly provided additional capital to Ameriprise Bank in January 2009 to bring the Tier 1 core capital back above the 8% de novo requirement. In addition to the particular regulations restricting dividend payments and establishing subsidiary capitalization requirements, we take into account the overall health of the business, capital levels and risk management considerations in determining a dividend strategy for payments to our company from our subsidiaries, and in deciding to use cash to make capital contributions to our subsidiaries. 71  Table of Contents In 2008, the parent holding company received cash dividends from its subsidiaries of $1.1 billion and contributed cash to its subsidiaries of $638 million, of which $441 million was in support of acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2007, subsidiaries paid cash dividends of $1.6 billion and received $40 million in contributions. In 2006, the parent holding company received cash dividends from its subsidiaries of $670 million and paid contributions of $220 million. The following table sets out the cash dividends paid to the parent holding company, net of cash capital contributions made by the parent holding company, and the dividend capacity (amount within the limitations of the applicable regulatory authorities as further described below) for the following subsidiaries: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Cash dividends paid/(contributions made), net RiverSource Life $ 775 $ 900 $ 300 Ameriprise Bank (82 ) (172 ) AEIS 10 108 82 ACC (115 ) 70 70 RiverSource Investments (336 ) 100 60 RiverSource Service Corporation 15 22 60 Threadneedle 52 50 43 Ameriprise Trust Company 16 12 42 Securities America Financial Corporation (25 ) (17 ) (25 ) AFSI 140 100 (20 ) IDS Property Casualty 50 185 6 Other 1 (12 ) 4 Total $ 501 $ 1,518 $ 450 Dividend capacity RiverSource Life(1) $ 523 $ 469 $ 328 Ameriprise Bank AEIS(2) 74 159 114 ACC(2) 79 93 RiverSource Investments 164 279 173 RiverSource Service Corporation 16 26 68 Threadneedle 111 134 63 Ameriprise Trust Company 11 22 4 Securities America Financial Corporation 17 AFSI(2) 272 201 84 IDS Property Casualty(3) 42 52 46 Other 11 9 8 Total dividend capacity $ 1,241 $ 1,430 $ 981 (1)RiverSource Life dividends in excess of statutory unassigned funds require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, RiverSource Lifes primary regulator, and are subject to potential disapproval. In addition, dividends whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater of (1) the previous years statutory net gain from operations or (2) 10% of the previous year end statutory capital and surplus are referred to as "extraordinary dividends." Extraordinary dividends also require advance notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce, and are subject to potential disapproval. For dividends exceeding these thresholds, RiverSource Life provided notice to the Minnesota Department of Commerce and received responses indicating that it did not object to the payment of these dividends. (2)The dividend capacity for ACC is based on capital held in excess of regulatory requirements. For AFSI and AEIS, the dividend capacity is based on an internal model used to determine the availability of dividends, while maintaining net capital at a level sufficiently in excess of minimum levels defined by Securities and Exchange Commission rules. (3)The dividend capacity for IDS Property Casualty is based on the lesser of (1) 10% of the previous year end capital and surplus or (2) the greater of (a) net income (excluding realized gains) of the previous year or (b) the aggregate net income of the previous three years excluding realized gains less any dividends paid within the first two years of the three year period. Dividends that, together with the amount of other distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceed this statutory limitation are referred to as "extraordinary dividends" and require advance notice to the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Wisconsin, the primary state regulator of IDS Property Casualty, and are subject to potential disapproval. The portion of dividends paid by IDS Property Casualty in 2007 in excess of the dividend capacity set forth in the table above were extraordinary dividends and received approval from the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Wisconsin. 72 Table of Contents Share Repurchases, Debt Repurchases and Dividends Paid to Shareholders In 2008, we repurchased 12.7 million shares at an average price of $48.26 under our share repurchase program. Since inception of the share repurchase program in January 2006, we have purchased 39.3 million shares at an average price of $51.72. At December 31, 2008, there was approximately $1.3 billion remaining to repurchase shares under authorizations approved by our Board of Directors. The share repurchase programs do not require the purchase of any minimum number of shares, and depending on market conditions and factors, these purchases may be commenced or suspended at any time without prior notice. We used our existing working capital to fund these share repurchases. In light of the current market environment, we have temporarily suspended our stock repurchase program. We may resume activity under our stock repurchase program and begin repurchasing shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time without notice. We reserve the right to suspend any such repurchases and to resume later repurchasing at any time, and expressly disclaim any obligation to maintain or lift any such suspension. Pursuant to the Ameriprise Financial 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan, we reacquired 0.5 million shares of our common stock in 2008 through the surrender of restricted shares upon vesting and paid in the aggregate $24 million related to the holders income tax obligations on the vesting date. In 2008, we extinguished $43 million of our junior notes. In the future, we may from time to time seek to retire or purchase additional outstanding debt through cash purchases in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, without prior notice. Such repurchases, if any, will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The amounts involved could be material. We paid regular quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders totaling $143 million, $133 million and $108 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. On January 28, 2009, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.17 per common share. The dividend was paid on February 20, 2009 to our shareholders of record at the close of business on February 6, 2009. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $2.0 billion compared to $724 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, an increase of $1.3 billion. The increase was driven by $1.6 billion in additional collateral held related to derivative instruments at December 31, 2008 compared to the prior year. This increase was partially offset by the impact of advancing approximately $300 million to our clients to fund their critical liquidity needs following the freeze of funds in the Reserves Primary Fund and Government Fund, as well as the costs associated with supporting RiverSource 2a 7 money market funds and an increase in taxes paid compared to the prior year period. Reduced cash inflows related to lower fee revenue were offset by lower cash outflows due to lower expenses, including the completion of separation costs in 2007 and a $100 million settlement paid in 2007. Net cash provided by operating activities was $724 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $801 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $77 million. The decrease was primarily driven by a $100 million settlement paid in 2007. Investing Activities Our investing activities primarily relate to our Available for Sale investment portfolio. Further, this activity is significantly affected by the net outflows of our investment certificate, fixed annuity and universal life products reflected in financing activities. Net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $15 million compared to $4.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007, a cash flow decrease of $4.6 billion. Purchases of Available for Sale securities increased $1.9 billion and sales of Available for Sale securities decreased $3.2 billion compared to the prior year period, resulting in a $5.1 billion decrease to cash provided by investing activities. We also paid cash of $563 million for acquisitions in the fourth quarter of 2008, net of cash acquired. These decreases were partially offset by a $1.0 billion increase in maturities, sinking fund payments and calls of Available for Sale securities compared to the prior year period. Net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $4.6 billion compared to $3.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006, a cash flow improvement of $1.1 billion. Net cash proceeds from Available for Sale securities increased $1.8 billion compared to the prior year period. This increase in cash was partially offset by net cash provided by the acquisition of bank deposits and loans in 2006. 73 Table of Contents Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $429 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of $4.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007, an increase in cash of $4.7 billion. Cash proceeds from additions of investment certificates and banking time deposits increased $1.9 billion, primarily due to an increase in sales of investment certificates as a result of the market environment, as well as a sales promotion we began in April 2008. Net cash from policyholder and contractholder account values increased $2.9 billion from the prior year period primarily due to $2.2 billion of lower net outflows in fixed annuities as a result of the market environment and sales initiatives. Cash used for the repurchase of our common stock decreased $351 million compared to the prior year period due to fewer shares repurchased in 2008 at a lower average price. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we temporarily suspended our stock repurchase program in light of the current market environment. Cash provided by other banking deposits decreased $520 million due to lower Ameriprise Bank activity in 2008. Net cash used in financing activities was $4.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to $4.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006, a decrease of $228 million. Cash used for the repurchase of our common stock increased $511 million compared to 2006. Cash proceeds from the issuance of debt decreased $516 million, partially offset by a $230 million reduction in principal repayments of debt compared to the prior year period. The change in other banking deposits resulted in an increase in cash of $614 million as a result of higher Ameriprise Bank activity in 2007. Contractual Commitments The contractual obligations identified in the table below include both our on and off balance sheet transactions that represent material expected or contractually committed future obligations. Payments due by period as of December 31, 2008 are as follows: Payments due in year ending Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and Thereafter (in millions) Balance Sheet: Debt(1) $ 2,027 $ $ 800 $ 64 $ 1,163 Insurance and annuities(2) 47,241 2,994 4,858 4,610 34,779 Investment certificates(3) 4,874 4,554 320 Deferred premium options obligations(4) 876 134 247 198 297 Off Balance Sheet: Lease obligations 722 113 174 133 302 Purchase obligations(5) 54 23 21 10 Interest on debt(6) 2,338 119 190 152 1,877 Total $ 58,132 $ 7,937 $ 6,610 $ 5,167 $ 38,418 (1)See Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our debt. (2)These scheduled payments are represented by reserves of approximately $28.8 billion at December 31, 2008 and are based on interest credited, mortality, morbidity, lapse, surrender and premium payment assumptions. Actual payment obligations may differ if experience varies from these assumptions. Separate account liabilities have been excluded as associated contractual obligations would be met by separate account assets. (3)The payments due by year are based on contractual term maturities. However, contractholders have the right to redeem the investment certificates earlier and at their discretion subject to surrender charges, if any. Redemptions are most likely to occur in periods of substantial increases in interest rates. (4)The fair value of these deferred premium options included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet was $795 million as of December 31, 2008. See Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our deferred premium options. (5)The purchase obligation amounts include expected spending by period under contracts that were in effect at December 31, 2008. Total termination payments associated with these purchase obligations were $41 million as of December 31, 2008. (6)Interest on debt was estimated based on rates in effect as of December 31, 2008. 74 Table of Contents Total loan funding commitments were $734 million at December 31, 2008. For additional information relating to these contractual commitments, see Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes in our off balance sheet arrangements. Forward Looking Statements This report contains forward looking statements that reflect managements plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those described in these forward looking statements. The Company has made various forward looking statements in this report. Examples of such forward looking statements include: statements of the Companys plans, intentions, expectations, objectives or goals, including those relating to asset flows, mass affluent client acquisition strategy, financial advisor retention, general and administrative costs, consolidated tax rate, and excess capital position; other statements about future economic performance, the performance of equity markets and interest rate variations and the economic performance of the United States and of global markets; and statements of assumptions underlying such statements. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "optimistic," "intend," "plan," "aim," "will," "may," "should," "could," "would," "likely" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: changes in the valuations, liquidity and volatility in the interest rate, credit default, equity market, and foreign exchange environments; changes in the litigation and regulatory environment, including ongoing legal proceedings and regulatory actions, the frequency and extent of legal claims threatened or initiated by clients, other persons and regulators, and developments in regulation and legislation; investment management performance and consumer acceptance of the Companys products; effects of competition in the financial services industry and changes in product distribution mix and distribution channels; the companys capital structure, including indebtedness, limitations on subsidiaries to pay dividends, and the extent, manner, terms and timing of any share or debt repurchases management may effect; as well as the opinions of rating organizations and other analysts and the reactions of market participants or the Companys regulators, advisors or customers in response to any change or prospect of change in such opinion; risks of default by issuers or guarantors of investments the Company owns or by counterparties to hedge, derivative, insurance or reinsurance arrangements; experience deviations from the Companys assumptions regarding such risks, the evaluations or the prospect of changes in evaluations of such third parties published by rating organizations or other analysts, and the reactions of other market participants in response to any such evaluation or prospect changes in evaluation; experience deviations from the Companys assumptions regarding morbidity, mortality and persistency in certain annuity and insurance products, or from assumptions regarding market volatility underlying our hedges on guaranteed benefit annuity riders; the impacts of the Companys efforts to improve distribution economics and to grow third party distribution of its products; the Companys ability to realize the financial, operating and business fundamental benefits or to obtain regulatory approvals regarding integration we plan for the acquisitions we have completed; the ability to realize benefits from reengineering and tax planning; changes in the capital markets and competitive environments induced or resulting from the partial or total ownership or other support by central governments of certain financial services firms or financial assets; and 75  Table of Contents general economic and political factors, including consumer confidence in the economy, the ability and inclination of consumers generally to invest as well as their ability to and inclination to invest in financial instruments and products other than cash and cash equivalents, the costs of products and services the Company consumes in the conduct of its business, and applicable legislation and regulation and changes therein, including tax laws, tax treaties, fiscal and central government treasury policy, and policies regarding the financial services industry and publicly held firms, and regulatory rulings and pronouncements. Management cautions you that the foregoing list of factors is not exhaustive. There may also be other risks that management is unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Management undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward looking statements.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest rate, equity price, foreign currency and credit risk are the market risks to which we have material exposure. Equity market and interest rate fluctuations can have a significant impact on our results of operations, primarily due to the effects they have on the asset management and other asset based fees we earn, the spread income generated on our annuities, banking, and face amount certificate products and UL insurance products, the value of DAC and DSIC assets associated with variable annuity and variable UL products, the values of liabilities for guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities and the values of derivatives held to hedge these benefits. Changes in both the equity and fixed income markets during 2008 have affected our market risk position. These changes resulted in lower asset values against which we take asset based management and distribution fees as well as increases in our stated liabilities for variable annuity guaranteed benefits. The guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities are GMWB, GMAB, GMDB and GMIB options. Each of the guaranteed benefits mentioned above guarantees payouts to the annuity holder under certain specific conditions regardless of the performance of the underlying investment assets. To evaluate interest rate and equity price risk we perform sensitivity testing which measures the impact on pretax income from the sources listed below for a 12 month period following a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates and a hypothetical 10% decline in equity markets. Due to the market conditions in the second half of 2008, we also performed sensitivity testing using a hypothetical 20% decline in equity markets. Equity price risk includes absolute market level and implied market volatility changes. The estimates of net equity price risk exposure presented below assume no changes in implied market volatility. The numbers below show our estimate of the pretax impact of these hypothetical market moves, net of hedging, as of December 31, 2008. DAC and DSIC changes are shown based on the impact of projecting lower profits as a result of the market declines as well as linked specifically to the changes in our variable annuity riders. Following the table is a discussion by source of risk and the portfolio management techniques and derivative instruments we use to mitigate these risks. Equity Price Exposure to Pretax Income Equity Price Decline 10% Before Hedge Impact Hedge Impact Net Impact (in millions) Asset based management and distribution fees $ (94 ) N/A $ (94 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(1) (160 ) N/A (160 ) Variable annuity riders: GMDB and GMIB (67 ) N/A (67 ) GMWB (162 ) 179 17 GMAB (38 ) 35 (3 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(2) N/A N/A (5 ) Total variable annuity riders (267 ) 214 (58 ) Equity indexed annuities 2 (2 ) Stock market certificates 2 (2 ) Total $ (517 ) $ 210 $ (312 ) 76 Table of Contents Equity Price Exposure to Pretax Income Equity Price Decline 20% Before Hedge Impact Hedge Impact Net Impact (in millions) Asset based management and distribution fees $ (187 ) N/A $ (187 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(1) (238 ) N/A (238 ) Variable annuity riders: GMDB and GMIB (116 ) N/A (116 ) GMWB (352 ) 371 19 GMAB (81 ) 74 (7 ) DAC and DSIC amortization(2) N/A N/A (2 ) Total variable annuity riders (549 ) 445 (106 ) Equity indexed annuities 3 (3 ) Stock market certificates 3 (3 ) Total $ (968 ) $ 439 $ (531 ) Interest Rate Exposure to Pretax Income Interest Rate Increase 100 Basis Points Before Hedge Impact Hedge Impact Net Impact (in millions) Asset based management and distribution fees $ (15 ) N/A $ (15 ) Variable annuity riders: GMWB 342 (439 ) (97 ) GMAB 64 (51 ) 13 DAC and DSIC amortization(2) N/A N/A 51 Total variable annuity riders 406 (490 ) (33 ) Fixed annuities, fixed portion of variable annuities and fixed insurance products (3 ) N/A (3 ) Flexible savings and other fixed rate savings products 3 N/A 3 Total $ 391 $ (490 ) $ (48 ) N/A Not Applicable. (1)Market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization resulting from lower projected profits. (2)Market impact on DAC and DSIC amortization related to variable annuity riders is modeled net of hedge impact. The above results compare to estimated negative impacts of $9 million related to a 100 basis point increase in interest rates and $141 million related to a 10% equity market decline as of December 31, 2007. The larger impact in 2008 is a result of market dislocation in 2008 and changes to our valuation models. The discount rates and credit spreads we use to value certain of our investments have been negatively impacted by the current market. This has led to greater pretax loss projections related to our variable annuity riders, partially offset by a lower impact to our asset based management and distribution fees, primarily as a result of lower asset values. In addition, managements action to constrain the near term growth rate for equities in the DAC models results in a greater pretax loss under the above equity scenarios. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated above as they are based on a number of estimates and assumptions. These include assuming the composition of invested assets and liabilities does not change in the 12 month period following the hypothetical market decline, that there are no changes in implied market volatility and the increase in interest rates produces a parallel shift in the yield curve. The selection of a 100 basis point interest rate increase as well as 10% and 20% equity market declines should not be construed as a prediction of future market events. Asset Based Management and Distribution Fees We earn asset based management fees on our owned separate account assets and certain of our managed assets. At December 31, 2008, the value of these assets was $44.7 billion and $200 billion, respectively. We also earn distribution fees 77 Table of Contents on our managed assets. These sources of revenue are subject to both interest rate and equity price risk since the value of these assets and the fees they earn fluctuate inversely with interest rates and directly with equity prices. We do not hedge the interest rate or equity price risk of this exposure. DAC and DSIC Amortization For annuity and universal life products, DAC and DSIC are amortized on the basis of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are a proxy for pretax income prior to the recognition of DAC and DSIC amortization expense. When events occur that reduce or increase current period estimated gross profits, DAC and DSIC amortization expense is typically reduced or increased as well, somewhat mitigating the impact of the event on pretax income. Variable Annuity Riders The guaranteed benefits associated with our variable annuities are GMWB, GMAB, GMDB and GMIB options. Each of the guaranteed benefits mentioned above guarantees payouts to the annuity holder under certain specific conditions regardless of the performance of the underlying assets. The total value of all variable annuity contracts has decreased from $57.2 billion at December 31, 2007 to $43.3 billion at December 31, 2008. These contract values include GMWB and GMAB contracts which have decreased from $13.1 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31, 2007 to $12.7 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2008, the reserves for the GMWB and GMAB were $1.5 billion and $367 million compared to reserves of $136 million and $33 million at December 31, 2007, respectively. The increase in the reserves for the GMWB and GMAB reflect the changes in economic factors impacting the mark to market value of the guarantees. At December 31, 2008, the reserve for the other variable annuity guaranteed benefits, GMDB and GMIB, was $67 million compared to $27 million at December 31, 2007. As a means of economically hedging our obligations under GMWB and GMAB provisions, we purchase equity put and call options, enter into interest rate swaps, swaptions and trade equity futures contracts. See Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on derivative instruments. Equity Price Risk Variable Annuity Riders The variable annuity guaranteed benefits guarantee payouts to the annuity holder under certain specific conditions regardless of the performance of the investment assets. For this reason, when equity markets decline, the returns from the separate account assets coupled with guaranteed benefit fees from annuity holders may not be sufficient to fund expected payouts. In that case, reserves must be increased with a negative impact to earnings. The core derivative instruments with which we hedge the equity price risk of our GMWB and GMAB are longer dated put and call derivatives; these core instruments are supplemented with equity futures and total return swaps. Interest Rate Risk Variable Annuity Riders The GMAB and the non life contingent benefits associated with the GMWB provisions create embedded derivatives which are carried at fair value separately from the underlying host variable annuity contract. Changes in fair value of the GMWB and GMAB are recorded through earnings with fair value calculated based on projected, discounted cash flows over the life of the contract, including projected, discounted benefits and fees. Increases in interest rates reduce the fair value of the GMWB and GMAB liabilities. The GMWB and GMAB interest rate exposure is hedged with a portfolio of longer dated put and call derivatives, interest rate swaps and swaptions. These derivatives are an alternative to the more customized equity puts we previously used. We have entered into interest rate swaps according to risk exposures along maturities, thus creating both fixed rate payor and variable rate payor terms. If interest rates were to increase, we would have to pay more to the swap counterparty, and the fair value of our equity puts would decrease, resulting in a negative impact to our pretax income. Fixed Annuities, Fixed Portion of Variable Annuities and Fixed Insurance Products Interest rate exposures arise primarily with respect to the fixed account portion of annuity and insurance products of RiverSource Life companies and their investment portfolios. We guarantee an interest rate to the holders of these products. Premiums and deposits collected from clients are primarily invested in fixed rate securities to fund the client credited rate with the spread between the rate earned from investments and the rate credited to clients recorded as earned income. Client liabilities and investment assets generally differ as it relates to basis, repricing or maturity characteristics. Rates credited to clients accounts generally reset at shorter intervals than the yield on the underlying investments. Therefore, in an increasing 78 Table of Contents rate environment, higher interest rates are reflected in crediting rates to clients sooner than in rates earned on invested assets resulting in a reduced spread between the two rates, reduced earned income and a negative impact on pretax income. We had $26.8 billion in reserves in future policy benefits and claims on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2008 to recognize liabilities created by these products. As of December 31, 2008, we did not hedge this exposure. As of December 31, 2007, we hedged part of this exposure through the use of swaptions. As of December 31, 2007, the outstanding derivatives were not significant. Flexible Savings and Other Fixed Rate Savings Products We have interest rate risk from our flexible savings and other fixed rate savings products. These products are primarily investment certificates generally ranging in amounts from $1,000 to $1 million with terms ranging from three to 36 months, as well as other savings products sold through Ameriprise Bank. We guarantee an interest rate to the holders of these products. Payments collected from clients are primarily invested in fixed rate securities to fund the client credited rate with the spread between the rate earned from investments and the rate credited to clients recorded as earned income. Client liabilities and investment assets generally differ as it relates to basis, repricing or maturity characteristics. Rates credited to clients generally reset at shorter intervals than the yield on underlying investments. This exposure is not currently hedged although we monitor our investment strategy and make modifications based on our changing liabilities and the expected rate environment. At December 31, 2008, we had $3.9 billion in reserves related to our fixed rate certificate products and $1.4 billion in reserves related to our banking products. Equity Indexed Annuities Our equity indexed annuity product is a single premium annuity issued with an initial term of seven years. The annuity guarantees the contractholder a minimum return of 3% on 90% of the initial premium or end of prior term accumulation value upon renewal plus a return that is linked to the performance of the S&P 500 Index. The equity linked return is based on a participation rate initially set at between 50% and 90% of the S&P 500 Index, which is guaranteed for the initial seven year term when the contract is held to full term. Of the $29.3 billion in future policy benefits and claims at December 31, 2008, $244 million relates to the liabilities created by this product. In 2007, we discontinued new sales of equity indexed annuities. See Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on derivative instruments. Equity Price Risk Equity Indexed Annuities The equity linked return to investors creates equity price risk as the amount credited depends on changes in equity markets. To hedge this exposure, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of equity indexed annuities is used to purchase futures, calls and puts which generate returns to replicate what we must credit to client accounts. In conjunction with purchasing puts we also write puts. Pairing purchased puts with written puts allows us to better match the characteristics of the liability. Interest Rate Risk Equity Indexed Annuities Most of the proceeds from the sale of equity indexed annuities are invested in fixed income securities with the return on those investments intended to fund the 3% guarantee. We earn income from the difference between the return earned on invested assets and the 3% guarantee rate credited to customer accounts. The spread between return earned and amount credited is affected by changes in interest rates. Stock Market Certificates Stock market certificates are purchased for amounts generally from $1,000 to $1 million for terms of 52 weeks which can be extended to a maximum of 20 years. For each term the certificate holder can choose to participate 100% in any percentage increase in the S&P 500 Index up to a maximum return or choose partial participation in any increase in the S&P 500 Index plus a fixed rate of interest guaranteed in advance. If partial participation is selected, the total of equity linked return and guaranteed rate of interest cannot exceed the maximum return. Reserves for our stock market certificates are included in customer deposits on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Of the $8.2 billion in customer deposits at December 31, 2008, $914 million pertain to stock market certificates. Equity Price Risk Stock Market Certificates As with the equity indexed annuities, the equity linked return to investors creates equity price risk exposure. We seek to minimize this exposure with purchased futures and call spreads that replicate what we must credit to client accounts. See Note 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on derivative instruments. 79 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk Stock Market Certificates Stock market certificates have some interest rate risk as changes in interest rates affect the fair value of the payout to be made to the certificate holder. Foreign Currency Risk We have foreign currency risk through our net investment in foreign subsidiaries and our operations in foreign countries. We are primarily exposed to changes in British Pounds ("GBP") related to our net investment in Threadneedle which had $438 million of GBP exposure at December 31, 2008. Our primary exposure related to operations in foreign countries is to the GBP and the Indian Rupee. We monitor the foreign exchange rates that we have exposure to and enter into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate risk when economically prudent. At December 31, 2008, the notional value of outstanding contracts and our remaining foreign currency risk related to operations in foreign countries were not material. Interest Rate Risk on External Debt Interest rate risk on our external debt is not material. The interest rate on the $1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes is fixed and the interest rate on the $457 million of junior notes is fixed until June 1, 2016. We have floating rate debt of $6 million related to our municipal bond inverse floater certificates which is not hedged but on which the interest rate risk to pretax income is not material. We have floating rate debt of $64 million related to certain consolidated property funds, a portion of which is hedged using interest rate swaps which effectively convert the floating rates to a fixed rate. Credit Risk We are exposed to credit risk within our investment portfolio, which includes loans, and through derivative and reinsurance counterparties. Credit risk relates to the uncertainty of an obligors continued ability to make timely payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the instrument or contract. Our potential derivative credit exposure to each counterparty is aggregated with all of our other exposures to the counterparty to determine compliance with established credit guidelines at the time we enter into a derivative transaction. We manage credit risk through fundamental credit analysis, issuer and industry concentration guidelines, and diversification requirements. These guidelines and oversight of credit risk are managed through our comprehensive enterprise risk management program that includes members of senior management. We manage the risk of adverse default experience on these investments by applying disciplined fundamental credit analysis and underwriting standards, prudently limiting exposures to lower quality, higher yielding investments, and diversifying exposures by issuer, industry, region and property type. For each counterparty or borrowing entity and its affiliates, our exposures from all types of transactions are aggregated and managed in relation to guidelines set by risk tolerance thresholds and external and internal rating quality. We remain exposed to occasional adverse cyclical economic downturns during which default rates may be significantly higher than the long term historical average used in pricing. Credit exposures on derivative contracts may take into account netting arrangements and collateral arrangements. Before executing a new type of structure of derivative contract, we determine the variability of the contracts potential market and credit exposures and whether such variability might reasonably be expected to create exposure to a counterparty in excess of established limits. Additionally, we reinsure a portion of the insurance risks associated with our life, disability income, long term care and auto and home insurance products through reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurance companies. Reinsurance is used in order to limit losses, reduce exposure to large risks and provide additional capacity for future growth. To manage exposure to losses from reinsurer insolvencies, the financial condition of reinsurers is evaluated prior to entering into new reinsurance treaties and on a periodic basis during the terms of the treaties. Our insurance companies remain primarily liable as the direct insurers on all risks reinsured. As of December 31, 2008, our largest reinsurance credit risk related to a long term care coinsurance arrangement between us and a life insurance subsidiary of Genworth Financial, Inc. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on reinsurance. 80  Table of Contents   
 
